

601 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Mother, 17, Is Charged In Beating of Her Toddler

DATELINE: ELIZABETH

 BODY:
A 17-year-old woman accused of beating and shaking her infant so badly that the child is paralyzed on one side and has brain damage has been charged with delinquency, the Union County Prosecutor's office said yesterday.
The infant, an 18-month-old girl, was treated for breathing problems at St. Elizabeth Hospital on Monday night and showed no signs of abuse, said Kenneth Siegel, an assistant Union County prosecutor. But she was brought back to the hospital on Tuesday evening with bruises and belt marks, and was moved to Beth Israel Medical Center in Newark, where doctors determined that she had suffered a stroke induced by shaking, Mr. Siegel said. 
 Doctors do not know how much of the damage will be permanent, Mr. Siegel said.
The mother, who was not identified, is pregnant, unemployed and not in school, he said. She was arrested on Wednesday and is being held in the county juvenile detention center. She lives in Elizabeth with her father and a sister, Mr. Siegel said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: UNION COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE (90%); UNION COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNION COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE (90%); UNION COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ELIZABETH (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT; SHAKEN BABY SYNDROME NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); CHILD ABUSE (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (88%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (88%); HEAD INJURIES (88%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); ARRESTS (73%); STROKES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1997



602 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 7; Page 9; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1844 words

HEADLINE: No There There

BYLINE: By Jackson Lears; Jackson Lears teaches history at Rutgers University and is at work on a book about grace, luck and fortune in American cultural history.

 BODY:

FORTRESS AMERICA
 Gated Communities
 in the United States.
 By Edward J. Blakely
 and Mary Gail Snyder.
 Illustrated. 209 pp.
 Washington:
 Brookings Institution Press/
 Lincoln Institute
 of Land Policy. $24.95.
 
CHANGING PLACES
 Rebuilding Community
 in the Age of Sprawl.
 By Richard Moe
 and Carter Wilkie.
 Illustrated. 288 pp. New York:
 Henry Holt & Company. $25. 
 When the New Jersey Devils won the Stanley Cup in 1995, the team faced a problem: where to hold the victory rally. The fans were mostly white guys from the Jersey suburbs. Management decided to bring them together on the barren asphalt plain outside the Meadowlands. "It's too bad to have a rally in a parking lot," one fan said, "but there's no town to go to." He summed up the problem of community in a placeless market society.
"Community" is one of those words that could use a nice vacation but probably won't be getting one. For centuries, American moralists have fretted about the fragmenting of community -- even as most of them tolerated or even celebrated the market feeding that fragmentation. A dose of materialist detail in the soupy haze of moralism could clarify the atmosphere, redirecting discussion toward particularities of place and power, making community more than a synonym for niceness.
Here are two books that further those ends in separate ways. "Fortress America," by Edward J. Blakely and Mary Gail Snyder, illustrates some powerful contemporary social impulses by collecting a wealth of evidence about gated communities and testimony from their residents. "Changing Places," by Richard Moe and Carter Wilkie, surveys successful strategies for neighborhood renovation and refutes faux-populist arguments for unplanned development.
The gated community, Blakely and Snyder write, is the latest innovation in the suburbanizing trend toward "ever more controlled, ever more privatized residential environments." For the zoning restrictions of earlier suburbs, the gated community substitutes guardhouses, physical barriers and hired security forces. Its governing body, the homeowners' association, constitutes a private "pseudo-government" that supplants or augments the services provided by surrounding local governments: street maintenance, police protection.
As they explain the rise of the gated community, Blakely, dean of the School of Urban and Regional Planning at the University of Southern California, and Snyder, a member of the city and regional planning department at the University of California, Berkeley, fall into the language of inevitability, allowing "development" to assume a life of its own. They set up a schematic model of community, heavy on homogeneity: "shared territory," "shared values," "shared public realm," "shared support structures," "shared destiny." It should come as no surprise that the gated communities fail to measure up. But when the authors abandon the language of test cases and listen to their informants, they begin re-creating the texture of life in gated communities.
On the whole, it is a smooth, bland texture, strikingly uniform despite the authors' efforts to separate the communities into categories. "Prestige communities" and "lifestyle communities," mainly situated around golf courses and marinas in the Sunbelt, make up the vast majority of the places surveyed. "Security zone communities," created by traffic barricades within existing urban areas, are more embattled and middle class. But nearly all the gated-community dwellers who speak up in this book are affluent corporate executives -- tanned, fit and dressed in "chinos, polos and golf sweaters." Some are retired; others are empty-nest professional couples. Their apparently casual tastes coexist with a habit of command; even at leisure they wear "pressed knee-length shorts."
What these people want, the authors discover, is not community but privacy and security. No matter how affluent they are, they dread the world outside the gates. Guardhouses, electronic surveillance systems and physical barriers provide reassurance but also reinforce the sense that one is surrounded by a disintegrating society. Crime is an obsession, despite (in most cases) the absence of any credible threat.
Like other fortunate Americans in the late 20th century, many gated-community residents are doing better but feeling worse. Tabloid-style coverage of crime and violent mass-market entertainment undoubtedly promote this anxiety. But so does the managerial ethos that governs so much of American life -- the determination to create a predictable, controlled environment even at the cost of sterility. In "Fortress America" what frightens the residents most about crime is its randomness. The retreat into gated communities is a flight from chance.
Gated communities are designed to protect their residents from the vagaries of existence -- falling property values, vandalism, violence, even an unplanned conversation with a person unlike oneself. Managerial mobility intensifies the desire for safety: gated-community residents are frequently away, leaving behind huge houses filled with expensive things. The proliferation of rules and the controlled access create "an environment where there are no surprises," Blakely and Snyder write. In Blackhawk, an exurban enclave outside San Francisco, a woman says, "It's nice at least part of the day to be able to come into something where you know what to expect, that you can count on it, and that is calming." Elsewhere, residents praise the leisure activities as "well structured and managed." The price of good management is boredom, for some. "This is a good place to live," a man in Yacht Haven, near Newport Beach, Calif., says. "It just isn't an interesting place to live."
There are larger problems as well. As the authors conclude, most gated communities cut off links between neighboring developments and accelerate the fragmenting impact of suburban sprawl. But it is difficult to know how to resist these tendencies, given the authors' assumption that sprawl will continue "leapfrogging beyond the new economic centers of the edge cities." Against inevitability, solutions like "shared streets" and "community coaches" seem risible.
"Changing Places" suggests some alternatives. By avoiding linear models of development, acknowledging the centrality of place and focusing on the interplay of interest groups, Moe, the president of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, and Wilkie, an adviser to Thomas M. Menino, the Mayor of Boston, have produced something more than a jeremiad against sprawl. Their critique is hard-nosed and historically based. Moe and Wilkie treat unplanned development as a result of specific policies that can be challenged and changed: subsidies for the housing and automobile industries; single-use suburban zoning; tax codes that turn buildings into wasting assets after 31 years; slash-and-burn urban redevelopment projects geared to cars, not people; mortgage lending that rewards racial segregation and architectural conformity.
Those policies have reflected the prejudices and interests of powerful economic groups, not some impersonal process. Sprawl is not a necessary corollary of growth -- though developers have exploited ordinary citizens' sense of fatalism. "That land is going to be developed no matter what" has long been a refrain in zoning disputes. Nor is sprawl an inevitable byproduct of market forces or the expression of consumer preference for 7-Elevens over corner groceries. For decades, developers have tried to present their opponents as effete esthetes. Moe and Wilkie discredit this fatuous claim with detailed narratives, ranging from the defeat of Disney's planned theme park at the Manassas battlefield to the revitalization of downtowns in Denver, Memphis and Portland, Ore. -- where citizens reversed modernization by tearing down Robert Moses' Harbor Drive expressway.
The economic benefits of sprawl are at best ambiguous, as "Changing Places" shows. Besides providing lower prices and low-paying service jobs, the Wal-Marts and Home Depots drain capital from local merchants and consumers to distant corporate headquarters, creating little or no wealth for the people on the premises. Restoring downtowns is about re-creating wealth in urban communities.
For Moe and Wilkie, community is not an ideal of homogeneity but an outgrowth of varied historical experiences in a particular place. Rebuilding community is a matter of making more livable places by reclaiming the material conditions of life. The built environment is an essential feature of our collective memory. Esthetics and history combine to create our sense of public space. Sprawl is inherently ugly; it rarely ages well. As Moe and Wilkie write, people can "see that things are obviously wrong just by looking around."
Or can they? Preservationists have had trouble transforming popular unease about development into practical politics. Their enemies have caricatured them as too fastidious to participate in the vibrant popular rituals of fast food and mass entertainment. "Changing Places" rejects this nonsense, repeatedly showing that historic preservationists have broadened their vision to include the everyday needs of working-class neighborhoods and entire retail districts. "Design is not just a building, but the streetscape," says Weiming Lu, a St. Paul planner whose strategies epitomize the newer perspective. The redefined mission of preservation acknowledges the need to make it pay but also includes what used to be called "quality of life" issues. This means reversing the gated communities' flight from chance, re-creating the possibility of safe "random personal encounters." This is what has happened, the authors assert, in the Garden District of New Orleans, in Chippewa Falls, Wis., and in Pittsburgh's Manchester neighborhood, among other places.
There are times when Moe and Wilkie seem overly sanguine. Will revitalized small towns attract high-tech corporations in search of livable locales for their employees? If they do, will they still be livable? Will postindustrial downtowns retain their regional distinctiveness as they switch to providing services that could be found anywhere? Will fax machines, E-mail and overnight delivery allow the vendors of Vermont maple syrup and Virginia hams to tap into a national market while sustaining their regional identity? Or will the whole lot of restored urban areas congeal into a sticky mass of potpourri, essential oils and expensive chocolate? Without productive ties to a place, will revitalized towns become what a friend of mine calls "Fruitopian communities"?
Moe and Wilkie sense these problems. They know the difference between gentrification and revitalization, between creating a stage set and re-creating a neighborhood. They insist on the importance of affordable rents and class diversity. And they probably suspect that even a Fruitopian town is better than a placeless suburbia where there is "no town to go to" at all.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: FORTRESS AMERICA (BOOK); CHANGING PLACES (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (57%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (57%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); SUBURBS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); TRENDS (77%); ZONING (77%); ICE HOCKEY (76%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (75%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (72%); LITERATURE (70%); WRITERS (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); HOMEOWNERS (68%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: BLAKELY, EDWARD J; SNYDER, MARY GAIL; MOE, RICHARD; WILKIE, CARTER; LEARS, JACKSON MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



603 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 7; Page 10; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Remains of the Day

BYLINE: By Elisabeth Bumiller; Elisabeth Bumiller, a metropolitan reporter for The Times, is the author of "The Secrets of Mariko: A Year in the Life of a Japanese Woman and Her Family."

 BODY:

From My Grandmother's Bedside
 Sketches of Postwar Tokyo.
 By Norma Field.
 204 pp. Berkeley:
 University of California Press. $24.95. 
 In the summer of 1995, on the 50th anniversary of the end of World War II, Norma Field went back to Tokyo to tend to her dying grandmother and the ghosts of her past. "My grandmother and I loved each other unconditionally," she writes. "I didn't think to understand it when I was 4, and I didn't need to at 40." Field's reflections from that painful visit have become "From My Grandmother's Bedside," a collection of childhood reminiscences and vignettes of modern Japan.
One comes to this book with high expectations. Field, a professor in the department of East Asian languages and civilizations at the University of Chicago, is the author of "In the Realm of a Dying Emperor," an intimate but sweeping look at the price the Japanese have paid for their economic success. In that book, she scrutinized Japan through the lives of three ordinary but extraordinary dissenters: a supermarket owner who burned the Rising Sun flag, a widow who objected when her husband was enshrined by the military as a god, and the Mayor of Nagasaki, who was wounded by a rightist's bullet when he said that Emperor Hirohito bore some responsibility for Japan's role in World War II. Few other writers have so deftly captured -- and indicted -- postwar Japan.
This time Field takes up a related theme, the passage "from a world of suffering to one of stress" -- the journey the Japanese have made from the deprivation of the war to what she sees as the alienation of today. Field was born in Japan, the daughter of an American G.I. who left her Japanese mother, and she is at her best when she draws pictures of her Tokyo girlhood. She lived, like most Japanese of the time, in what was essentially an urban village. In those days before television and cram schools, "when streets were filled with children's play," she and her best friend used to call out to each other across the bamboo fence separating their little spots of yard. She liked listening to "the drama of a sizzling wok" through the neighbors' wall and was fond of the "homely color" of the hollyhocks, cosmos and gladiolus, all now unfashionable in Tokyo, that filled her grandmother's garden.
Unfortunately, Field's vignettes do not add up to a coherent whole. Her writing is impressionistic, dotted with little jewels of acutely observed moments, but there is no thread that holds them together. Field herself worries about this in her preface, confessing that "I hope this book isn't only a willful collection of fragments." But it often is. In the space of a dozen pages, she moves from a few quick sentences about bullying in Japanese schools to a description of a devastating earthquake, from an account of her visit to the local library to one of the mobile bath that visits her grandmother, from a description of washing laundry by hand in a tub to memories of the baby across the street who died. Much of her text has the feel of diary jottings and notes.
Field uses the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the end of the war as a literary device, much as she used the five and a half months of Hirohito's terminal illness in 1988 and 1989 for "In the Realm of a Dying Emperor." But Japan in the late 1980's was at the height of its economic boom and arrogance, fertile ground that Field explored well. By 1995, Japan was humbled by recession yet still hoping to move out of the war's shadow and play an international role reflecting its status as a financial superpower.
Field does not engage herself with the more reflective mood of the country. Instead she revisits a theme from her earlier book -- "peace is the world of invisible oppression," she observes here -- but her treatment of it is cursory. "It's a struggle not to be alienated by the business of 50th-anniversary-of-the-end-of-the-war," she writes. "Peace, peace, peace, peace, peace. The word has been beaten senseless from overuse."
The freshest and most moving parts of the book are the moments when Field is with her adored grandmother, her Obachama, bedridden and silenced by two strokes. Field's mother cares for the grandmother full time, but Field has relieved her over the years. After the first stroke, she writes that she arrived in Tokyo to find her grandmother in a kind of half-coma. She crouched by her bed, called her name and waited. Slowly her grandmother turned her head and with unblinking eyes gazed first in bewilderment, then in grave sorrow, at her visitor. "And sometime during that long moment," Field writes, "the tears formed and began coursing down her cheek."
There are several books here: a memoir of a girl and her mother and grandmother in postwar Tokyo, an essay about Japan at century's end, the autobiography of a woman at home in two cultures but separate from both. Norma Field has written a little of each. The subtitle of her book is "Sketches of Postwar Tokyo"; one would like, from a writer of her gifts, something more like a painting.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: FROM MY GRANDMOTHER'S BEDSIDE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (71%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (71%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); LITERATURE (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); CHILDREN (69%); 

PERSON: BUMILLER, ELISABETH; FIELD, NORMA EMPEROR OF JAPAN HIROHITO (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



604 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Q&A/Quentin Snediker;
A New Amistad, With Human Dimensions

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
QUENTIN SNEDIKER is the Amistad project coordinator at the Mystic Seaport Museum, which is part of the Amistad America project, a coalition of four educational and research organizations. Their goal is to tell the story of the slave ship that, in 1839, was taken over by the 53 African men and women it was transporting, and the subsequent trial that gained their freedom.
Mystic Seaport is a living museum, a recreation of a 19th-century whaling village set on 37 acres on the banks of the Mystic River, in an area that produced more than 600 ships during the period 1784-1919. It sees more than 400,000 visitors a year. 
 Mr. Snediker, who attended New York Maritime College, has spent a career on and around sailing vessels. In the late 1980's. he joined the Seaport as the vessel maintenance supervisor. He left in 1992 to go to the Chesapeake Bay Maritime Museum in Maryland, which specializes in mid-Atlantic schooners, which is the classification of the Amistad -- built in Havana, but based on the model of the Baltimore Schooner.
He returned to Mystic in 1995 to design a replica of the Amistad, celebrated in the last couple of years in books, plays and an opera. Steven Spielberg consulted with Mr. Snediker before he began filming his just-released movie, "Amistad."
Mr. Snediker discussed the project, and the Amistad, in a recent interview in his office overlooking the Mystic River. Following are excerpts from that conversation.
Q. Why do this project for a 19th-century whaling village?
A. We're not just a 19th-century whaling village. Our principal artifact is the Charles W. Morgan, the last wooden whaling ship, but what we do is tell the story of America at sea, and the story is an inclusive one, filled with people of diverse backgrounds.
Q. Why is there so much interest suddenly in the Amistad?
A. I think it's just another great idea whose time has come. Very often, in scientific discovery or industrial advancements, similar ideas are developed in different parts of the world as the result of completely independent research. The Amistad is an excellent example, showing the capabilities of people working together, showing what they can accomplish.
Q. Is such an old design going to meet modern safety standards?
A. The design of every vessel is a compromise of its mission-driven parameters, whether it's an oil carrier in 1997 or a cargo schooner in 1832. There are a combination of factors that dictate its design, not the least of which are the pocketbook of the owner, the route it will follow, the trade it's going to be engaged in.
To serve as a reliable educational tool, we have to compromise the historic nature of the ship to meet all the modern requirements of the Coast Guard. So the vessel will be a little higher sided, it will have 15 tons of external ballast, which was unknown in 1839, to keep the center of gravity low and make it more stable, have five separate watertight compartments, and an internal combustion engine for propulsion.
But essentially, to the untrained eye, it will very much look and feel like the Amistad.
Q. Has your own research focused on the engineering specifications of the ship, or all aspects of the incident?
A. My job was to research the historic vessel. But the vessel itself is really a footnote to the more important human rights issues. I've had to look at every primary resource item -- Supreme Court testimony, letters and documents, federal and state court accounts, newspaper accounts of the time. One can't study Amistad without becoming fully engaged in the struggle for human rights.
Q. Have you run into any problems with special materials needed for the ship?
A. We know some of the species that were used. We've enjoyed the donation of some live oak from South Carolina, and we expect the donation from various sources of some white oak. The materials are available, although it's not like you can go to the local lumberyard and buy what you need.
Q. Has Mystic Seaport ever built a replica from the keel up?
A. Some of the reconstruction we've done has been virtually rebuilding the entire vessel. This will be the first major vessel that we build from scratch, though.
Q. Have enough records survived to rebuild it?
A. Fortunately, any vessel has a paper trail attached to it. The first thing the crew of the Washington demanded when they got aboard the Amistad was the ship records -- it's sort of the equivalent today of giving your license and registration. Those fundamental identification papers became part of the court record, and are now in the National Archives. We have a good description of the vessel and its cargo.
Q. How long will the construction project take, and what will it cost?
A. We have a $2.5 million bond from the state Department of Economic and Community Development. We've had to match that with a commitment of $650,000 ourselves. We are looking at the total budget for two years, beginning March 1998 through the spring of 2000, as a $3.1 million project, including construction, exhibits and interpretation for visitors, educational programming.
Beyond that, Amistad America intends to raise an endowment for the vessel for maintenance so it can be made available to the largest number of people. A boat is traditionally defined as a hole in the water into which one pours money, so it's going to be a continuous program.
Q. Do you have any idea what the original Amistad cost?
A. I would say somewhere in the area of $3,000, $4,000.
Q. Is there the danger that this story will increase racial tensions?
A. Part of the healing of racism in this country is going to be to address the realities of the conditions of slavery and how American history is built on the efforts of people of African descent -- inventors and scholars -- as well as white Americans. Their contribution hasn't been recognized. The absolute horrors of slavery haven't been recognized. Only when we address our historic oppression can we heal the wounds.
Certainly, these Africans were unique among the 9 million souls that were kidnapped from the shores of Africa and forced into passage to the New World. It's an excellent opportunity to examine that aspect of our history.
Q. Do you find it incongruous that while you're poring over dusty records, someone else at the Seaport is assembling a World Wide Web page on the Amistad?
A. Not at all. As a matter of fact, we're using the highest degree of technology possible in the design of the vessel. The contract architectural firm, Tricoastal Marine in Baltimore is using Computer Aided Design, to give us three-dimensional images of the vessel in the design phase. It's part of making the process efficient, and guaranteeing the safety of the vessel.
Q. How do you feel, as a ship historian, about Amistad America selling mugs and T-shirts that promote the Amistad? Is it commercializing the incident too much?
A. I don't think it is at all. I think most people are going to want something connected with the vessel, and putting a picture of it on a T-shirt or a mug is a modern way of being able to carry that vessel with you, and gives you an emotional connection to the ship, and the Amistad story. We want everyone to feel a part of this because it's part of our common history.
Q. Were you disappointed that New London, New Haven and Farmington, which played such important roles in the Amistad trial, were written out of Mr. Spielberg's movie?
A. The film is art, derived from the incident. It is an interpretation. To tell the story of two-and-a-half years of experiences of 53 Africans and innumerable Americans who rallied to their support, in two-and-a-half hours, is going to force someone to pick and choose how to tell that story. We really embrace the film, because the film will create a national awareness of the Amistad incident, and open the doors for us to tell a more in-depth view of the story.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Quentin Snediker, Amistad project coordinator at the Mystic Seaport Museum, talks of diversity in a life at sea. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TITLE: AMISTAD (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MYSTIC SEAPORT MUSEUM (CONN) MYSTIC SEAPORT MUSEUM (93%); MYSTIC SEAPORT MUSEUM (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MYSTIC SEAPORT MUSEUM (CONN) MYSTIC SEAPORT MUSEUM (93%); MYSTIC SEAPORT MUSEUM (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SLAVERY; MOTION PICTURES; AMISTAD (SCHOONER); SHIPS AND SHIPPING HARBORS & PORTS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (89%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); WHALING (76%); MOVIE FILMING (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); 

PERSON: SNEDIKER, QUENTIN T; SPIELBERG, STEVEN; HAMILTON, ROBERT A STEVEN SPIELBERG (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



605 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Expect to Travel in 2020? You'll Have Company

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Turkey

 BODY:
THE worldwide tourism industry will expand so fast between now and 2020 that "it will not only be the world's biggest industry, it will be the largest by far the world has ever seen," according to a new study by the World Tourism Organization.
The organization, which is the world's foremost agency devoted to the study and promotion of tourism, is part of the United Nations Development Program and counts 138 nations and more than 350 local governments, hotel groups, tour operators and airlines as members. According to its projections, issued at an October assembly in Istanbul, there will be 1.6 billion international tourist arrivals in 2020, nearly triple the current number. These tourists will spend more than $2 trillion for their vacations, up from $399 billion in 1995. 
 "Despite these huge figures, it is important to recognize that international tourism still has much potential to exploit," the organization said in a report called "Tourism 2020 Vision." It called tourism "an industry truly still in its infancy."
"The world in the year 2020 will be characterized by the penetration of technology into all aspects of life," the report says. "Even the emergent space tourism of that time will be by definition an activity which is undertaken largely in isolation. In consequence, people will crave the human touch, and tourism will be a principal means through which they seek to achieve this."
The report predicts that regions of the world that are less favored by tourists today, including Asia, Africa and the Middle East, will see substantially more visitors, especially if they are able to improve their amenities and guarantee peaceful environments. Tourism in most other regions will also grow, albeit more slowly.
China, which for decades was closed to tourists and is now building a nationwide tourism industry, will be the world's most popular destination in 2020, according to the report, with most of the visitors coming from other Asian countries. The next most popular destinations were projected to be the United States, France, Spain, Hong Kong, Italy, Britain, Mexico, Russia and the Czech Republic.
Most tourists will be, as they are today, Germans, Japanese and Americans. Chinese will be the fourth largest group.
In summarizing trends in various regions, the report says Africa has natural and cultural resources in abundance but needs to improve its infrastructure and change the perception of being a high-risk continent to visit. It urges the United States to diversify into new market segments, particularly the high-yield Asian markets.
"The mature European tourism destinations will need to continuously strive to seek product and market differentiation to avoid the spread of a 'tired' or 'stale' image," it says. The nations of eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, it adds, "have the potential to become Europe's 'tigers' in the period to 2020."
In other reports issued at the Istanbul assembly, the organization said that the United States earned more than $64 billion from international tourism last year, more than any other country. Italy, with $28.7 billion, overtook France for the first time to move into second place. France, however, had more foreign visitors than any other country, 62.4 million compared with 46.3 million in the United States.
Tourism in eastern and central Europe grew rapidly in 1996, as in Russia, China, Japan, Australia and Southeast Asia. Among the biggest losers were Sri Lanka, where civil war has torn apart a land of great beauty, and Greece, with an unexpected drop of 11.3 percent compared with 1995.
The most popular African destination in 1996 was South Africa, followed by Tunisia, Morocco and Zimbabwe. In Asia, China led the list, though high-priced Hong Kong remained the largest revenue earner.
Perhaps the most poignant statistics were from Egypt, where receipts from tourism more than doubled from 1994 to 1996. Soon after the conference, however, militants carried out the murderous assault in Luxor, which is expected to have a severely negative impact, at least temporarily, on the country's tourism.
"Globally, Europe has continued to be the most visited among all regions of the world, absorbing half of world receipts from international tourism and almost two-thirds of arrivals in 1996," one of the organization's reports says. "Europe continues to maintain its overall dominance as a tourist destination, but has experienced a significant loss of 10.2 percentage points in its share of arrivals since 1975."
Among the countries that received the best news at the assembly was the host, Turkey, which now ranks among the world's top 20 tourist destinations. Nearly nine million foreign visitors came here in 1996, up more than 11 percent from the year before.
Especially encouraging was the evidently growing interest of Americans. In 1996, the number of Americans visiting Turkey surpassed 50,000 for the first time, an increase of 12.5 percent over 1995. Further increases are projected for this year.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Top Destinations (1996)"
International tourist arrivals, in thousands
 
France 62,406
United States 46,325
Spain 41,295
Italy 32,853
United Kingdom 25,293
China 22,765
Mexico 21,405
Hungary 20,674
Poland 19,410
Canada 17,286

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); TURKEY (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); SPAIN (91%); HONG KONG (79%); HUNGARY (79%); GERMANY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); POLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); 

CITY: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TOURISM ORGANIZATION UNITED NATIONS WORLD TOURISM ORGANIZATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (57%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TOURISM ORGANIZATION UNITED NATIONS WORLD TOURISM ORGANIZATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (57%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); TURKEY (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); SPAIN (91%); HONG KONG (79%); HUNGARY (79%); GERMANY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); POLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; FORECASTS TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); TOURISM (90%); LODGING (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); TRENDS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); TOUR OPERATORS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); AIRLINES (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



606 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 18; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 5895 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn Could Have Been A Contender

BYLINE: By John Tierney; John Tierney is a staff writer for the Magazine.

 BODY:
It is a little late to be running a correction, but The New York Times owes one to the people who gathered at Brooklyn's City Hall on New Year's Eve 100 years ago. They met on that miserably cold, rainy night for an "observance" -- they specifically refused to call it a celebration -- of their city's merger with New York at midnight. Brooklyn's Mayor got a long round of applause for his efforts to prevent New York City, which then consisted of just Manhattan and the southwestern Bronx, from annexing its neighbors to create the boroughs of Brooklyn, Queens, the Bronx and Staten Island. The evening's featured speaker was another leader of the resistance, St. Clair McKelway, the editor of The Brooklyn Daily Eagle. Sharing Manhattan's tax revenues appealed to many Brooklynites (enough, at least, to vote for the merger), but McElway feared his industrious city would be corrupted by marrying for money.
"Brooklyn has repeatedly shown herself to be the most independent urban community in the world," McKelway told the somber audience. "There need be no apology for the poverty of Brooklyn. It is an honorable poverty." 
 Across the river, Manhattan's merchants, bankers and publishers celebrated their triumph with fireworks and a parade. The Times could not resist gloating. It ridiculed McKelway's speech in an article pretending to share his concern. "Complete assimilation," The Times warned, "would rob Brooklyn of
that treasured jewel, her poverty, by which, it appears, she sets such store." The Times described the "peril" awaiting Brooklyn: thriving new industries, ample tax revenues, less public debt, fine affordable homes for the new workers, improved public utilities, streets that would be "well paved and clean," bustling business and shopping districts. Brooklyn would soon be so "rich and noisy" it would rival Manhattan.
McKelway's paper had tried warning Brooklyn's taxpayers that they couldn't afford New York's profligate style of government, but The Times vowed that consolidation would be a blessing to taxpayers in both cities: "Brooklyn's taxes would fall at once. New York's would not perhaps fall at once, but they would fall certainly." Suggesting that The Eagle's opposition to consolidation was motivated by "selfish reasons" instead of "regard for the public welfare," The Times reassured the Brooklyn paper that it would go on publishing "with undiminished profit and honor in the same city with ourselves."
Today, the latest incarnation of The Brooklyn Daily Eagle -- the original shut down in 1955 -- has a circulation of 20,000, which is approximately 1.7 million less than the circulation of the periodical in your hands. Consolidation has been very good for The New York Times and other Manhattan institutions. The public's welfare is another matter.
Contrary to The Times's prediction, Brooklyn is more of a poor relation today than it was a century ago. While some sections of Manhattan are booming, Brooklyn, with its factories closed and its piers abandoned, has a 10 percent unemployment rate, one of the highest in the country. It is part of a city renowned for decrepit roads and public utilities, high taxes, heavy public debt and a perpetual shortage of affordable housing. In retrospect, consolidation looks an awful lot like what the Brooklynites gathered on New Year's Eve called it: the Great Mistake.
Modern Brooklyn does have some success stories, like the revival of Brooklyn Heights and Park Slope and the new communities of immigrants. Russians have created a thriving Little Odessa in Brighton Beach; Mexican manufacturers have turned empty factories in Bushwick into Tortilla Triangle; other Hispanic, Asian and Caribbean entrepreneurs have reinvigorated neighborhoods and commercial districts. On Flatbush Avenue, Caribbean jitney drivers have created a mass-transit system that is better than the municipal bus lines and actually turns a profit. Large office buildings have recently opened in downtown Brooklyn, the first such development there in half a century -- but that's also the bad news. It shouldn't have taken so long.
Brooklyn today is famous mainly for what it has lost: industries, neighborhoods, a baseball team. As Pete Hamill writes of his fellow Brooklynites, "An inner voice always seems to whisper: There was another place here once and it was better than this." The borough has become a convenient symbol for doom in movies like "Last Exit to Brooklyn," a brutal story of hoods and striking workers in Red Hook's industrial wasteland, and "Do the Right Thing," which ends with a riot by despairing blacks in Bedford-Stuyvesant. In the Bay Ridge of "Saturday Night Fever," the grand ennobling dream is to escape across the river to the City.
New York's consolidation was predicated on the philosophy that bigger was better, that a city would prosper under the centralized guidance of experts -- rule by the "best men," as the consolidationists put it. In the first few decades of consolidation, Greater New York did thrive, partly because centralization produced some legitimate benefits (like simplifying the building of the subway system) but mainly because the city was already established as a hub of wealth and talent. Eventually, though, the best men's plans became too expensive and stifling, not only in New York but in the other cities that emulated its bureaucracies. New York inspired America's golden age of urban planning, which was marred only by the mass exodus of urbanites to suburban communities offering large houses, uncrowded streets -- and smaller governments that were not run by those best men.
American cities have finally begun to revive themselves by abandoning the New York model. New York itself has made a comeback by decentralizing. Crime has fallen thanks to police strategies that make local precincts more accountable; parks and neighborhoods have been restored by non-profit groups and local businesses that do jobs neglected by city bureaucracies. New Yorkers are learning to ignore the best men and pay attention to people like Jane Jacobs, the former Greenwich Village resident who fought Robert Moses and criticized centralized planning in her classic 1961 book, "The Death and Life of Great American Cities."
"Brooklyn and the other boroughs would all be better off on their own," says Jacobs, who now lives in Toronto. "The idea behind New York's amalgamation was that taxes would be pooled and the poor would benefit. But look at the results. The richest borough, Manhattan, has received some economic and cultural benefits, and the others have been stultified in their development. Big bureaucracies can't allow for the diversity and the experimentation that are essential to cities. When mistakes are made, they're made everywhere."
Many Brooklynites knew the perils of bigness last century. The merger was approved by a margin of just 277 votes out of more than 129,000 cast in the city of Brooklyn and the small neighboring communities that now make up the borough. What if the vote had gone the other way? What if Brooklyn's resistance had stopped the consolidation process, leaving Brooklyn -- not to mention Queens, Staten Island and the northeastern Bronx -- independent? Mike Wallace, a professor at John Jay College and co-author of the forthcoming "Gotham," a history of New York City, sees two possibilities.
"One scenario is war between Brooklyn and New York," he says. "To develop independently, Brooklyn needed to expand its tax base and get access to drinking water. If New York refused to sell it water, Brooklyn might have looked on Long Island. It might have expanded its own borders by annexing Queens and Suffolk County, then declared war on New York by turning Jamaica Bay into a rival port. With its larger population and with all the land available to build docks and airports, Brooklyn could conceivably have ended up as an urban powerhouse on its own."
Wallace's other scenario seems more likely: Brooklyn and New York continue as relatively peaceful twin cities, negotiating arrangements for water and transportation. They had already collaborated on the Brooklyn Bridge (financed chiefly by Brooklyn) and the trains that carried commuters across it. The subway system, constructed mainly by private transit companies in Brooklyn and Manhattan, could have been built without merging the cities, perhaps with coordination by a regional agency.
It's also conceivable that something would have gone very wrong between the independent cities. Maybe the political squabbling would have slowed development so much that a competing metropolitan power would have risen across the Hudson River (and today, people in New Jersey would be telling jokes about the yokels in New York). Or maybe Chicago would have displaced New York as America's prominent city. At the time of the merger, Chicago was about to surpass New York in population, which the consolidationists viewed as a terrible threat to the city's pride.
But consolidation, whatever ego gratification it provided to the city's leaders, was not necessary to make New York a great city. In 1897, the unconsolidated city was already firmly established as a capital of trade, finance, commerce, manufacturing, immigration and culture. Relative to the rest of America, it was a far more dominant and dynamic city that it is today.
Nor was consolidation necessary for Brooklyn's survival. In 1897, it was the fourth-largest city in the country, its population and manufacturing output exceeded only by New York, Philadelphia and Chicago. It refined half of the sugar in America and produced hats, clocks, shoes, cigars and books. Two thousand ships a year docked there. Fulton Street was thronged with shoppers. The system of streetcars and elevated trains was one of the most advanced in the world, which was why Brooklynites were called Trolley Dodgers. Developers were building small houses in Brownsville for the working class and and elegant brownstones in Bedford-Stuyvesant for merchants. Brooklyn was famous for its parks -- many landscape architects still consider Prospect Park superior to its architects' better-known work, Central Park -- and its grand hotels on Coney Island. Construction was underway on the Brooklyn Museum's Beaux-Arts palace, which, if all the wings had been completed, would have been bigger than the Metropolitan Museum. And there was, of course, a baseball team named after those Trolley Dodgers.
If it had been left alone in 1898, Brooklyn might still have the Dodgers and a lot more. Today, with 2.2 million people, it could be the third-largest city in America, behind Los Angeles and Chicago. (Manhattan, with 1.5 million people, would rank seventh, below Queens with 1.9 million, Houston and Philadelphia.) An independent Brooklyn would probably never have rivaled Manhattan for power or wealth or glamour. But in its own way, it could have been a contender.
 
On the Waterfront
Dominick Massa's view of Manhattan is from the Sunset Park neighborhood, looking through the charred, twisted girders covering the abandoned piers of the old Bush Terminal near the Gowanus Expressway. Massa's grandfather was a carpenter in the terminal, a 20-block stretch of docks, warehouses and factories. His mother and father worked nearby, making macaroni and chocolate for A&P stores.
"I used to sneak into this terminal as a kid to watch all the action," recalls Massa, who is 52. "There were thousands of workers, freight cars everywhere, trucks lined up for two blocks to get in. The ships were unloading cocoa, coffee, wine, cheese, oil, everything from soup to nuts." In 1989, Massa leased eight blocks of the terminal from the city, intending to bring in new businesses. By then it was an expanse of rotting piers, abandoned cars and dozens of ramshackle buildings with leaky roofs and thousands of broken windows.
What would have happened to this waterfront if Brooklyn had stayed independent? Massa smiles at the possibility, then dismisses the ugly reality with a wave of his hand.
"Ah, fuhgeddaboudit," he says. "There might be a container port here, or some new factories or offices, or some kind of recreational facility -- maybe a marina, a promenade, places where people would come for a walk, go fishing. We never would have let it deteriorate the way it did."
Brooklyn's woes are usually attributed to national trends beyond anyone's control. Shippers and manufacturers headed for places with cheaper labor and land. Federally subsidized highways and mortgages opened up the suburbs. The middle class fled the old industrial cities, leaving behind the unemployed poor and their problems.
But New York, even with all its inherent advantages, has generally fared worse than the other cities. When Massa's grandfather worked here in the 1950's, New York's jobs-per-capita ratio was higher than just about every other major American city's. Today, it is among the lowest, well below most other old industrial centers in the East and Midwest. New York's problem was not simply that industries fled from places like the Brooklyn waterfront. "The problem," Massa says, "was that nothing replaced them."
Brooklyn has the same basic economic assets today that it had in 1897: location, location, location. It still sits across a narrow river from an economic and cultural capital. Like Silicon Valley outside San Francisco and Burbank next to Los Angeles, Brooklyn is endowed with proximity to an expensive city that attracts the ambitious and the creative from around the world. But while the computer industry was being created in Silicon Valley, while television and movie companies from Los Angeles were filling Burbank with sound stages, the chief new economic activities on Brooklyn's waterfront were drug dealing and garbage dumping.
Why didn't computer companies move into those old brick buildings at the Bush Terminal? The office views would have been better than anything in Silicon Valley or on Microsoft's campus outside Seattle, and the companies could have recruited young talent from Polytechnic University in downtown Brooklyn, one of the country's largest graduate engineering schools. Why didn't the television and movie producers who complain about Manhattan's paucity of sound stages establish an outpost called Brooklywood? Why did the white-collar corporations fleeing Manhattan's high rents so rarely settle in downtown Brooklyn? Why didn't someone in Manhattan's publishing world use Brooklyn's empty warehouses to start something like Amazon.com? Why doesn't New York's left bank resemble Paris's? Why doesn't Coney Island's boardwalk resemble Atlantic City's?
"An indepedendent Brooklyn," Hamill says, "would never have mutilated those amazing beaches by putting in high-rise public housing projects as far as possible from any kind of job. Coney Island could have had casinos before Atlantic City: 'Take the train to the game.' There would be a famous symphony orchestra in Brooklyn -- they've got one in Cleveland. An independent Brooklyn probably would have built a new stadium for the Dodgers, so today there might be not just baseball but also the only football team on this side of the Hudson."
Under New York's master planners, Brooklyn has lost the nimbleness that helped it adapt before consolidation. Its first commercial waterfront developed near the landing used by Robert Fulton's ferries to Manhattan. That area became obsolete when the Brooklyn Bridge was built high overhead, creating a new commercial center up the hill. But Fulton Landing did not remain a wasteland: Robert Gair promptly built factories there to turn out his innovation, the corrugated cardboard box, conveniently close to his customers across the river. New York's lucrative market stimulated all kinds of development. Ferries took Manhattanites out to Ambrose Park, an amusement park on the waterfront where Dominick Massa now works, and then the amusement park gave way to Irving T. Bush's docks and factories. Starting with one warehouse in 1890, Bush created a 200-acre terminal complete with its own piers, police and fire forces, power plants and railroad, whose cars traveled on barges across the harbor to rail lines in New Jersey.
To keep Brooklyn competitive with other Eastern ports, New York's leaders promised in 1920 to build a rail tunnel under the harbor, giving Brooklyn a direct link to the mainland. The tunnel was supposed to be the first project of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. But it never happened. The Port Authority instead moved on to a long series of projects benefiting Manhattan and New Jersey, like the Hudson River crossings, the World Trade Center and the PATH commuter train. It built a port for Newark, capable of handling the large new cargo containers, that took business away from the docks in Brooklyn and Manhattan.
The city's master builder, Robert Moses, concentrated on highways for commuters to Manhattan. The residents of Sunset Park objected to his plan to build the Gowanus highway through their neighborhood. But while Manhattanites managed to prevent Moses from building an expressway across SoHo, Sunset Park residents lacked such clout. Then, after the Gowanus was built, New York's leaders became so preoccupied with social programs that there was no money to properly maintain its roads, so Sunset Park ended up not only with a blighted neighborhood but also a decrepit highway atop it.
When Massa began renovating the waterfront buildings between 42d and 50th Streets, he hoped to fill them with small manfacturers and distributors. His biggest obstacle was the city's commercial occupancy tax, a surcharge on rent of up to 6 percent, which does not exist in other cities. "I was practically on my hands and knees trying to get a tenant in here," he says. "The occupancy tax was the last straw. Once they heard about it, they were off to Jersey."
They did not want to pay a Manhattan premium to be in Brooklyn, the same reason so many other businesses fled from the taxes and union contracts designed for Manhattan. An independent Brooklyn would never have imposed the occupancy tax or the many other only-in-New-York fees. The unincorporated business tax, for instance, was aimed at the partners of Manhattan's law and securities firms, but it also levied a 4 percent surcharge on the income of self-employed professionals in the other boroughs. The lawyers needed to stay in Manhattan, but when a struggling screenwriter in Fort Greene finally sold a script, or when an independent consultant in Manhattan was considering a bigger home in Park Slope, their tax accountant's first advice was to leave New York.
After years of complaints, the city last year finally eliminated the occupancy tax in the outer boroughs and parts of Manhattan. "Now the buildings are filling up," Massa says. "People said the waterfront was finished, but we're close to 90 percent occupancy here and in other parts of Sunset Park. Companies are moving back here from Jersey because they want to be closer to their customers in Manhattan and the labor force in Brooklyn." Massa's waterfront buildings are occupied by small firms that bake bread, roast coffee, silk-screen T-shirts, build wooden cribs, cut marble for kitchen counters and distribute goods ranging from jeans to light bulbs to appliances. The upsurge in business has induced Massa to convert the workers' cafeteria of the old terminal into a restaurant. Above the fireplace, he has dusted off an inscription put there by Mr. Bush.
"Success is not an accident," the inscription reads. "It comes to the man who does his work better than the other fellow."
Brooklynites last century feared that this sort of bourgeois thinking would be endangered by consorting with the hustlers across the river, and they turned out to be right.
 ' We have no street analogous to your Fifth Avenue," The Eagle's editor told New York a century ago, "but neither have we any resembling those of your tenderloin district. With us are as yet no extremes of wealth or poverty; but the families of moderate means are becoming fewer with you."
The city of homes and churches, as Brooklyn called itself, remained a middle-class bastion through the 1950's, when Jackie Gleason portrayed a bus driver from Bensonhurst in "The Honeymooners." But McElway's fears were eventually realized, as another Brooklynite, Fred Siegel, laments in his new book analyzing urban problems, "The Future Once Happened Here."
"Manhattan's wealth has been a curse to Brooklyn," says Siegel, a professor of history at the Cooper Union. "It's like a rich gravy that covers the failure of the food below. The city's infrastructure was allowed to collapse because Wall Street was doing well and Manhattan thought the city didn't need an old-fashioned industrial base. An independent Brooklyn would have had to develop the economic assets of its citizens, but instead it has become an object of pity -- an opportunity for rich Manhattanites to demonstrate their generosity by providing welfare and social programs."
Like the former Bartons chocolate factory on Fulton Street, which now houses tax collectors and social workers, Brooklyn stopped making and started taking. The villains in Siegel's book are the Manhattan politicians and activists who built the nation's first welfare state during the 1960's. It was a time of economic prosperity -- unemployment among black males in New York City was only 4 percent -- but the welfare rolls tripled to more than a million people as city officials, academics and lawyers crusaded for new welfare rights. Mitchell I. Ginsberg, the associate dean of Columbia University's social-work school who became Mayor John V. Lindsay's Social Services Commissioner, was dubbed "Come and Get It Ginsberg" by The Daily News when he announced that the city would no longer verify whether applicants actually met the requirements for welfare. Siegel, who lives in Flatbush, sees the results of this philanthropy close to home when he walks by the small apartment buildings that now house welfare recipients instead of working-class families.
"The problem is not that poor people moved into the neighborhood," he says, pausing at a corner that was until recently a 24-hour crack market. "The problem is that they now stay poor. Brooklyn ceased being the seedbed of the middle class. During the biggest economic boom the country had ever seen, Manhattan's elite gave up on the idea of upward mobility, and Brooklyn paid the price."
 
BROOKLYN AGONISTES
On Jan. 1, 1898, the best prediction for the consolidated city was unintentionally made by Rabbi Joseph Silverman at Temple Emanu-el in Manhattan. "We need fear no great danger of the misrule of the city," he said, hailing the strength of Greater New York. "Like Samson rising in moral and physical might, it will destroy beneath the temple of injustice and anarchy the men who rob it of its strength and its beauty."
In comparing Greater New York to Samson, Rabbi Silverman overlooked a complication at the end of the biblical story: the temple falls on Samson as well as on the Philistines. This complication has not been overlooked by Brad De Long, an economist at the University of California at Berkeley who has studied the historical fortunes of cities. One of his essays takes its title from the scene in Milton's "Samson Agonistes" in which Samson's father addresses his dead son:
"O lastly overstrong against thyself!
A dreadful way thou took'st to thy revenge."
De Long's essay, "Overstrong Against Thyself," deals with a central predicament that cities have faced since the first agricultural marketplaces. To protect their wealth, merchants typically shared power and their earnings with princes and priests. The city prospered as long as these authorities maintained social order and were satisfied with a reasonable share of the profits. But as the city grew, it offered increasingly dangerous temptations.
"A large, rich city has the accoutrements of civilization that appeal to the most ambitious princes and priests of the age," says De Long. "Eventually the merchants lose power to an overstrong prince." As the new prince and priests pursue their ambitious projects -- palaces and wars, temples and moral crusades --taxes rise and decrees proliferate. The city stagnates as merchants go elsewhere.
By comparing nine different regions of Western Europe over the past millennium, De Long and a colleague, Andrei Shleifer, found that urban populations shrank during periods when cities were consolidated into larger empires. "City growth," De Long concludes, "has a strong allergy to the presence of strong, centralizing princes."
Why did the Renaissance begin in Northern Italy, which had previously been a relative backwater? In the year 1000, Italy's economy had been dominated by Naples and other city-states in the South, but these cities were subsequently conquered by Robert (the Crafty) d'Hauteville and brought under the control of the Kingdom of Sicily. The Northern city-states remained independent and prospered under the control of merchants like Lorenzo (the Magnificent) Medici in Florence, whose income came chiefly from his family's bank, not taxes. Culture and commerce flourished in the independent Northern cities; but when these cities eventually fell under the sway of foreign warrior princes (from Spain and France), the Renaissance waned along with the merchants' prosperity. New commercial and cultural hubs formed in the independent cities of the Low Countries.
A similar historical progression can be observed today on the two shores facing lower Manhattan: Brooklyn across the East River and Jersey City across the Hudson. The Brooklyn shore is a neighborhood called Dumbo, for Down Under the Manhattan Bridge Overpass. Near the site of Fulton's old ferryboat landing are empty warehouses, former factories and a riverside parking lot with one of the greatest views in the world. Most of the property belongs to David Walentas, a developer who has been trying since 1981 to revive the waterfront by restoring the old buildings and adding a shorefront promenade. He has plans for a marina, stores, movie theaters, apartments, offices and lofts for artists and artisans.
Walentas's project has won the support of the Brooklyn Borough President, Howard Golden, but it has long been stymied by the overstrong princes and priests across the river. During the boom of the 1980's, Walentas got into a feud with the Koch Administration. Then the real-estate market collapsed. Now the market has been revived and City Hall is backing the project, but construction along the waterfront probably won't begin before the millennium. Walentas still must contend with New York's mandarin classes: the bureaucracies and judges who administer the nation's most complex zoning, housing and environmental regulations. Even a project backed by the city, like the Metrotech Center buildings in downtown Brooklyn (which received tax incentives worth more than $300 million), can be held up for years by lawsuits from special-interest groups.
While Walentas was waiting two decades, the developer Sam LeFrak was busy elsewhere. "I would have loved to do something on the Brooklyn waterfront," says LeFrak, whose company once built large projects on Sheepshead Bay and Coney Island. "When Ed Koch was Mayor, I took him on my yacht past the Manhattan Bridge and told him he should develop that great real estate. But the zoning and political straitjacket in New York was impossible. So we took a page from Horace Greeley and went west."
LeFrak set his sights on 600 acres of old docks and railroad yards in Jersey City, just across the Hudson from the World Trade towers. Jersey City officials welcomed the plans he presented in 1983, and within three years construction was under way on a $10 billion project. So far, LeFrak has built two office towers, a marina, a shopping mall, movie theaters, a gigantic international food market and 2,500 apartments, with New York skyline views at half the cost of Manhattan rents. LeFrak refuses even to contemplate how much time and money it would take to build a similar project in Brooklyn.
"Forget it," he says. "Forget it. Even God couldn't do it."
Besides LeFrak's project, Jersey City's booming waterfront has other new office and apartment buildings, stores, warehouses, industrial plants and a new science museum. Since the end of the recession in 1992, Jersey City has gained 12,000 new jobs -- about the same number gained in all of Brooklyn, which has 10 times the population and 6 times the area. Jersey City and the old industrial centers nearby still have pockets of poverty, but the unemployment rate in the counties along the west side of the Hudson is significantly lower than New York City's. While Brooklyn and Queens have gained a few big new office buildings, developers in the small towns across the Hudson have recently built the equivalent of a whole new downtown, giving northern New Jersey the fifth-largest concentration of office space in America.
New Yorkers may have a hard time seeing the resemblance between Jersey City and Renaissance Florence. They may sneer that its new developments lack the urban charms of Brooklyn. But Brooklyn's chief advantages over New Jersey -- its historic buildings and neighborhoods, its access to Manhattan -- were even greater before Brooklyn consolidated with New York. In 1897, there was no comparison between the large sophisticated city of Brooklyn and the isolated New Jersey waterfront of rail yards and swampland. Today it's New Jersey that has the active port and the urban status symbols -- professional sports teams in the Meadowlands, the science museum in Jersey City, a new performing-arts center in Newark. The Hudson River crossings are not falling apart like the East River bridges. Unconsolidated New Jersey has ended up with the benefits that The Times promised Brooklyn a century ago: well-maintained roads and public utilities, thriving retail and business districts, lower taxes and lower public debt, jobs and affordable homes for workers.
If New Jersey is not a sufficiently inspiring model, consider the Los Angeles area, which today may contain the most dynamic approximation of Renaissance cities: an urban center thriving because of its international combination of traders, merchants, artisans and artists. Unlike New York's economy, dominated by Manhattan's large white-collar corporations, Los Angeles's has been bolstered by a rich assortment of small new businesses and factories, particularly in the independent cities that adjoin Los Angeles.
"The best urban models are the small cities like Glendale and Burbank," says Joel Kotkin, a fellow at the Pepperdine University Institute for Public Policy in Malibu and a Brooklyn native. "They aren't necessarily rich enclaves -- some have substantial blue-collar, minority populations -- but almost without exception the independent cities are doing better than the adjoining sections of Los Angeles. Small cities can experiment and learn because they have short feedback loops. That's why they've managed to keep the middle class and big cities haven't."
If Brooklyn had remained independent -- or, better yet, been broken into even smaller cities -- Kotkin says that his family might still be there. "My parents didn't want to leave the city for Long Island. My father hated it out there, but the alternative was becoming too expensive. The only ones in my family who stayed were ones who hit it big and could afford Manhattan. New York became an all-or-nothing city, a place for the rich and the poor and people with special incentives to be there -- immigrants, gays, singles. Brooklyn needs to get back middle-class families, and it can't do it playing by Manhattan's rules."
 Could New York ever humble itself to emulate Jersey City and Los Angeles? It's hard to imagine the princes in City Hall and Albany ever surrendering their power over Brooklyn, but on this centennial it doesn't hurt to fantasize about deconsolidation.
The best plan is still probably the one put forward by Brooklyn's own Norman Mailer during his 1969 mayoral campaign. He proposed turning New York City into a separate state and then giving "every opportunity to neighborhoods to vote to become townships, villages, hamlets, sub-boroughs, tracts or small cities." He envisioned autonomous communities in charge of their own municipal services, dedicated to ideologies that "might run from Compulsory Free Love to Mandatory Attendance in Church on Sunday!"
In a deconsolidated New York, the independent local communities could have the option of buying some services, like sanitation or police, from the new state government, the way that independent cities do now from the Los Angeles county government. Transportation and other regional issues could be coordinated by agencies like the Port Authority or the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. A few broad social tasks could be entrusted to the Federal Government, particularly the redistribution of wealth -- a well-intentioned goal of New York's best men, but one that is beyond the scope of any city.
The hardest part of any divorce is dividing up the property and figuring how much income the poorer spouse needs to survive. Independent Brooklynites could afford to pay for their own basic services as well as people anywhere else. The per capita expenditures in New York for basic services -- schools, public safety, transportation, parks -- are about the same as in other cities. What makes New York such a big spender are its singularly costly housing projects, social programs and public debt. Only Manhattan has the tax revenues to support this life style. Since it was Manhattanites who ran up these bills, they could pay off the debt and finance a gradual phase-out of the welfare state in Brooklyn. It's not unreasonable for conquering princes to pay reparations.
In the new State of New York City, Brooklyn might become one city or revert to smaller communities, perhaps towns that once existed, like Bushwick and Flatbush. A deconsolidated New York would not be as socially fragmented and diffuse as Los Angeles -- Manhattan's dense core would always provide a common meeting place and spiritual center -- but it would feel different than New York does today. A deconsolidated city would be richer and more creative, yet less grandiose, less sweeping in its plans, less obsessed with having the biggest of everything.
Perhaps some Brooklynites would miss being part of the Big Apple. They might agree with the pamphlet circulated a century ago urging Brooklynites to merge with New York for the increased social prestige and civic pride of belonging to the first city of the world. But, as The Daily Eagle pointed out in response, Brooklyn's businesses do not need 'prestige.' They need solvency. And as its editor told that crowd on New Year's Eve 1897, Brooklyn's citizens could find another source of pride.
In proportion as we define ourselves, we shall respect ourselves, and in proportion as we respect ourselves will our brethren respect us, McElway said, and then he closed with a line that brought down the house: Though borough it may be, Brooklyn it is, Brooklyn it remains and Brooklynites are we!

GRAPHIC: Photos: Consolidation helped fatten up Manhattan; Brooklyn, meanwhile, lost its bustle (at right, the transfer station at Borough Hall around 1900) and even its waterfront (above, piers in Sunset Park).; Dumbo, or the Down Under the Manhattan Bridge Overpass neighborhood, used to thrive (middle left); today (top), it has more optimism than action, though David Walentas (above) has big plans. Far left, another Brooklyn loss, Ebbets Field.; Brooklyn (top) thrived into the 30's; by the 80's, Sam and Richard LeFrak (above) were building elsewhere. Now, projects like Metrotech (above right) are held up for years. Far right, standing room only in 1898. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Culver Pictures)
 
Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORY CITIES (90%); MERGERS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (87%); MAYORS (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); PUBLISHING (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



607 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 14; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 2981 words

HEADLINE: Welfare to Work: A Sequel

BYLINE: By Jason DeParle; Jason DeParle is a staff writer for the Magazine.

 BODY:
At 7:30 on a November school morning, the twins finally stir. They tumble off the couch in the kindergarten outfits they have worn for 24 hours and pad down the hall, all whispers and giggles. They turn the bathroom sink into a balance beam and dangle themselves from the shower rod. They paint luncheon meat with stripes of mayonnaise to make breadless breakfast sandwiches. What they cannot do is rouse their mother, who remains slumped on the couch with a worrisome case of depression and a lapsed prescription for Prozac.
"Fifteen minutes, skinny little girl," she says to a tap on her shoulder. "I ain't ready to get up." The tap continues, and her voice sharpens: "Girl! Would you stop!" 
 The apartment looks like a thrift shop hit by a cyclone. A month of dirty laundry sits stuffed in plastic bags and a week's dishes are scattered around the kitchen. The blinds are drawn, the room is dark and when Mary Ann Moore opens her eyes, she peers out with a cracked gaze.
By 8:15, she pulls herself up to brush her daughters' hair. By 8:30, she orders them into their coats and points them toward the door. "Bye, you little smookers -- I love you," she says, on her feet for a goodbye kiss. She watches from the window until they reach the Chicago schoolyard and returns for a day on the couch.
Three years ago, she was beating the sunlight to the streets. She was up at 3:30 A.M. the first time I visited her, snapping on lights and bundling up children. She was out the door at 5 and on the job, as a cook, by 6. Her car scarcely worked; the twins' father felt neglected, and the routine left her bone-tired. But after 14 years of public aid, she had kept the job for nearly a year and talked of escaping to the suburbs.
Now even she has a hard time explaining her tailspin into homelessness and addiction. Perhaps the depression keyed her drug relapse; certainly the relapse deepened her depression. Three years after starring as a welfare-to-work heroine, Moore is back among the 2,000 welfare families living in and around the public-housing high-rises of Cabrini-Green.
Impressed by the recent caseload declines, much of the country has already declared last Washington's monumental welfare overhaul a success. But the new system has barely begun to grapple with the Mary Ann Moores -- the one or two million long-term recipients who pose the greatest challenge. For all the drama of last year's debate, welfare is mostly a proxy for a far larger problem: the condition of the central cities. There are more people on welfare in Chicago alone than there are among the combined populations of Alaska, Delaware, Idaho, Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, Vermont and Wyoming. There are nearly as many welfare families in Cabrini-Green as there are in all of Wyoming.
Last year's debate brought extravagant claims on all sides about what time limits and work requirements would mean in these neighborhoods. Bemoaning the "stereotypes," one side argued that long-term welfare recipients were basically like everyone else -- just less lucky. Then it argued that new restrictions might cause children to starve. The other side warned of a welfare underclass so dysfunctional it posed a threat to civilization. Then it supposed that a legal finger snap would prompt the poor to stand up and prosper.
After spending a week with Moore, and piecing together her fall, it seems safe to say three things: She and many people around her very much need help. The old system wasn't providing it. To do better, the country will have
to do far more than celebrate caseload declines.
"It's like I went through a depressive stage," Moore says, her face puffy with fatigue. She is picking at a diner omelet and trying to explain what went wrong. Depression, drugs, a tangled life with an unemployed man -- Moore is talking about herself. But she is also describing the troubled landscape in which the new welfare programs will try to take root. She is mapping an ecosystem of inner-city defeat. What's missing is the spirited, self-mocking humor that used to abound despite the unhappy basics of her life: a childhood in Cabrini without a father; no high-school degree; four children by three men; dozens of jobs, and eventually an addiction to crack. Her mood swings could be biological, of course. Or they could be rooted in the violence that has saturated her life. (She saw her first neighborhood shooting when she was 8.) A doctor recommended an antidepressant a decade ago, but Moore, who is now 36, says, "I thought it was for crazy people or something."
Examined in psychological terms, her staccato bursts of work seem less a plan for self-support than an expression of underlying mania -- the mirror image of her current, depleted self. In the fall of 1994, Moore worked her kitchen job for stretches of two weeks at a time. She never went to bed; she had no bed. Then as now, she catnapped through the night on a living-room couch. "I'm depressed when I'm not doing something," she says.
At times, her mood swung around Michael, the father of the young twins. When I first visited in 1994 his place in her life was unclear. He was a handsome, articulate man in his mid-40's who had worked in a steel mill before he developed a cocaine habit. They met at a party where Moore had gotten high, and they conceived the twins that night. They reunited two years later, after Moore had finished a drug treatment program, when they happened to be staying at the same shelter. Outwardly, she rolled her eyes at his love poems and his roses. But she also kept him around.
The role of the men is one of the great missing elements of the welfare debate. Like many women leaving welfare for work, Moore had to contend with a man who felt left behind. Michael beseeched her to work less, and told her that her emotional neglect had pushed him to a relapse. When a relative of Moore's moved in with a crack problem of his own, the household was poised for a fall. Mary Anne was home one afternoon with a stomach virus when she awoke to a familiar smell. The pipe passed into her hands, and in just a few weeks, her job was gone, food was scarce and dealers were banging on the door to collect. "It got bad," she says. "It got real bad." It took her teen-age son, Marchello, to summon a posse of relatives to put the addicted men out. Moore says she later found powders, leaves and "something like an eyeball in a little, bitty medicine jar" that convinced her Michael had harmed her with voodoo. "Every time I tell somebody about that, they think I'm crazy," she says.
Whether by black magic or bad judgment, Moore virtually collapsed. Marchello, who is now 17, escaped on scholarship to a boarding school in Colorado. She sent her other son, Omotunde, now 8, to live with his father. And for most of the next two years, Moore and the girls, Roshea and Roshaun, became inner-city nomads. They slept on a couch in the overcrowded apartment that belongs to Moore's mother, and sublet rooms from Cabrini addicts for $100 a month.
Amazingly enough, throughout this time Moore mostly stayed employed. Her mother is a tenant manager in Cabrini, and when all else fails Moore signs on as a security guard. (In that job and others, she has rarely earned enough to leave welfare; over the last 10 years, she has received some cash aid in all but eight months.) Some theorists argue that work is a reforming force in itself: a bond to a larger community that brings meaning and purpose to life. Moore accepts the idea -- she feels better about herself when she works. But a job alone has never been enough to rescue her. "We'd get our paychecks, buy food, go off on a binge and go back to work two days later," she said.
When help finally came, it did not come from the welfare department, which simply mailed a monthly check. Years earlier, Moore had joined a Salvation Army program for homeless women and children, and the social workers there went to extraordinary efforts to stay in touch. Often unable to reach her by phone, they would show up at Cabrini with baskets of food; they once talked their way in to see her in the middle of a gang shooting. Their files reveal a sustained, personal relationship almost unheard of in the public realm: "She was supposed to work yesterday but the depression came over her....There has been gang fighting going on all morning and it is getting on her nerves... She had a lot of clothes over at L.'s house. ...She left there because he was starting to want sex from her... They are not eating well since MA did not get paid this week.'
By contrast, Moore's welfare file looks like a work sheet at H&R Block: it is choked with the arithmetic of grant calculation and devoid of any other insight. The Salvation Army workers have college degrees and six to eight clients at a time. Half of the welfare workers are high-school graduates and they carry caseloads of 180. They are the ones, as Illinois phases in the new welfare rules, who are expected to take charge of the nation's toughest social problems.
In the end, the Salvation Army all but dragged Moore back into drug treatment. Arriving there with the recidivist's shame, she wrote angry diatribes at herself. ("A supit fool. Thinking I alright because I have a job. when in fact I was working for the dope.") She also wrote apologetic letters to her family and friends, many of which lie unmailed at the bottom of her closet.
One is addressed to Toby Herr. At 54, Herr is a nervous, talky, leaf-thin woman whose prominence in the welfare world has surprised no one more than herself. Unlike her clients, she was raised in material security, but she describes her childhood as an 18-year panic attack. "When they called attendance in grammar school, I'd practice saying 'Here,' because I couldn't stand to hear my voice," she says. In 1968, Herr landed a job teaching grade school in Cabrini -- hardly a haven for the emotionally fragile. But she felt as though she had found a home. "I could identify with low self-esteem," she says.
Three decades later, Herr may know as much as anyone of the dynamics between inner-city women and work. In 1985, she converted a dozen years of Cabrini experience, teaching and evaluating social services into a shoestring employment program called Project Match. At first it seemed remarkably easy: her first eight clients got hired. But most quickly quit or got fired. "The job loss was staggering," she says. Or as she put it, in what has become a maxim of the field, "Leaving welfare is a process, not an event."
Few people cover the pitfalls as encyclopedically as Moore, who joined Project Match in 1989 and raced through eight jobs in the first three years. She drove a delivery truck; peddled nuts; fried eggs, and guarded a parking lot. She quit because her car died and her baby sitter fell through; because her boyfriends were jealous and she wanted to get high. Because "I was young-minded." Because "I just got tired." Because "I just got depressed."
The job losses posed a question to Herr that the country now has to face: how to design an effective program when failure is so frequent? Herr tries to reduce the time spent between jobs. She tries to get clients to learn from mistakes, while celebrating the "incremental progress" that even a short-lived job can represent. And she emphasizes a long-term relationship with clients that can unmask the underlying problems; Project Match helped Moore find her first treatment program.
The results look as good as any, but still the numbers are cautionary. Herr (with a research associate, Suzanne Wagner) has found that about 36 percent of her clients settle into stable employment within two years. Another 13 percent do so after a much longer period of spinning their wheels. That still means half either do no formal work (23 percent) or, like Moore, work intermittently but never stabilize (28 percent). "The question is, What do you do with this large group of moms who really don't function very well?" Herr says.
Last year, a Republican Congress and a Democratic President settled on an answer: time limits and work requirements. While most of her profession reacted with dismay, Herr has more complicated feelings. Thirty years in one of the nation's most blighted neighborhoods has convinced her that everyone can do something, even if it's just volunteering at a school. At the same time, she does not believe most Cabrini women can do what the law en-visions: work full time while raising children.
The law restricts most recipients to five years of Federal support in a lifetime. While states can grant extensions to 20 percent of their caseload, Herr thinks that won't be nearly enough. Her hope is that the law will serve as a sorting mechanism "to figure out who can do what" -- who can work full time; who can work part time; who needs to mix volunteer work with drug or mental-health treatment. It is revealing that her mission statement says nothing of "self-sufficiency," the buzzword of the moment. It aims at "economic and social stability," a more important goal. "We're trying to get people's lives together, not just get them off of welfare," she says.
One question is whether her notion of flexible-but-rising expectations can find any political support. (Herr says it might if recipients seem to progress -- a big if.) Another is whether caseworkers have the competence to formulate and enforce such individualized plans. And the country will still be left with a group -- "and it's not a small group," Herr says -- that cannot or will not comply. What to do then? It's easy to talk about orphanages. But as Herr notes, "Mary Ann, for all her shortcomings, has a very strong bond with her children." She may seem inadequate. She's also irreplaceable.
"We have no reason to believe a lot of pressure will push her forward, because it hasn't. But she can work. She does work. She needs to be in a system where she's closely monitored.
"I'm furious at her and I'm crazy about her," Herr says. "She is everyone's concern."
And she is lying on the couch in the early evening when Jean knocks on the door. A thin, neatly dressed woman with watery eyes, Jean comes in, sits on the floor, smokes cigarettes and says that she has been through drug treatment six times. She has ostensibly come to help with the chores, since Moore's grandmother has just died. It also appears that she has no place else to spend the night.
Moore never fully committed to the drug treatment program and left it in February without much of a plan. She moved to a shelter with the twins and mixed welfare with unemployment benefits. Her big break came in June when she landed a subsidized apartment in a private, well-guarded building a few blocks from Cabrini. It is her first home in nearly three years.
When I leave one morning last month, Moore is on the couch and Jean is in the kitchen, smoking. When I return in midafternoon, Moore smells like wine, and she volunteers that they've been drinking. When I pick her up for dinner, she meets me outside, and by now she is exploding with anger.
"I'm not stupid!" she says. "She's using me!"
She says the talk of chores was just a cover for an addict needing a place to stay. Moore's welfare payment had just arrived, and in her view, Jean borrowed the money and bought the bottle in the hope of igniting a binge. "She thought I'd have some wine and trigger off" -- get high -- "and just go spending money!"
"I'm vulnerable right now!" she says. "I'm grieving!"
In three years I've never seen her so upset. I'd known she was hurting when I came to Chicago, but I hadn't gauged the fullness of her pain and defeat. As we sit in the car, she rails at Jean and then she rails at herself: for her deficiencies as a worker, as a woman in recovery and as a parent. Then, oddly, she begins to apologize for a more obscure sin: her failure, three years ago, to thank the readers of the Magazine article who sent her money. She chooses this, of all times, to worry that she is not teaching her children to say thanks. "I didn't send a card or nothing!" she says. "It's hard to tell your kids things when you don't practice it."
Sitting beside this grief-stricken woman, the welfare debate seems far removed. Time limits, work requirements, bonuses to reduce out-of-wedlock births -- the welfare bill is 250 pages of small print rooted in theories of cause and effect. Do this and the poor will do that. But Moore's life is guided by different physics: the constant collisions between the decency of her intentions and the depth of her wounds.
The discomforting truth about situations like this is that no one really knows what to do. Even in her crisis, Moore seems to suggest as much with a flash of self-awareness. "I said, 'Jean, I cannot help you, 'cause what I'm going through, I can't even help myself."'
After I left there were a few more developments. Throughout our visit, I had noticed that Moore was talking about Michael in surprisingly nostalgic tones. ("He cared about me, but the way he cared -- it was dangerous.") After a separation of three years, he began writing and calling again, and he was now disabled with kidney disease. His first visit came a week after I left. Moore played it down, but the reunion continued over subsequent days.
About the same time, Herr spent half an hour waiting outside Moore's apartment. They were supposed to go get the Prozac refilled, but Moore never appeared. And with Michael disabled, it turns out that the twins now qualify for Social Security payments. Since the $594 total exceeds Moore's $485 welfare grant, her case has just closed. For her, at least, the great national welfare debate has just become a moot point. She is off the rolls, an addition to the celebrated statistics, and as much in need as ever.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Moore, above, in 1994, and at right, sadder and wiser, with her daughters this year.; Moore's twins now qualify for Social Security, but that doesn't guarantee them a decent space to play. (Photographs by Lyle Ashton Harris)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); URBAN AREAS; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (78%); FAMILY (76%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (69%); HOMELESSNESS (61%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON; MOORE, MARY ANN

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



608 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 7; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: SUNDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1997;
LET IT SNOW

 BODY:

* Avalanches killed 35 people in North America last season; usually, back-country skiers, snowboarders and, increasingly, snowmobilers are the victims. * Forget about getting out of harm's way, even on a snowmobile. Avalanches have been clocked at up to 200 miles per hour.* In 1975 in Bird Creek, Alaska, an avalanche flattened a Ford Econoline van; the van's remains were no thicker than four inches in most places. * Ski patrollers often use World War II or Korean War-era ordnance to touch off pre-emptive avalanches. * The Department of Transportation in Washington State has its own tank, complete with loud cannon. * In 1996, Tom Abell of Kodiak, Alaska, returned to the spot where he and a friend (who died) were buried by snow the year before. Abell got buried again, and survived. "The second time was a real heart-beater," he says.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON STATE MEDIA DIRECTORY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AVALANCHES AVALANCHES (91%); SKIING (90%); SNOWMOBILING (90%); WINTER SPORTS (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (88%); SNOWBOARDING (88%); WORLD WAR II (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); KOREAN WAR (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



609 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 9; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: SUNDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1997: DEFENSE;
May the Force Stay With Us

 BODY:
It's that time of year when everybody takes stock, hoping to become just a little bit wiser in the year ahead. As part of its 50th anniversary in 1997, and apparently believing itself to be in "serious jeopardy of ceasing to exist in the not-too-distant future," the United States Air Force did that and more -- much more -- with the release of "Air Force 2025." This little-noticed, 3,300-page, $1 million report was designed to assess threats that the world may face in the next millennium. The Air Force invited hundreds of its cadets and students to contribute, alongside futuristic bigwigs like Edward Teller and the creators of "Terminatorand "Robocop." The results sometimes read like a sequel to "Starship Troopers." Here's a look.
The report outlines several "alternative futures" for the world, each with a pet name. In Gulliver's Travails, the U.S. is driven mad by pesky foreign terrorists, who kill 250,000 people in 2002 with a biological-weapons attack at the Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City (1). In Zaibatsu, Japanese-led multinational corporations seem "to control everything" -- well, except for an asteroid (2) that threatens the globe in 2007. In the Digital Cacophony script (3), Wall Street gets zapped in 2012 with a "super high energy radio frequency... wave" that wipes out "all financial data bases." King Khan (4) has it that the U.S. will become a "has-been," buried under an "immigration tsunami" by 2002. This ushers in the dawning of a possible "Asian Millennium," with a Khanian Confederation (5) -- China, Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia -- stepping up as the largest economic power by 2024. 
 Big threats will require a large, capable arsenal. The report suggests that the Air Force could own the weather by 2025, dousing enemy troops with techno-generated storms (6). Another possibility is large-scale projection of holograms (7) that might drop huge, scary mirages in front of enemy warriors. Actual pilots become scarce: "brilliant warriors" will man the mouse-and-keyboard stations while unmanned aerial vehicles (8) handle most large-scale air strikes. A fleet of intercontinental hypersonic fighters (9) will go anywhere in the world in two to four hours. Things get complicated in orbit, too, where robo bugs (10) -- tiny, remote-controlled satellites -- might zip around, short-circuiting the space assets of foes. Chillingly, all this power could fall into the hands of the Zaibatsu when multinationals "buy" a U.S. presidency in 2020 (11).
On the bright side, none of it may happen. "This report contains fictional representations," the authors note. "Any similarities to real people or events are ... unintentional."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SINGAPORE (75%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US AIR FORCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SINGAPORE (75%); UTAH, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY; FORECASTS; AIR FORCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILLENNIUM (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); TERRORISM (67%); IMMIGRATION (67%); OLYMPICS (66%); WINTER OLYMPICS (52%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (50%); 

PERSON: EDWARD TELLER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



610 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1818 words

HEADLINE: A Radio Giant's Purchases on L.I. Raise Antitrust Questions

BYLINE: By STEWART AIN 

 BODY:
WHEN WLIR-FM, an indepently owned radio station, wanted to broadcast the Fourth of July fireworks from Jones Beach, the State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation denied the request.
"We were shut out, because WBAB, WALK and WBLI have the Parks Department locked up," the general manager of WLIR, John W. Caracciolo, said. 
 WALK and WBLI, each transmitting at 50,000 watts, are the most powerful on Long Island, and WALK-FM, according to the popularity ratings, is the most popular station on the Island.
The domination of the Long Island market did not present a problem until July 1996, when the Chancellor Media Company of Irving, Tex., the second largest radio group in the nation and the owner of WALK in Patchogue since 1994, bought WBAB in Babylon and WBLI in Patchogue from SFX Broadcasting Inc.
SFX, whose owner is Robert F. X. Sillerman, chancellor of Long Island University's Southampton campus, agreed to sell WBAB and WBLI, plus its two other Long Island stations, for two Chancellor stations in Jacksonville, Fla., and $11 million.
Since the announcement, said Mr. Caracciolo of WLIR, his station has been trying to counter the political power of those three stations.
The three work together on promotional events, giving "top exposure on their stations" to their activities, he said. Although WLIR has a transmission tower that simulcasts on the East End, making it the sole Long Island station that can be heard from Manhattan to Montauk, it cannot compete with the three powerful stations.
It is their ability to reach the Long Island audience that proves so attractive to advertisers.
"A mall in the area opened, and we wanted to do some advertising for them," but found it impossible to compete, Mr. Caracciolo said, adding:
"They came in and said: 'Put your money on us. We have the top three radio stations on Long Island.' They have an arsenal. How can you beat it? I can't. I'm fighting for a piece of the pie, and they have an unfair piece of it."
Last month the Justice Department filed an antitrust suit to block Chancellor's purchase of WBAB and WBLI. The Government said the acquisition would increase Chancellor's share of the market, from 33 to more than 65 percent, measured by either radio advertising revenue or listeners.
Long Island is the 15th largest radio market in the country.
"Prices for radio advertising for coverage of Suffolk County would likely increase," the suit said, "and the quality of promotional services would likely decline, especially to regional and local customers."
The radio industry is watching the suit carefully.
The general manager of WRHU-FM at Hofstra, Bruce M. Avery, pointed out that the spring Arbitron rating listed WALK-FM as the most popular station on the Island. The ratings put WBLI-FM in third place and WBAB-FM 16th.
"This is a fascinating issue, one of those stories that has everything," said Mr. Avery.
The Telecommunications Act of 1996 eased ownership limits for radi stations, , setting off a frenzy of buying and selling. Since last year 4,000 of the 11,000 stations in the country have changed hands.
The Justice Department stepped into five deals and negotiated changes that resulted in 14 sales. In one case the Government told Jacor Communications to sell a station at its headquarters in Cincinnati, to keep its share of the advertising in that market below 50 percent.
But when the department and Chancellor failed to reach an accord, the department sued.
Mr. Sillerman said the sale was good for Long Island.
"It doesn't matter whose name is on the stock certificate," Mr. Sillerman said, "but who's running the station and whether he has the sensitivity and sensibility to fulfill the needs of the local community."
A wealthy corporate owner can help insure responsive programming, said Mr. Sillerman, who is Chancellor of Southampton College. He said SFX, a company with several stations in a market -- the limit is now eight -- was able to be "experimental and specialize, rather than appealing to the lowest denominator."
"With the number of frequencies we had," he added, "we were able to provide broader and more diverse programming."
The Federal suit quoted an executive of Chancellor as saying the acquisition would "make Chancellor the dominant radio broadcaster" on Long Island.
The brief noted that all three stations frequently receive the highest ratings among demographic groups most important to local advertisers and that Chancellor and SFX generate the most advertising revenue among Island stations.
The suit said until the sale WALK-FM and WBLI-FM and WBAB-FM had been "locked in a daily battle against each other for listeners and for advertising revenue."
"Suffolk County advertisers over the years have played the Chancellor and SFX stations off against each other to get lower advertising rates and better promotional services," the court papers said, adding that the competition for advertisers was an "essential element in keeping down prices for Suffolk County radio advertisers."
"The acquisition would end this battle," the brief said. "In Chancellor's own words describing the acquisition: 'The war is won.' "
The lawyer for Chancellor, Edward P. Henneberry of Washington, said the purchase was in line with the intent of the new law, consolidating stations to increase profitability in a financially ailing industry.
Judge Joanna Seybert of Federal District Court in Uniondale is overseeing the suit. No court date has been set.
Mr. Henneberry said the rationale for the suit was faulty, because it views the Long Island market in a vacuum and does not consider the domination by New York City stations.
"Seventy percent of people in Suffolk County who listen to radio listen to New York City stations," he said.
The three stations, he said, are not heard on the East End, with their audiences largely limited to western Suffolk.
The stations, he added, also battle for advertising dollars with newspapers and cable television. Long Island is the largest cable market in the country in terms of advertising dollars.
The radio industry as a whole, Mr. Henneberry said, attracts 7 percent of all advertising revenue.
After buying WBLI and WBAB, Chancellor, which owns three other Long Island stations, was able to amass a listener base that exceeded the number of daily readers of Newsday. "We then went to several human resource directors and asked them to place help wanted ads on radio," he said. "What you couldn't do with one station you could do with three. The stations complemented each other."
Mr. Avery said he had heard of one drawback to that. The owner of a small store was told that he would have to buy time on three or four stations under the same ownership instead of just the one that he wanted.
The general manger of WALK, WBLI and WBAB, Bill Edwards, said that was not a practice at his stations, adding that each station had a separate sales force that sold time on its own station. Occasionally a salesman sells time for the other stations, too, he said, but only for promotional events like the Fourth of July fireworks.
Mr. Edwards said WBAB and WBLI had a contract for years with the parks agency for exclusive broadcast rights. This year WALK was added.
Robert Williams, president of Topline Advertising in Ronkonkoma, the largest buyer of radio and cable advertising on the Island, said he had not seen any changes in advertising rates since the change 18 months ago.
Asked about reports that salesmen were adding the third station free when a customer bought time on the other two, Mr. Williams said he had not heard that. "Could they do it?" he asked. "Possibly. Will they? Who knows. It's too early to tell. Everyone is being cautious of what they say because of the court suit. There are concerns, obviously."
In the suit, the Justice Department responded to Mr. Henneberry's argument that New York City stations were the primary competitors. The Government cited sales reports from WBAB over the years saying that other Long Island stations were the "primary barriers to increasing rates."
The Government added that for many advertisers no other media is as cost effective.
City stations, the brief said, charge at least double for commercials for each Suffolk listener, the suit said, and advertisers do not want to "waste their advertising dollars on listeners in other parts of the New York tristate metropolitan area who are unlikely to be their customers."
Not mentioned in the suit were the effects of the purchase on programming. A professor of radio at the New York Institute of Technology, Thomas G. Burke, said although Chancellor enjoyed a good reputation, he was concerned about a "one-sided slant in the news when everyone is working for the same parent company."
"If that parent has a vested interest it wants to espouse, especially in corporate or economic stories," Professor Burke said, "the news director may tailor the news to reflect the boss' philosophy."
As large companies take over independent stations niche programming will disappear, Mr. Burke said, adding, "I'm fearful that rather than having different programming for different markets there will be a sameness."
Dr. Judith A. Cramer, general manager of WCWP-FM at C. W. Post, said companies that bought radio stations were seeking profits by focusing on specific audiences.
"It's all about targets and what target will make us the most money, which is not necessarily what listeners want," Dr. Cramer said. "If I owned a radio station I'd do the same thing. But as a listener and radio purist I have a hard time with that."
Dr. Cramer said she had noticed that WALK appeared to have reduced local news, concentrating on "remote programming that is promotional and doing a lot less hard new local reporting than it used to."
"A lot of it is about image," she said, "and if stations can get by without gathering news and spend its money somewhere else, they will."
Mr. Edwards said WALK had not changed its news team. The changes, he said, are that Carol Cohen's reports are now on WALK-AM in addition to WGBB and WBAB, and that the morning news anchor WGBB and WALK-AM, David North, reports later in the day on WALK-FM.
"WALK has had a commitment to the news for years," Mr. Edwards said. "It is the way we beat the New York stations. We are going to serve Long Island listeners."
Rather than sounding more alike, he added, the purchase has made the three stations "more diversified than ever."
WALK-FM aims for established adult listeners, WBLI young adults and WBAB a rock-and-roll audience. WGBB and WALK-AM seek an older audience.
The top Federal antitrust official, Assistant Attorney General Joel I. Klein, said this year that his office was going to scrutinize any radio merger that gave one company more than 35 percent of a metropolitan regional market.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Weiss, foreground, and Mark Daniels, disk jockeys at WALK. Chancellor Media, owner of WALK, faces an antitrust suit. (Lois Raimondo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SFXBA (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CHANCELLOR MEDIA CO; SFX BROADCASTING INC CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (84%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHANCELLOR MEDIA CO; SFX BROADCASTING INC LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); STATE PARKS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); RADIO ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (75%); MARKET SHARE (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (69%); EVENT MARKETING (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); 

PERSON: AIN, STEWART

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



611 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 4; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: Opponents of Pataki's Lilco Plan to Offer a Bill in Albany

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
BROADENING efforts to block Gov. George E. Pataki's plan for a partial state takeover of Lilco, opponents are turning to Albany.
Seven Assembly members from Long Island, backed by local groups against Mr. Pataki's plan, are proposing a Ratepayers Bill of Rights Act that outlines steps that they said would cut electric rates in the region 20 percent initially and 45 percent in five years. 
 In contrast to Mr. Pataki's plan, which promises an initial 17 percent cut, the alternative does not involve the sale of $7.3 billion in tax-exempt state bonds to finance the takeover and reduce rates. Opponents of Mr. Pataki's plan said borrowing $7.3 billion meant saddling Long Islanders with $23 billion in debt that would be repaid over 35 years.
The critics said the rates and charges for transmission lines to pay off the debt would shut out competition from other suppliers and deny Long Island the benefit of technology that could lower rates.
The Assembly members, five Democrats and two Republicans, said their approach would limit to five years the time that Lilco could continue to recover costs for the defunct Shoreham nuclear power plant from its customers. That would open the way to the larger rate reductions in their proposal.
The bill says the agreement in 1989 between Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and the Long Island Lighting Company to close Shoreham, which allowed the utility to recover the costs of the plant, is "not a permanent contractual obligation that forces ratepayers to pay for Shoreham."
The Assembly members are Steven Englebright of East Setauket, Paul E. Harenberg of Oakdale, Debra Mazzarelli of Patchogue, David S. Sidikman of Old Bethpage and Robert K. Sweeney of Babylon, all Democrats, and Thomas F. Barraga of West Islip and Fred W. Thiele Jr. of Bridgehampton, both Republicans.
Polls show opinion on Mr. Pataki's plan is sharply divided. Supporters of that plan said the Cuomo-Lilco accord was legally binding and allowed Lilco to recover so-called prudent costs for Shoreham, a total that is generally calculated at $4.5 billion.
The Shoreham debt, established as a regulatory asset in the pact in 1989, is, by virtually all accounts, the principal cause for high electric rates on Long Island. Opponents of Mr. Pataki's plan said the 1989 agreement guaranteed the recovery of plant costs for only three years. Supporters of the plan and Lilco said that was incorrect.
Richard M. Kessel, chairman of the Long Island Power Authority, the state agency that conceived and would carry out the plan, called the legislators' proposal preposterous. Mr. Kessel said any plan to annul the accord would be illegal, adding: "We may not like the contract, but government cannot take it away by fiat in a democracy. It's great to be out there saying you can cut rates by 45 percent. But that's impossible. This bill isn't going to go anywhere, and everybody knows that."
A spokeswoman for Lilco, Elaine Davis, said that there was "nothing in the proposed legislation that would suggest the Lipa plan," the plan backed by Mr. Pataki, "is not the best plan for Long Island ratepayers."
"The proposed legislation says the Shoreham settlement is not permanent," Ms. Davis said. "It is. We have a binding contract that has been affirmed by the current Governor and two Public Service Commission chairmen, including the current chairman."
Delays in putting the plan in effect, Ms. Davis said, cost the regional economy $1 million a day.
Mr. Kessel said that a 45 percent rate reduction would require "firing half the Lilco work force."
Assemblyman Barraga said that contention was a "fear tactic," adding that Mr. Pataki had rushed to support the plan put together for him by the power authority before having analyzed it thoroughly. "With all due respect," Mr. Barraga said, "when you look at the complexity it should have taken him a lot longer to decipher it."
Mr. Pataki, a Republican who is planning to seek a second term next year, has made the takeover a priority on Long Island. Nassau and Suffolk were strongholds for him in 1994.
Under his plan, the authority would use the money from the bonds to buy the Lilco transmission and distribution system and refinance the Shoreham debt. The authority, which would achieve other savings because of tax exemptions, would contract with Lilco to manage the system for eight years. Lilco would continue to own generating stations and would have a 15-year agreement with the authority on supplying power.
The authority would also buy Lilco's 18 percent share in the Nine Mile Point No. 2 nuclear power complex at Scriba. That part of the plan is particularly unpopular among opponents because of decommissioning costs and financial liability in the event of an accident.
Mr. Pataki remains firmly committed to the plan, a spokesman said. If all goes according to projections, the plan will have crucial approvals from the Internal Revenue Service and the Federal Energy Regulatory Energy Commission in time to put into effect rate reductions and deliver small cash refunds to all Lilco customers before the election.
Published reports say Mr. Pataki is angry about opposition to his plan in Suffolk. The County Legislature voted this month to spend $800,000 for lawyers and consultants to oppose it. The Legislature remains the center of opposition to the plan.
Other opponents include the Initiative for Competitive Energy, a coalition of business, civic and environmental groups; Ratepayers Against Lilco Bailout, and the Citizens Advisory Panel.
Based in part on a plan by Charles M. Studness of Manhasset, an expert on utility finances who has criticized Mr. Pataki's plan as a scheme to enrich Wall Street, the bill calls on the Public Service Commission to stop exempting Lilco from regulations ushering in competition elsewhere in the state. Citing what it said was excessive cash flow and excessively high operating and maintenance expenses, the plan asks the P.S.C. to cut Lilco rates by 10 percent immediately and return over three years money that is owned customers from a $150 million settlement of a civil racketeering law suit brought by Suffolk in the 1980's and from $625 million tax refund for overassessment of the Shoreham plant.
The measure, to be introduced early in the session that begins next month, has no sponsor in the State Senate.
At least one proponent, Mr. Sidikman, acknowledged that its chances were slim. "It is just one of the steps we are taking to attempt to see that the Governor's plan doesn't happen," said Mr. Sidikman, the lone Assembly member from Nassau among the sponsors. "Resistance is growing."
Mr. Barraga was more positive. "This is a very volatile situation, especially in Suffolk County," he said. "Don't think that you won't have a Senate sponsor. The pressure is going to be on."
A consultant to the Hauppauge Industrial Association, Wayne Prospect, said that that group and others would rally around the proposal. "The Assembly bill gives us a beachhead in Albany to aggressively fight the Lilco-Lipa deal," he said.
The association is a member of the Initiative for Competitive Energy.
Mr. Prospect said supporters would approach the all-Republican Senate delegation from Long Island to find a co-sponsor. "It's going to be a major confrontation with Suffolk"s Republican State Senators," Mr. Prospect, a former Democratic member of the County Legislature, said. "They will have to explain their failure to support a bill that protects ratepayers. They will have to explain why they are such fervent supporters of the Governor's deal, which does nothing but bail out Lilco shareholders."
A former trustee of the Long Island Power Authority, Irving Like of Ratepayers Against Lilco Bailout and a lawyer long involved in issues related to Shoreham and Lilco, said groups against Mr. Pataki's plan would try to recruit supporters among students at colleges on the Island.
Mr. Like and others said officials from other parts of the state had to be alerted to the dangers of Mr. Pataki's plan. The state, he added, would be obliged to back the bonds if the Long Island Power Authority failed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (84%); NG (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO NATIONAL GRID PLC (84%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITY RATES (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); POWER FAILURES (76%); POWER PLANTS (76%); TAX RELIEF (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); CONTRACTS LAW (69%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (66%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); RATHER, JOHN EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



612 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2137 words

HEADLINE: Suddenly Single in the Suburbs, and in Middle Age

BYLINE: By NANCY RUBIN 

 BODY:
SOME married soon after high school or college. Others continued to date for an additional 10 years before saying "I do." Others ended first marriages, only to rewed with equally unhappy results.
Whatever their histories, the number of people divorced in their middle years is increasingly visible. Census figures show that the percentage of Americans divorced between 40 and 54 in 1995 made up nearly 14 percent of the population, up from 11 percent a decade ago. 
 Specific figures are not available on the marital status of Long Islanders by age. The State Health Department found that of the 2,125 divorces filed in Nassau and Suffolk Counties, , one-fourth involved couples who had been married 15 to 30 years.
Officials, lawyers and other experts attribute much of the increase in midlife divorces to social and economic changes over the last 30 years.
"It's definitely changed," the Director of Women's Services in Nassau, Geraldine Linton, said. "And now that women have had some role models ahead of them it's easier for them than it used to be. Women who work and are unhappy in their marriages are more likely to get divorced once their children leave, because they have something to fall back upon."
A major factor are the personal and social changes of midlife, Ms. Linton said, adding:
"It may be related to the empty nest syndrome. When the children are there they often act as buffers between the husband and wife. But when they leave, when the connections with children are gone, suddenly you've got two people staring at each other across the dinner table without that much in common, and everything dries up."
Some people attribute the rising divorce rate to expanded expectations.
"Many of us, especially in the suburbs, where people tend to be upwardly mobile, are raised with the illusion that once we reach middle age we will be on Easy Street," said Dr. Michael Watson, a psychotherapist in Bayville and the director of the Professional Forensic Group. "But actually it's often the middle years when life is most difficult."
Although the children may have left, many continue to be financially dependent. That, combined with aging parents, means that the middle aged are often burdened with added responsibilities.
"The standard position for most middle-aged people is that they are facing their own aging and simultaneously not accomplishing the goal of being happy and secure," Dr. Watson said. Those disappointments, combined with the accommodations that couples have to make in the empty-nest years, can jeopardize relationships.
Other disappointments may include business failures or debt. "It's a form of denial," Harriette M. Steinberg, a matrimonial lawyer in Westbury, said. "There's a sense that it's time to get out. So the marriage gets the blame. Divorce becomes a way out, because, frankly, it cuts off responsibility for everything after a period of time."
One consequence is economic duress. "We see a lot of women who are frightened about how they're going to support themselves," Ms. Linton said. "Most cannot maintain the style of life they had when they were married. Many women call because they cannot maintain the house, and their homes go into foreclosure."
Many middle-age Long Island women do not work outside the house while they raise their children. A lawyer for the Nassau Coalition Against Domestic Violence, Helen Scofield, said: "This is especially true for women in their 40's and 50's who were raised with the expectation that they would be homemakers and mothers and that their husbands would be providers. At that age it's very difficult to get a well-paying job, and no one can live on a minimum wage."
Courts routinely award half the house to the woman but the maintenance is usually for a limited time.
"In most cases," Ms. Scofield said, "the man is better set up. Chances are he's been working all his life and has an income and pension plan. While she may be entitled to half of that, she has to hire a lawyer to force him to share it."
On Long Island housing costs are high, Ms. Scofield said. "I've seen houses in foreclosure in some affluent families and wonder how could anybody do that. I don't think there's tremendous understanding by the courts about how much it costs to live here."
A study in June 1996 published in The American Sociological Review indicated that women's postdivorce standard of living decreased by 27 percent and men's increased by 10 percent. Yet divorced middle-age men have their own troubles.
"While a divorced man may make more money than his ex-wife, the courts often order that he pays for everything he paid for before, as well as maintaining his own household," said Mark Strauss, who practices family and matrimonial law in Flushing. "That often means he has to continue to work very hard and has few dollars left to live on himself."
In addition, men often suffer a loss of connection to the family home and their community. "Men often experience their wives as keepers of the home, and when they lose that, when they lose their refrigerator, the Sunday barbecues and their nest, it can be quite disorienting," said Joan Hertz, a psychoanalyst in Hicksville who often treats divorcing couples. "In contrast women tend to keep the connections, especially if she has remained in the family home with the kids."
One solution for newly divorced men is remarriage. "What men tend to do is re-establish a second family and relive the whole round of family responsibility once again," said Dr. Watson.
Men who remain single may have to learn to establish a household. "One of the things that upset me the most was learning to prepare my own meals -- that, and taking care of my clothes," said Bruce Hasnas of Huntington.
After his divorce four years ago Mr. Hasnas attended a cooking class at a local high school, and he learned to wash his own laundry. "I discovered it really wasn't so difficult and that I could handle it," he said.
Because some divorced fathers fear losing daily contact with their children, a number remain in Nassau or Suffolk, often in the town where their children go to school.
"I bought a house in the same neighborhood so that my kids can stay with me as comfortably as with my ex-wife," a divorced father, Michael Kisver of Jericho, said.
Spouses frequently experience a sharp sense of isolation from former friends and neighbors after a divorce. "To begin with," Dr. Watson said, "Long Island is traditionally the bastion of the married. And once you get divorced it's more likely in the suburbs that you get dropped like a hot potato. Very often both sides of the couple feel like they've been abandoned by their entire social structure."
Such was the case for Marcia Feuer of Westbury. "We were all married and had a decent life and kids and husbands," Ms. Feuer recounted. "But once you're divorced life changes drastically. Even when a couple has well-established roots in the community, those who become divorced find they no longer have as much in common with old married friends."
"It's difficult to be middle aged and live here in such a coupled world," said a sales representative from North Babylon. "Until you get out and start mingling with others and get involved in activities and organizations it's very lonely."
"Both men and women," Dr. Watson said, "have enormous difficulty trying to meet people of the opposite sex in the suburbs. But it's much more difficult for women because there are fewer single men around."
One reason for that scarcity is that many suburban divorced men tend to remarry quickly while others move to the city. Census statistics from 1990 indicated that Nassau and Suffolk had 39,771 divorced men and 67,589 divorced women.
Another problem is that older men often prefer to date younger women. "It's become ever so much more difficult to date now than in the past," said a 50-year-old Oyster Bay woman who had been married for 18 years before her divorce 8 years ago.
"The men my age want to date 35-year-olds and those who are in their 60's are too old for me."
A partial solution has been the creation of clubs and social activities specifically designed for those who have become single in mid-life. Perhaps the best known of these is The Dallenger, a nightclub in the Garden City Hotel that is host to dances on Friday nights for those over 40. The club, which opened in June 1996 with live music and video screens, accommodates over 1,000 single middle-aged Long Islanders on Friday nights.
The club's popularity, according to Brian Rosenberg, general manager of The Dallenger, is as much a result of the proliferation of Long Island singles as it is of the club's marketing techniques. "The baby boomers are now getting divorced and many of them live on the Island," Mr. Rosenberg said. "They're back out there again. And this time it's no longer the health club scene but nightclubs where people can talk and meet."
A survey conducted at The Dallenger showed the needs of that older singles population who wanted to meet others at the club. "What we found is that our guests don't want the music so loud that they can't talk, they don't like cigar smoke and they want a mix of music from the 60's to the 90's," said Mr. Rosenberg. The club's goal, he added was "to focus on fun and entertainment and not necessarily be a place where people expect to find a mate, but where they meet others with whom to socialize."
For Francisca Turi, a divorced mother from Deer Park, The Dallenger represents such an opportunity. "It took me a long time to raise my daughter," she said. "And it got to the point where I was sitting home alone and waving good-bye to the kids as they went out. That's when I decided to go out myself, to come here and meet people. Ideally, I'd like to find someone to be with for the rest of my life, to grow old together. But meanwhile I'm just here to have fun."
Other Long Island organizations offer still more creative ways to meet middle-aged singles. Among the best known are the semimonthly Saturday night tennis parties at Rockville Raquet and the Sunday night parties at the Jericho Westbury Tennis Club sponsored by Marion Smith, an entrepreneur. "Playing tennis is an easy way to meet others," said Mrs. Smith, who began giving tennis parties on Long Island 14 years ago. "It's a good way to get some exercise, hone your tennis skills and make new friends."
Mrs. Smith, who organizes singles dances at local country clubs and in Manhattan hotels, has over 14,000 Long Island singles on her mailing list. Mrs. Smith maintains that it is easier for singles to socialize on Long Island than it was in the past.
"A decade ago it was more difficult to be single in the suburbs because there were fewer divorced people and many moved to the city. But today, many of the divorced people have remained in the suburbs. They like the outdoors, the tennis, the golfand the amenities that the suburbs offer," she said.
The growing singles population in the suburbs has also motivated some individuals to start activities through nearby institutions. Among them is the Single Friends group of the Nassau County Museum of Art. In 1995, two single middle-aged members of that museum approached the director, Constance Schwartz. "They felt the museum had such splendid resources, talented docents and magnificent atmosphere that it would a wonderful place for singles to meet," said Mrs. Schwartz.
Before long, the museum announced a six-program membership called Singles Friend. "We were so besieged with people that we finally had to limit the membership," said Mrs. Schwartz.
Today the museum accomodates 500 singles, most of whom are middle-aged, in their Singles Friends group. One reason for the program's popularity, according to Mrs. Schwartz, is its location. "We understand that the museum has a certain atmosphere where people feel safe, where they feel they're going to meet a different level of person than they might in a bar."
One of those enthusiasts was Joan Oliver, a former teacher and an aspiring artist who recently attended a wine-tasting party at the museum. Like many divorced middle-aged individuals, Ms. Oliver believes that being single can be viewed as an opportunity to explore interests she neglected when she was married, rather than as an empty time between mates.
"I suppose that being single can be difficult if you make finding a mate the sole purpose of what you do," said Ms. Oliver, who has been divorced for seven years after a long marriage. "But that's not my focus. I don't go to activities specifically because they are designed for singles. I participate in activities that interest me. Being single can be interesting as long as you keep an open attitude and simply try to enjoy what is."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Island, like the nation, is seeing a rise in divorced middle-aged singles. Some gather at The Dallenger, a club inside the Garden City Hotel, that caters to people over 40. (pg. 1); Patrons get acquainted at The Dallenger in Garden City, a popular spot for divorced middle-age singles. A couple dancing at The Dallenger. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 
Illustration by Gorka Sampedro

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: SINGLE PERSONS; SUBURBS; LIFE STYLES MARRIAGE (90%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SUBURBS (85%); FAMILY LAW (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); PARENTS (76%); EMPTY NESTERS (74%); WOMEN WORKERS (73%); CENSUS (72%); LAWYERS (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (62%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (60%); AGING (60%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (56%); FORENSICS (50%); 

PERSON: RUBIN, NANCY

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



613 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 11; Page 2; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Habitats/East 140th Street Between Brook and Willis Avenues;
Rundown Block Revived With Details of Its Past

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER 

 BODY:
HATTIE WILLIAMS got more than a new apartment this year. She got a new neighborhood.
After some 30 years of watching as her Bronx home fell into disrepair and drug dealers took over street corners, her historic block of city-owned tenements on East 140th Street in the Mott Haven section homes finally got some attention. Not only did the tenements get repairs, but they were historically correct improvements that take the neighborhood back to its more stately past. 
 "You hear the saying, 'You can't fight City Hall,' " said Ms. Williams, a mother of six who has lived at 455 East 140th Street since 1965. "Then someone comes along and says, 'Yes you can.' Sure enough we got something done."
The building in which Ms. Williams lives was one of seven tenements with a total of 114 units on the block between Brook and Willis Avenues selected for a pilot housing rehabilitation program called Neighborhood Entrepreneurs Program, which was created by the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development.
The program is sponsored jointly by the agency and the New York City Housing Partnership, a private, nonprofit intermediary between government, builders and community groups.
As part of the project local entrepreneurs are identified to manage and own the buildings. The partnership, which took ownership of the seven buildings during the rehabilitation, coordinated the financing and provided technical assistance.
The purpose of the Neighborhood Entrepreneurs Program is to put such buildings back in the hands of private owners -- in this case, Josue Velazquez, a local landlord, who will operate and eventually own the seven buildings.
Mr. Velazquez invested $50,000 in the project.
CITIBANK provided a $9.7 million construction loan, part of a $24 million commitment to the program in 1996. After construction the Department of Housing Preservation and Development will hold a long-term interest-only mortgage of $6.6 million at a nominal interest rate, with the principal repayable after 30 years.
Operating reserves will come from funds generated by the tax credit programs for historic rehabilitation and low-income housing.
What helps set this low-income housing initiative apart is that the improvements included restoring the historic details of the buildings, which were completed about 1910. The Municipal Art Society selected the renewal project as one of its winners in the 1998 New York Preservation Awards.
"They did a terrific job of rehabilitating those facades," said Vanessa Gruen, director of special projects for the Municipal Art Society. "This was not some millionaire's home. This was done in a rather poor neighborhood."
To some extent the historic nature of the neighborhood -- the Mott Haven District was listed in the National Register of Historic Places in 1980 and designated a New York City Historic District in 1994 -- dictated that renovations be historically sensitive.
It also made the project eligible for additional tax credits.
"It was a great opportunity to marry historic preservation with the creation of affordable housing," said Veronica White, president of the New York City Housing Partnership.
The city had owned 455 East 140th Street since it foreclosed for nonpayment of taxes in 1978. But the city was not a particularly good landlord, Ms. Williams said. Although there were some efforts to upgrade the buildings in the 80's, they become overcrowded and run down.
In 1990, the block, which is home to Public School 40, was featured in an article in The Daily News that detailed how students were not allowed on the school playground because of fears of gunplay among drug dealers.
Looking at the fresh-faced buildings shining in the morning sun, it's hard to imagine what they once looked out on. While work is still being done on the second phase of the project, the buildings where work has been completed feature wood and glass doors like the original ones (they replaced heavy metal industrial doors).
Graffiti is gone. The ornate sheet metal cornices have been repaired and the delicate detailing around limestone entryways and windows has been repaired.
CONDITIONS on the inside had ranged from burned out to severely deteriorated to almost intact. Where original trim remained, lead paint was chemically removed where necessary, and attempts were made to replicate missing historic trim. In the public vestibules iron stairs and marble treads were retained along with the mosaic tile landings.
"It improved people's attitudes," Ms. Williams said.
To give some idea of how far the building has come, she recalled the time some 15 or 20 years ago when the building was without heat or hot water. So she and a few other mothers pooled their efforts, living in one apartment in an attempt to cope with the situation.
They would boil water for baths for the children and for cleaning and put boys to bed in one room, and girls in another, keeping them together for warmth.
Ms. Williams, who at 70 is president of the 140th Street Block Association, said the building was partly rehabilitated in the 80's, but not enough to turn the years of decline around.
BUT the most recent effort has won her approval. Her four-room apartment on the second floor has been reconfigured. Although the kitchen had been at the back of the apartment, the new one was constructed at the front, closer to a large living room area, which she also uses as a dining room. Two bedrooms are now at the rear of the apartment.
Walking through her kitchen she opened and closed cabinet doors.
"Cabinets galore," she said, smiling. "I do a lot of cooking at the holidays," she added, noting that she has nine grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
Ms. Williams, whose only income is her Social Security check and who pays $174 a month for her apartment, said the renovations had had the added benefit of improving attitudes among those who live in the neighborhood.
"With a new coat," she said, "You stand a little taller."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The reconstructed house at 455 East 140th Street in the Bronx, above, where Hattie Williams lives. Kitchen, right. Ms. Williams in the living room of her apartment. "You hear the saying, 'You can't fight City Hall," she says. "Then someone comes along and says, 'Yes you can.' Sure enough we got something done." (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (53%); C (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; APARTMENT HOUSES REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (88%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (88%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (86%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); 

PERSON: WHITAKER, BARBARA; WILLIAMS, HATTIE

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



614 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: High-End Mix on a Manmade Lake Near Las Vegas

BYLINE: By KEVIN BRASS 

DATELINE: HENDERSON, Nev.

 BODY:
WHEN Jeffrey and Marie Schepps started looking in 1995 for a new house, they soon became frustrated with what was available in the Las Vegas area. They wanted to move up from the 2,500-square-foot house for which they had paid $185,000 six years earlier.
"We looked at places that were $800,000 and they just weren't up to snuff," said Mr. Schepps. "They were just large tract homes." 
 The couple, who operate a marketing and travel business here, finally settled on a $1.2 million, 6,500-square-foot, Mediterranean-style mansion in Lake Las Vegas, a 2,245-acre residential, commercial and resort development under construction in this city, which is about 20 miles from the fabled Strip.
Designed around a new 320-acre manmade lake, Lake Las Vegas is targeting the upscale home buyer often overlooked in this area's recent housing boom.
The developer, Transcontinental Properties, based in Santa Barbara, Calif., seeks to lure wealthy clientele away from resort communities like Palm Springs, Calif., or Scottsdale, Ariz.
Plans call for four golf courses, six resort hotels, a commercial village and more than 3,000 houses. Lots designed for custom homes in the project's first phase start at $285,000 and go as high as $1.75 million for a half-acre lakefront lot.
"We're trying to attract people that have not been coming here for recreation or retirement," said Ronald Boeddeker, co-chairman of Transcontinental Properties.
The population of the Las Vegas Valley, which includes the cities of Las Vegas and Henderson and their surrounding areas, grew from 400,000 in 1986 to 1.12 million in 1997, prompting some analysts to call it the fastest growing area in the country. But the bulk of the new residents were retirees, gaming and service employees and construction industry workers looking for housing bargains.
Despite the city's glitzy image, the median price for a detached house in the Las Vegas Valley was only $132,000 in 1996, according to the Meyers Group, a real estate advisory firm. In the early 90's, fewer than 2 percent of the new houses sold in the Las Vegas area each year were priced over $250,000, the Meyers Group found.
"In Las Vegas, there really hasn't been a big market for luxury homes," said Erika Geiser, director of marketing for Christopher Homes, a Las Vegas builder specializing in building higher-priced houses.
Even though the population was growing, rising land prices and water fees, coupled with flat housing prices, prompted some home builders to bypass the area.
"You're dealing with cost-conscious buyers in Las Vegas," said Michael Pattinson, president of Barrett American, one of the largest residential home builders on the West Coast. "The margins aren't the type of margins that are attractive for us."
But in recent years there have been indications of changes taking place in the market. The number of new homes sold for more than $250,000 each year has more than doubled since 1994.
The increase can be attributed, in part, to a growing diversification of the Las Vegas economy. More businesses not associated with hotel and gaming have set up operations, including MicroAge, a communications company, and Reno Air.
Several companies, including Image Entertainment, a movie and music distributor, and F.A.O. Schwarz, the toy retailer, have built large distribution centers in Las Vegas, taking advantage of Nevada's liberal tax policies.
And the recent expansion of McCarran International Airport, where 26 more gates are scheduled to be added next year, has also helped to lure new businesses. Already direct flights to Las Vegas are available from most major cities.
ALTHOUGH several upscale developments have been built in recent years, Lake Las Vegas is a bellwether for luxury housing projects in the Las Vegas area, according to Tim Sullivan, senior managing director of the Meyers Group. "If Lake Las Vegas can do it, it proves there is a market," he said.
The original concept for Lake Las Vegas actually dates back 30 years, when J. Carlton Adair, an actor and businessman, began buying up property in the Lake Mead area. In 1966 he traded his land for more than 2,200 acres controlled by the Federal Government, including the pledge of 10,000 acre-feet of water from the Colorado River to create a lake.
Unable to raise funds, Mr. Adair went bankrupt in 1972. The group of investors that succeeded him was also unable to raise the capital to bring the lake to fruition.
Transcontinental Properties, which bought the property in 1990, has developed resort properties in California, New Mexico and Hawaii. It is owned by Transcontinental Corporation, which was formed by Mr. Boeddeker in 1976. According to a company release, it "conducts all of its business in partnerships and subsidiary corporations with entities owned by Sid and Lee Bass of Fort Worth."
Henry Gluck, who was named co-chairman of Transcontinental Properties in 1995, said he had looked at the property long before joining the company. "I always thought the next wave for Vegas would be someone who could provide a resort destination instead of just another Strip property," said Mr. Gluck, who served as chairman of Caesars World, which at the time owned Caesar's Palace, a luxury hotel on the Strip, before joining Transcontinental.
Although there will be casinos on the property, gambling is not a central theme. The centerpiece of the project is the two-mile long lake, which is 145 feet deep in some sections. Wells Fargo Bank provided initial financing of $60 million to build an 18-story earthen dam to help form the lake, which is stocked with trout and bass. In response to complaints from environmentalists, a two-mile pipe was installed under the lake to divert the natural run-off.
Henderson agreed to sell more than 2,000 acre feet of raw, untreated water a year from Lake Mead to help replenish the new lake and irrigate the surrounding area, a decision that also drew criticism. Officials from other areas and environmentalists said the water would be better used to serve other developments in the water-starved area.
Philip Speight, Henderson's city manager, said Lake Las Vegas pays more for the raw water than other developments here pay for reused water, although less than the rate for treated water.
"The City Council made a conscious decision to back this project rather than simply build homes in some other part of the city," Mr. Speight said.
FOR this city, the resort and commercial elements of Lake Las Vegas were essential, representing a chance to broaden the tax base. "I'm not sure you can put a dollar amount on the prestige value of the project," Mr. Speight said.
Most of the construction so far has been on the 550-acre south shore parcel, where a golf course designed by Jack Nicklaus is already open. The area includes 360 sites for custom homes, with the average lot of 20,000 square feet selling for $440,000. About 70 percent of the lots are already sold, with 60 houses under construction, said Sherri O'Boyle, a Lake Las Vegas spokeswoman. Nearly half of the buyers are local, she added.
Transcontinental is developing housing in joint ventures with several home builders, including AmStar Universal, Shannon Communities and Robert Jones Company, all based in Las Vegas. Forty-one detached houses ranging in size from 2,500 to 3,200 square feet are already under construction, priced from $550,000 to $750,000. The next phases will offer houses from $350,000 with lake views to $750,000 for a lakefront site.
Construction on the north shore will center on a 40-acre commercial plaza, which will include a 200-room hotel operated by Grand Bay Hotels, a subsidiary of Carnival Hotels and Casinos. It will also feature a 30,000-square-foot casino, 30,000 square feet of office space and 100,000 square feet of retail space.
Hyatt Hotels also plans to build a 500-room hotel on the north shore. Plans call for motorized gondolas to ferry people to the various buildings, designed in the style of an Italian village.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ronald Boeddeker, left, co-chairman of Transcontinental Properties. Lake Las Vegas housing now under construction. (Jim Laurie for The New York Times);
 
Map showing the location of Henderson, Nev.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (96%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (79%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRANSCONTINENTAL PROPERTIES INC

ORGANIZATION: TRANSCONTINENTAL PROPERTIES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA; UNITED STATES (96%); NEVADA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (96%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (79%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); RESORTS (90%); LAKES (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (70%); PRICE INCREASES (61%); 

PERSON: BRASS, KEVIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



615 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Selling Off Northrop Grumman's Surplus;
Cablevision Takes Last of the Grumman Buildings

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN 

DATELINE: BETHPAGE

 BODY:
THE acquisition of the 525,000-square-foot former Grumman headquarters at 1111 Stewart Avenue three weeks ago by the Cablevision Systems Corporation of Woodbury was the culmination of efforts begun by Northrop Grumman four years ago to sell off 2.6 million square feet of its surplus buildings in Bethpage.
The remaining structures are either sold, in contract, or have contracts pending. Only 39 of the 146 unoccupied acres, including a vanished airstrip, that the military/aerospace contractor also placed on the market are still available. 
 "When Northrop Grumman downsized severely almost four years ago, we were still in the throes of recession and a lot of people were fearful that we would wind up with millions of square feet of empty buildings in Bethpage for who knew how long," said Stephen G. Latham, the Commissioner of Nassau County's Department of Commerce and Industry. "The fact is it took about two years for interest to start to develop and now all we have left is about 30 acres of undeveloped land that isn't committed."
Cablevision paid $23.5 million for a package that included the Stewart Avenue building, an adjoining 18,000-square-foot structure that once housed a bank, and 35 acres of undeveloped land. The company, which is the nation's sixth largest cable operator with 2.9 million subscribers in 18 states, including 1.7 million subscribers in metropolitan New York, will relocate its headquarters here from Woodbury, probably by next summer.
In addition to its cable, programming, telecommunications and telephone service operations, Cablevision, which got its start in Hicksville 25 years ago, holds a majority interest in Madison Square Garden Limited Partnership and recently acquired a 25-year lease on Radio City Music Hall with their purchase of Radio City Productions.
The acquisition of the 1111 Stewart Avenue building was a sale-leaseback arrangement that company executives declined to discuss, other than to confirm that the building had been bought by U.S. Realty Advisors, a Manhattan real estate investment company, and that Cablevision had a long-term lease. Major upgrades will be done on the building.
Theodore J. Stratigos, senior director of Cushman & Wakefield of Long Island, which brokered the Cablevision deal, said that because of it the Long Island office vacancy rate immediately dropped by 2 percent. He noted that the direct vacancy rate, space available from landlords, was now 9.1 percent, against 12 percent a year ago.
Cushman & Wakefield's Melville office became the exclusive agent for the Northrop Grumman properties in December 1995. The Forchelli, Schwartz, Mineo & Carlino law firm of Mineola has been handling the seller's environmental, land-use, zoning and other legal matters in the transactions.
In all, Cushman & Wakefield marketed 16 buildings at the Bethpage site, everything from hangars to office buildings, Mr. Stratigos said. Now, with several new buildings under construction, "an area that once was one company has been brought to new life with the diversity of 15 to 20 companies," he said.
Industrial space sold for $35 to $40 a square foot; office space for $40 to $60 a square foot, and land for $225,000 to $300,000 an acre. Prices for the remaining property are $325,000 to $350,000 an acre.
Among other major buyers at the Bethpage complex is Briarcliffe College, a business and technical school, which bought a 225,000-square-foot office building on Stewart Avenue that was once Grumman's engineering headquarters. The two-year school, which has applied for four-year accreditation, moved in a year ago.
Another is Robert Plan, an insurance company that first leased a total of 247,000 square feet of space in two buildings, also on Stewart Avenue, in 1994, then bought them in 1996. Earlier this month, the company transferred its headquarters there from Uniondale, and will eventually have a total work force of 1,300 in Bethpage. Grumman had used the building been used for administrative offices.
A THIRD large transaction was the purchase of an 828,500-square-foot former manufacturing plant on South Oyster Bay Road a year ago by Steel Equities, a real estate development and management company formerly in College Point, Queens. The company occupies 2,500 square feet of offices in Bethpage and has divided the rest of the building for multiple tenants.
So far it has leased out 500,000 square feet, with Menlo Logistics, a division of Emery Worldwide Airlines, its largest tenant, taking 300,000 square feet for a mail-sorting operation. Steel Equities has signed contracts on two additional buildings totaling 110,000 square feet on an adjoining 25-acre site.
In addition, Northrop Grumman has sold over 100 acres of vacant land to entities that include Lily Popcorn, a Valley Stream popcorn manufacturer and distributor, which is building 110,000 square feet on South Oyster Bay Road that it expects to move into in February.
Extended Stay America, a publicly traded developer of hotels with kitchen-equipped suites, which is based in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., has signed a contract to buy 2.6 acres on South Oyster Bay Road. It plans to build a 104-room hotel if it gets the necessary approvals from the Town of Oyster Bay, which controls zoning in Bethpage.
Sunny Lane, a 300-unit co-op housing development for people 62 and older, has been built on 12.5 acres on Central Avenue. And the United Korean Presbyterian Church of Long Island, which is renting space in Huntington Station, has signed a contract to buy a 60,000-square-foot building behind Briarcliffe College, but still needs a special use permit to convert it into a church.
Grumman once occupied almost 6 million square feet in Bethpage, including 1.25 million square feet it leased on 105 acres of Navy-owned property. Northrop Grumman, the company formed in 1994 after Grumman was acquired for $2.1 billion by Northrop (which will merge with Lockheed Martin of Bethesda, Md., early next year in an $11.6 billion deal) will still have a considerable presence.
It will retain ownership of about 140 acres with 1.825 million square feet of space in buildings where it will continue its electronics systems and integration division, its military aircraft systems division and its data systems and services division. The operations together employ 3,000 people.
Elsewhere on Long Island the military contractor still has two locations. Its electronic sensors and systems division in Melville employs 200 people and a customer support office in Bohemia employs 100.
At its peak in the mid-80's, Grumman had 25,000 employees on Long Island, of whom more than 20,000 worked in Bethpage. Its notable achievements since its founding in 1929 included the design and manufacture of such aircraft as the Hellcat, which was widely used in World War II, the lunar module that helped place a man on the moon in 1969, and the F-14 Tomcat, the first swing-wing aircraft put into production.
VESTIGES of the 6,500-foot runway on which Grumman tested its planes, and which closed in 1990, are still visible, but a new road, Grumman Road, now parallels the path of the former airstrip. Along it, buildings are under construction.
A transfer of the 105-acre Navy properties, which Northrop Grumman has all but vacated, to Nassau County was recently authorized by Congress, and the county has hired a consulting firm to prepare a feasiblity study. Public hearings will also be held so that the community can have a voice in what will happen at the Navy site, said Mr. Latham, the Commissioner of Commerce and Industry.
The overall objective is to sell various parcels to get them into private hands and onto the tax rolls, he added.
Northrop Grumman signs are still highly visible here, but they will vanish after the Lockheed Martin acquisition. With them will disappear reminders of an important episode in Long Island's aviation and economic history.
But the Grumman name will continue to be displayed, for now, in at least one place.
Richard B. Turan, the president of Briarcliffe College, salvaged a Grumman sign that had been in his building and has it showcased in the school's library. The college is refurbishing 22,000 square feet on its second floor as incubator space for developing high-tech companies. It has also rented out all its surplus space, with Gaines Berland, a stock brokerage firm, occupying 90,000 square feet, and the overflowing Robert Plan next door taking 14,000 square feet.
"We took this building when a lot of people said this area would never go," Mr. Turan said with a smile. "We disagreed."

GRAPHIC: Map: "A Military Provider Dons Some Civilian Clothes"
Map shows where the former Grumman buildings were located in Bethpage, L.I.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CVC (NYSE) (94%); NOC (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (94%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (94%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (92%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (85%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (85%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (85%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORP; NORTHROP GRUMMAN CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORP (94%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (92%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (85%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (66%); COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (56%); RADIO CITY PRODUCTIONS INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORP; NORTHROP GRUMMAN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES REAL ESTATE (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (85%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); CABLE TELEVISION (65%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (61%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (50%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: SHAMAN, DIANA

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



616 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1702 words

HEADLINE: The Stars, the Planets, the Cosmic Counsel

BYLINE: By DIANE SIERPINA 

 BODY:
WHEN was the last time you checked your horoscope? Before you signed an important contract or started a new business? Before agreeing to a blind date? Perhaps not since you were a teen-ager? But with 1998 only days away and New Year's resolutions still to be made, the alignment of the planets may have a lot to tell you about the year ahead -- and consultation could be at your cyber fingertips.
Stars, the celestial kind, do a lot of talking, says Eugenie Diserio. And she should know. For more than two years now, nearly 600,000 households a month have been visiting Astronet (the astrology web site she created for America Online from her mother's basement in New Canaan) looking for cosmic counsel on love, pets, finance, beauty, career and, of all things, cooking. In this cyberworld, Ms. Diserio is known as Genie Easy and her daily horoscopes hold a lot of weight. 
 So what's in store for 1998? Genie is predicting we'll see relationships re-evaluated, increased humanitarianism and, uh-oh, economic belt-tightening, both personally and professionally. But more on that later. For now, the former singer/songwriter is glad that, two years ago, she had a sign from above to follow her passion and create a business in astrology.
"You can't lose," Ms. Diserio, 44, says of astrology and, in particular, Astronet, which has grown into a $1 million-plus business. "On one hand, it's entertainment. On the other hand, it's almost, like, a daily inspiration. A little prayer. And, if you get deeper into it, it can be really good guidance."
Astronet provides horoscopes -- lots and lots of them -- daily, weekly and monthly. And there are horoscopes by category -- teen-agers, pets, celebrities. You also can visit chat rooms, get a tarot reading, have your natal chart analyzed, find an astromate, read astrology magazines and do some cosmic shopping. About 30 expert astrology writers and readers and another 80 volunteer chat room hosts serve the growing number of visitors to Astronet on AOL (1.2 million visits a day) and a smaller Internet site at www.astronet.com on the World Wide Web (1.5 million visits a month), 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Why do so many online users visit Astronet? Ms. Diserio cites Roper polls indicating one-quarter of Americans admit they use astrology to help make decisions. On-line access gives them an immediate level of information, as well as feedback.
"Everybody wants to talk about themselves," explains Ms. Diserio. "Nobody can hear enough about themselves. And then, once you get off you, you become addicted to wanting to know more about your lover, your partner, your kids, your boss. It's human nature's fascination with each other. And, there's also this mystical thing -- everybody wants to know the future." But you never really get the future, the self-taught astrologer says. You must create your own using the advice you get. That's why most horoscopes are so generic, she says. They must get the reader to think about his or her own issues, reaffirm what is personally known and take action. "We all make choices in life," says Ms. Diserio. " When you see your chart, it's a road map for your life. It will show you hidden talents, opportunistic cycles and obstacles. Now you can choose to listen to this, work with it or you can just ignore it. But you'll often find that you're going to swim upstream."
Ms. Diserio and her chat host manager, Cris Kunicki, screen both the professional and volunteer chat hosts on Astronet. "We can assure people of the quality control," says Ms. Diserio. The best astrologers are over age 35, have years of experience and can charge up to $350 for an interpretive reading of a client's natal, or personality, chart that can last from one to two hours. Each astrologer interprets a chart in his or her own way. The cyber visitor choses an astrologer based on the biography available on Astronet.
"It's like anybody who's an important advisor to your life, you've got to shop around," says Ms. Diserio. "You've got to find somebody who speaks to you."
Ms. Diserio said she had an inkling as a graduate student at Columbia University 20 years ago that some day her life would come together in grand fashion.
An astrologer reading her chart at the time for a whopping $100 had predicted it. But he also had warned that the preceding years would be a struggle. "In a way," she recalled, "it was depressing."
Ms. Diserio was a struggling painter and a singer, songwriter and recording artist who traveled the world. After gigs, she would relax in the wee hours of the morning by reading horoscopes and doing charts by hand for others, sometimes earning a few dollars. She left the music business nearly 10 years ago and joined a startup marketing/licensing firm, learning the ins and outs of business.
In late 1994, she was laid off, finding solace exploring remote astrology sites on the Internet. Her entrepreneurial spirit -- and a $150,000 seed grant from AOL's Greenhouse program that nurtures new sites -- set her to work in her mother's basement.
Astronet was born Nov. 13, 1995, a Scorpio. It's chart hangs on the wall near her desk, next to those for herself and her son, Jake, 8. The planet configuration on Astronet's chart sent a message that, with a lot of hard work, the astrology service would be successful.
The company now operates out of offices on Elm Street in New Canaan, with a full-time staff of 12 and a new chief operating officer, Jim Turner. Ms. Diserio's office is filled with cactus plants ("I have a green thumb," she says) and an eclectic assortment of artwork made by herself and Jake.
On the mantel over the fireplace are Beanie Baby stuffed animals and a Genie Lamp from Disney World. The boss works late nights and on weekends, is host to monthly zodiac birthday parties on-line and pops in on chat rooms for teen-agers and adults.
"You wouldn't believe some of the letters I get," she says, clutching her chest to emphasize the despair.
Astronet's visitors are predominately female (74 percent), ages 18 to 54 (78 percent), single (60 percent), earn over $50,000 a year (64 percent) and have college degrees (64 percent). Twenty-five percent are students and 35 percent are in professional or managerial careers. The audience appeals to major sponsors, among them Avon and Godiva Chocolates.
Astronet is now ranked No. 2 of all original content providers on the world's busiest on-line service provider, behind Love@aol.com, the singles website.
"She's done a spectacular job," says Charlie Fink, chief creative officer for AOL's Greenhouse Networks.
Ms. Diserio has held up major changes to Astronet because the planet Mercury, which rules our rational/conscious mind, is in retrograde (going back on its orbit) until Dec. 29. Beginning in January, however, Astronet will take on a redesigned look and offer many new features, including a month-long predictathon during which professional astrologers will give their forecasts for the year on such issues as finance, sports, work and career, health, love, glamour and alternative life styles. Contests are planned with prizes including a trip to the Bahamas and a shopping spree at Avon.
Visitors to Astronet's new Readers Network also will be able to book private time with a professional astrologer who will interpret their natal chart (now created quickly with special software) for a fee and they can order charts, reports or cassettes. In the future, they may also be able to order perfumes for every sign of the zodiac.
Now back to predictions for 1998. Ms. Desirio says Venus went retrograde on Dec. 26 and stays that way until February. That means we will be reviewing our relationships, personal and otherwise.
"Venus blesses us with a new awareness of how to negotiate and rebalance our responsibilities to ourselves and others," she says. "Go after what you want; dream of achieving and help those around you to do the same. It's a reminder that we can never do it alone."
By early February, Neptune, the planet of idealism, joins Uranus, the reality planet, in Aquarius, an indicator that humanitarianism will drive the world and continue to do so for at least the next 12 years.
This spiritual awareness of service to others and care of the earth was signaled by the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, at the start of a solar eclipse/new moon in Virgo and the burial of Mother Theresa two weeks later at the lunar eclipse/full moon in Pisces, says Ms. Diserio.
"The universe sent us the message that compassionate service must become a part of our daily lives," she says.
The astrologer also predicts that more government corruption and dishonesty will be exposed and several leaders will fall from grace, offering public apologies. And that since Neptune also rules pollution, we will refocus our energies from landfills to the quality of our air.
By June, when Saturn enters Taurus, Ms. Desirio expects the economy to slow down so it can rebuild and restructure itself. That may apply to individuals, too.
"We may find ourselves downsizing, both personally and professionally, trimming the fat and getting back to a more manageable set of assets," she says. "On the individual scale, we will examine the balance in our lives between work and pleasure." Emphasis will be on the quality of the work environment and more income-producing work may be conducted from homes, she says.
"All in all, I believe 1998 will call upon us to restructure our lives and relationships so as to make room for personal freedom," she says."
Astrology will continue to grow in influence, says Ms. Diserio, attributing this to the upcoming millenium, a growth in insecurity and the appeal of everything New Age.
Although Jan. 1 is a natural time to re-evaluate your life, she says, the new moon each month, particulary in your birth month, is another chance for renewal.
Does Genie expect to make believers out of skeptics? Perhaps.
"You can come in as a cynic and a skeptic and everything," she says of the Astronet cyberworld, "but like with anything in life, you have to keep an open mind. Otherwise, you're cheating yourself. You're saying your instincts hold no weight."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eugenie Diserio, founder of Astronet, offers charts, horoscopes, and much more on the Internet. (Michael J. Doolittle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: ASTRONET (CO) AOL INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASTRONET (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: ASTROLOGY; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS HOROSCOPES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); CHAT ROOMS (76%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (74%); SONG WRITING (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); WRITERS (61%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: DISERIO, EUGENIE; SIERPINA, DIANE MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



617 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 8; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: Veterans at Work, Building New Lives

BYLINE: By ROBIN F. DeMATTIA 

 BODY:
TOM SMITH of New Britain was a door gunner in the Army from 1969 through 1971. When his helicopter's engine failed near the Cambodian border and he had to wait for it to be repaired, he said he had time to explore and chat with people.
Mr. Smith, having always collected rocks and geodes, was intrigued, he remembers, by a piece of orange calcite that an old man was holding. Though they didn't speak the same language, the old man recognized Mr. Smith's interest and gave him the rock. 
 "That little gift kind of kept my sanity," Mr. Smith recalls. "I carried it with me all around Vietnam, and I explained the geology of the area to the people I flew with. It kept my humanity in an inhumane situation."
More than 25 years later, rocks are still helping Mr. Smith cope with his Vietnam experience. A disabled veteran who suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder, Mr. Smith last year founded Rox & Clox Etc., a company that employs disabled veterans to create "gifts from our earth."
The products are assembled at the Veterans Administration Community Care Center in West Haven and the North Hampton Veterans Administration and sold throughout the state. Though the company is not yet making a profit, there are other, perhaps more important, benefits.
"A lot of veterans are psychologically still focused in the past," explains Dr. Laurie Harkness, director of the Community Care Center and former director of the Veterans Administration stress disorder clinic. "One of the two main ways we know to bring them home and help them have meaning in the present is having work activities and doing something productive or giving back to others. Work is our tool for therapy."
Making the products for Rox & Clox -- agate pen holders, clock and pen sets, pendulum clocks, night lights, window watchers, Christmas tree ornaments and key chains -- is not the only job at the Community Care Center. Dr. Harkness says the group has contracts with Target Drugs, Sears, CVS, and Craftsman, among others, to do packaging, assembly, labeling and switch work.
"We're the pedicure kings of the world," she laughs, alluding to the amount of personal grooming sets the veterans work with. After receiving care for their acute issues, the veterans enter the jobs program and are paid based on their productivity, motivation and skills, with most averaging around $200 a week.
At any given time 40 to 50 veterans statewide participate in the jobs workshop, usually staying in the program for three to six months before moving on to jobs at the Veterans Administration hospital -- in engineering services, housekeeping, pharmacy, fire and safety -- and then positions in the community.
"We place approximately 58 percent of the veterans, the second-highest in the country," Dr. Harkness states.
The jobs workshop program, which is three years old, did $500,000 worth of business in 1996, $740,000 in 1997 and will soon be a million-dollar business, according to Dr. Harkness.
The Rox & Clox endeavor that Mr. Smith started is just another example of how the veterans program is ongoing, Dr. Harkness notes. "Vietnam veterans are finally saying 'I want to make a difference. I've lived with my symptoms and substance abuse for 20 years and I want to change that.' "
Mr. Smith agrees with that analysis. Having been homeless twice during the 1990's and having battled an alcohol dependency, he says the work "keeps me busy and productive and not obsessing about being disabled and thinking the world's terrible."
And he wants to pass along that help. "My vision is to bring geology to people and to help my fellow veterans out," says Mr. Smith, who holds a master's degree in geology from West Virginia University.
He started by enlisting the support of Vince Putignano of Norwalk, a disabled Vietnam veteran who served in the Marine Corps. Mr. Putignano, who had congestive heart failure in 1991 and cancer he attributes to exposure to Agent Orange, at one time owned United States Business Products in Westchester County, employing 165 people.
After his heart attack, his business failed and he spent several years unemployed. Mr. Smith's venture proved just the activity to help rejuvenate his business interests.
"Because of my business experience, I recognize the need for self-discipline in life and I bring that to Rox & Clox," he explains. "There are things I don't like to do, but I do them and the other guys see that and it rubs off."
He adds that veterans helping other veterans is key: "One of the aspects of someone suffering from post-traumatic stress syndrome is that they have a real big authority problem. So if something is dictated to them, they're not as affable at accepting that premise. But if they see a fellow veteran do that, they may say 'I'd like to do that too.' If they see a vet with the same problems and nightmares being productive, it spurs them on to copy the activity and get involved themselves."
Dr. Harkness echoes that thought. "The work setting is like a big family, with the veterans helping each other. They think 'If I don't show up today, so-and-so will worry about me. So though I'd rather stay in bed today, I'll go to work.' "
Another key, for the Rox & Clox business, is that the veterans are making products that people want. The items are sold in the Connecticut Made store in Waterbury, were featured in several shopping malls this holiday season, and are beginning to appear in stores like Cape Cod Crafters in Orange.
Robin Hoffemberg, owner of the Conversation Pieces gift store in Wilton, recently starting selling geodes cut and polished by the group. "The geodes make nice bookends and are pretty to look at," she says, "but they're also good for people who have a social conscience and want to buy things that will help people. It's nice to help the veterans not only financially but in expressing their creative ways."
Mr. Smith and Mr. Putignano also arranged to be vendors at large companies, selling to employees during lunch and coffee breaks.
"We have a lot of vendors who mostly sell jewelry and we were looking for something different," says Debbie Fouche, manager of the Aetna Employee Store in Hartford. "We like the Rox & Clox story, the fact that Tom is a veteran and he hires other disabled veterans. We've had very positive reaction from our employees and many requests to have them back."
The Rox & Clox goals, besides getting out of the red financially, include officially establishing the venture as a nonprofit organization and then obtaining support from the Small Business Administration.
"It's been an out-of-pocket venture so far, so things have been a little tight," Mr. Putignano says. "But we have to show some kind of a track record before we can sit down with anybody and ask them to help us build what we want to do."
In the long term, Mr. Smith and Mr. Putignano envision working with disabled veterans groups in each state that would function under their auspices and sell similar products in their state stores.
"Everyone would have a job and be paid," Mr. Putignano enthuses. "They'd make themselves a couple of bucks and they'd build their self-esteem and self-image."
Dr. Harkness believes their goals are achievable. "Tom is very committed and he's got a great cause," he said. "If anybody's going to do it, he'll do it."
And as more and more disabled veterans take on such roles, Dr. Harkness hopes, "the old stigma of the Vietnam veteran as being this dysfunctional person is going to largely go by the wayside."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Aetna Employee Store in Hartford, Tom Smith, right, and Vince Pitignano, both Vietnam veterans, show a customer a selection of Rox & Clox products, made by themselves and other veterans. Rox & Clox highlights the beauty of natural rock forms in useful items. (Photographs by Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (92%); UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); EARTH (71%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: ROX & CLOX ETC

ORGANIZATION: ROX & CLOX ETC

GEOGRAPHIC: CAMBODIA (92%); UNITED STATES (73%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); EARTH (71%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: ROCK AND STONE; VETERANS; HANDICAPPED; LABOR VETERANS (92%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (90%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (73%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (72%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (71%); CHRISTMAS (70%); DISABLED PERSONS (68%); ENGINEERING (66%); 

PERSON: SMITH, TOM; DEMATTIA, ROBIN F MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



618 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes/The Jones Wood Gardens;
A Leafy East Side Enclave With Just 12 Keys

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY 

 BODY:
THERE are only 12 keys that will get you into the Jones Wood Gardens, which is why only a few New Yorkers know about the leafy backyard enclave established between Lexington and Third Avenues from 65th and 66th Streets in 1920.
Now the owners are concerned that an apartment project replacing several buildings at the northwest corner of 65th Street and Third Avenue, one of which contains the Sign of the Dove restaurant, will compromise this special place. 
 Post-Civil War construction brought brownstone development up the spine of the East Side, especially along the line of the horsedrawn rail cars on Third Avenue. The car depot occupied the entire east blockfront of Third Avenue, from 65th to 66th Streets. In 1868, Jacob Korn, a Warren Street cloth dealer, built up the west blockfront with 10 small four-story apartment houses, designed by John B. Snook. The buildings had one family to a floor and a store below.
Snook also designed 13 rowhouses on the side streets, 157-167 East 65th Street and 154-166 East 66th Street. There was nothing special about these three-story and basement brownstones and nobody of renown lived there. A typical early tenant was Moses Lauterbach, a cattle dealer, who had been living on Second Avenue and moved into 167 East 65th Street. All the buildings were rentals.
In 1919, The New York Times reflected in an article that "for years the private dwelling was considered a very poor asset from a real estate standpoint."
"The 10- and 12-story apartment house, with its up-to-date improvements and service, was responsible for this condition of affairs," The Times asserted.
But World War I brought more people into the city while creating shortages of the building materials and labor necessary for the new wave of apartments. So investors had begun to look with new eyes on existing housing stock, with specific results for the 65th and 66th Street houses.
The 1919 article reported that a syndicate headed by the architect Edward Shepard Hewitt had acquired 12 of the 13 houses and would remake them to face not the streets, but a "huge sunken garden" in the rear, measuring 100 by 108 feet. These houses had kitchens and dining rooms on ground floor, libraries and parlors on the second; and seven bedrooms and four baths on the upper two floors.
Hewitt, working with the architect William Emerson as his associate, removed the high stoops and shaved off most of the facade detail, which was becoming the preferred solution to economically modernizing old brownstones.
The Times said the garden foliage "will look best in winter" and a 1922 article in House Beautiful said that the plantings had been selected for "hardy growth and easy maintenance" while "giving to the city house some of the advantages of the country estate." Early photographs show mostly grass plots and evergreens with a network of flagstone paths.
No credit for a landscape architect appears in period articles; presumably Hewitt was familiar with the common-garden idea through his friend and sometime partner, William Lawrence Bottomley. Bottomley was already at work on the much better known Turtle Bay Gardens, running from 48th to 49th Street and Third to Second Avenues.
The early owners of the 65th and 66th Street houses were quiet professional people, like Gordon Knox Bell, an attorney at Mitchell, Taylor, Capron & Marsh, who bought 154 East 66th Street, and Franklin B. Lord, fourth generation in his family to practice law at Lord, Day & Lord, who bought 160 East 66th Street. Bell moved from an old town house at 72d Street and Park Avenue; Lord had been living in Cedarhurst, L.I. As with other such developments, the purchasers were all subject to an agreement governing their use of the common garden.
EARLY magazine and news articles refer to the Hewitt project only as the "65th and 66th Street Gardens" and the renewed garden agreement of 1950 is the earliest surviving document with the name Jones Wood Association. That name recalls Jones's Wood, a weekend and summer pleasure ground a few blocks to the northeast that was popular in the mid-19th century.
The Third Avenue carbarns lasted until the late 1940's, when they were demolished for the New York Life Insurance Company's huge, white brick Manhattan House, running to Second Avenue. In planning Manhattan House, New York Life had purchased key parcels surrounding its building as light protectors, including 1116 and 1118 Third Avenue.
These had the effect of protecting the east light to the Jones Wood Gardens, too, and, after the building boom of the 50's and 60's, the Jones Wood block emerged as one of the few low-rise blocks left on the East Side, with the St. Vincent Ferrer Church complex on the Lexington Avenue frontage.
But New York Life sold its buildings in 1989 and now The Related Companies, a development group, has control over several of the Third Avenue properties, including the Sign of the Dove restaurant. David Wine, president of the company's residential development division, said that an as-of-right, 31-story luxury condominium, with perhaps 100 apartments, is now planned.
"We are working with members of the community, notably people who own the gardens to the west, to make sure the siting of the tower is responsive both to their needs and our needs" said Mr. Wine.
He declined to specify which properties he controls, but Lawrence Hickey, president of the Jones Wood Association, said that it includes 1110-1118 Third Avenue and 166 East 66th Street, the only rowhouse not included in the Jones Wood Gardens.
He said that the Jones Wood Association fought some neighborhood development in the 80's, like the apartment house at 200 East 65th Street and a possible redevelopment of the armory at 66th Street and Lexington Avenue. But he is avoiding an adversary tone, or even discussing exactly how the homeowners plan to go ahead.
BUT there are several ways the matter might proceed. The association might extract what concessions it can from the builder, although they are probably going to be slight, even though the new tower will almost certainly trade on the view into the Jones Wood Gardens.
A more surprising scenario might be for the owners to sell their collective air rights to the builder. That could establish a chain for the St. Vincent Ferrer complex to transfer its air rights also; Mr. Hickey is president of the St. Vincent Ferrer Parish Council. Some residents have talked about last- minute landmark designation for the garden and the Third Avenue tenements, but that is a distant possibility, since the garden is private and was planned without formal reliance on the low-rise buildings on Third.
It is even conceivable that, from a design point of view, a new apartment tower might be good for Jones Wood Gardens, in the way that new buildings sometimes leaven the old. But the garden seems like one of the last civilized spots in New York: a quiet, intimate green well surrounded by low buildings on all sides, a place where it is hard to calculate any improvement.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Overview of Jones Wood Gardens from St. Vincent Ferrer School, left (Frances Roberts for The New York Times). Layout of the garden and rowhouses, top, and the garden looking north in 1921, above. (Avery Library)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: 2ND AVENUE DESIGN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESTAURANTS (71%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (71%); WORLD WAR I (70%); TRAINS (70%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (70%); 

PERSON: GRAY, CHRISTOPHER

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



619 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2829 words

HEADLINE: The Changing Face of Park Avenue

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
BANKING on Park Avenue? Naturally. Merging and acquiring? Of course. But shopping? Who would think of Park Avenue as a retail destination?
A growing number of customers, to judge from the crowds in the new four-level Syms clothing store at 400 Park Avenue, on the corner of 54th Street. "We have been very pleased with the performance of the store in its first year," said Marcy Syms, president and chief operating officer of Syms Corporation. 
 Three blocks south, patrons huddle with their cell phones while being fitted for made-to-measure suits in Saint Laurie Merchant Tailors at No. 350. After 84 years downtown, Saint Laurie has found Park Avenue to its liking. "My sales are up about 30 percent," said the chairman, Andrew Kozinn. (Granted, that is a difference of only three suits a day, but at prices ranging up to $1,095, it is no small achievement.)
"Look at the natural light coming in," he said. "Look at the dignity of the area, how pleasant it is, how convenient. So what if Park is not a retail strip the way other sections are? That's almost inconsequential."
Park Avenue is not in danger any time soon of being mistaken for a mall. But it is changing. Best known as a corporate canyon extending north from Grand Central Terminal, linking the blue-chip world to the blue-blooded one, Park Avenue is assuming a more public face. Ground-floor spaces that were once the undisputed province of understated financial institutions are increasingly tenanted by glitzy showrooms, upscale merchants, chain stores and even -- gasp! -- a restaurant.
At the depth of the recession, about 70 percent of the retail space on Park Avenue south of 51st Street was empty or available, said Robert L. Billingsley, executive vice president of Colliers ABR, agents for several of the towers. Today, there are few vacancies. "The mausoleums have all filled up," Mr. Billingsley said.
With good reason. Rents on Park Avenue might run around $100 to $150 a square foot, one half to two thirds the cost of comparable space on Madison Avenue, said Kate D. Coburn, director of retail services at Cushman & Wakefield. And pedestrian traffic is more than ample.
"There is a constant stream of people on Park Avenue that's been ignored for a while," Ms. Coburn said. "The north end has had retail. It's now moving south."
New Yorkers could sip the trend themselves beginning in 1996 when a Starbucks opened at 430 Park Avenue, near 55th Street. Across the avenue, the Staples office-product chain planted its bright-red corporate flag.
Two months ago, Borders Books and Music opened a four-level store in the Ritz Tower at 57th Street. And earlier this month, Audi opened a seven-car showroom at No. 250, at 47th Street, as the first of what it said will be a worldwide network of "showcase dealerships."
The year ahead promises more big changes:
* Direct entrances to the Metro-North train platforms at Grand Central Terminal are to be opened at Park Avenue and 48th Street, Madison Avenue and 47th Street and in the pedestrian walkways that run through the Helmsley Building, at 46th Street.
* A condominium apartment tower, the first new building along this stretch of Park Avenue in almost two decades, is to be built at the southeast corner of 60th Street by Zeckendorf Realty and a Whitehall Street Real Estate Fund managed by Goldman Sachs & Company.
* Xerox Corporation will open a 20,000-square-foot showroom on 47th Street at the base of the Bear Stearns Building, No. 245, where the lobby and plaza are also undergoing a $13 million renovation.
* Lever House will be looking for a new tenant after 600 Lever Brothers employees move to Connecticut. The Lever Brothers, Chesebrough-Pond and Helene Curtis units are being joined to form Unilever Home and Personal Care USA, with offices in Greenwich and Trumbull.
Some 100 employees of the parent company, Unilever, will stay on Park Avenue for the time being, but the future occupancy of the glass-walled landmark at No. 390, between 53d and 54th Streets, is in question.
(So, too, is the fate of the charming Christmas carousel that has been on display for 45 holiday seasons. "We're going to pack it away with every intention that it will be there for the 46th year," said John T. Gould Jr., a Unilever spokesman. But the tradition is threatened by the impending departure of Lever Brothers and the death earlier this year of Jack Lowery, who designed the carousel each year.)
WHILE Lever Brothers moves off the avenue, the Colgate-Palmolive Company is to stay in place at No. 300 into the next century, as its 41-year-old headquarters building gets a much-needed renovation. Already, new mahogany paneling can be seen in the lobby, between 49th and 50th Streets.
Colgate's lease, which was to have expired in 2000, has been extended to 2010, said Jennifer Marcus Barbara, a spokeswoman.
As part of that renewal agreement, the Uris estate, which owns the building, has undertaken an $18 million upgrade. The tower is getting "a whole new inside," said Joseph C. Peters, senior managing director of Cushman & Wakefield, the managing and rental agent for the building.
Besides the work in the lobby, the heating, ventilating and air-conditioning systems are being modernized, elevators are being speeded up and electrical power is being boosted. Roofs and sidewalks are also being repaired. The renovation is by Swanke Hayden Connell Architects, which also designed the reconstruction of 320 Park Avenue as the new headquarters of the Mutual of America Life Insurance Company.
Both 300 and 320 Park Avenue were originally designed by Emery Roth & Sons, as were a majority of the 23 office towers built after World War II between 46th and 60th Streets. Park Avenue was the vineyard where the shapes of Roth were stored, built in an extraordinarily coherent style, love it or hate it: the corporate glass box.
Because image was so important at these buildings, no retailers needed apply. That legacy will endure at the Zeckendorf tower, which is to rise 35 or 36 stories.
"To create a great residential building, retail is not appropriate," said Arthur W. Zeckendorf, a principal in Zeckendorf Realty. The developers would prefer to have a grand lobby and a sitting or dining room.
Clearly aiming for the top of the market, the Zeckendorf project will have only one apartment per floor, ranging from about 5,200 square feet (five bedrooms) to 3,000 square feet (four bedrooms) on the uppermost floors. Ceilings will be 10 feet high and living rooms will be 20 by 30 feet. Condominium units like these might sell between $1,000 and $2,000 a square foot.
THE new building will replace a 12-story structure at No. 515 that was built as an apartment house in 1912, to designs by Denby & Nute, and converted to office use in 1958. It once housed the World Zionist Organization but has been abandoned for years. Demolition is to begin soon.
Frank Williams & Associates, an architectural firm whose credits include the Four Seasons and Rihga Royal Hotels, is designing the Zeckendorf building. "We are going to try hard to draw heavily on prewar buildings," said William Lie Zeckendorf, a principal in Zeckendorf Realty. The facade will be clad in brick, cast stone or limestone.
The Zeckendorfs would not would not assign a development cost to the project, in part because plans are still being drawn up. They said the project did not need any zoning variances or special permits.
Their building will sit in a transitional zone between mid-Manhattan and the Upper East Side. It was just this mix that drew Borders Books and Music, based in Ann Arbor, Mich., to the Ritz Tower at No. 461.
"We're the most conveniently located book-music superstore for one of the finest, most educated populations in the world," said Robert F. DiRomualdo, chairman and chief executive of Borders. In addition, he said, office workers fill the place at lunchtime and tourists provide steady traffic.
While Borders has more than 185 stores nationwide, it tailors its inventory to some degree. Mr. DiRomualdo said the 42,600-square-foot Park Avenue store would feature literature, business, computers, arts and fine arts. "If we don't sell more furnishing magazines and home decor books there than in any other store in our company, I'd be surprised," he said.
Drawing on the same well-to-do clientele, Simply Caviar, a mail-order house based in Long Island City, Queens, will open a 60-seat restaurant and food store in February in No. 350, next door to Saint Laurie. A private dining room with room for 20 is to open later, said Irvin Crusoe, a partner in Simply Caviar with David Mills. The architects are Yui Bloch Design.
Both the dining room and store will specialize in caviar, smoked salmon, foie gras and lobster. "A lot of people in the area indulge in that sort of thing," Mr. Crusoe explained. "They want to have caviar and Scottish salmon for lunch. Now they can walk downstairs." At dinner, he said, the restaurant expects to attract guests from nearby hotels.
The hotel trade has proved to be a boon for Saint Laurie, said Mr. Kozinn, its chairman. "I'm getting tourists that I never got before," he said. "South Americans. Midwesterners. Staying at the Waldorf. Staying at the Palace. I guess they don't have stores where they come from."
Saint Laurie is a small (2,700-square-foot) but signficant addition to Park Avenue -- first, because it has pushed retail farther south and second, because it has been a downtown fixture since it was founded in 1913 as the Independent Trouser Company by Mr. Kozinn's grandfather, Samuel Kozinsky. Indeed, its office and factory remain at 895 Broadway, near 20th Street.
The new store was designed by Milton Glaser and features a giant yellow tape measure on the wall. Tabletops brim with bolts of heathery tweeds and silk-like "Super 100" wools, as well as cashmeres, cheviots, saxonies and flannels.
It is a far cry from a teller's cage.
"If you were an owner on Park Avenue, your choice upfront would probably always be a financial institution," said David A. Green, senior managing director in the retail division of the Insignia/Edward S. Gordon Company, agents for 350 Park Avenue.
"With the downsizing in the financial industry," he said, "there just haven't been enough players to fill the space on the ground floors of these buildings."
Mr. Billingsley, of Colliers ABR, does not count out financial institutions -- "Banking is not all going to be done in a match box," he said -- but neither does he deny the retail allure of the Park Avenue denizen.
"Wouldn't you love to have an Audi dealership and all those guys with their year-end bonuses strolling across the street?" he asked. Colliers is the rental agent at No. 250, where the corner space had been empty four or five years after the Banco di Sicilia relocated in the building. Mr. Billingsley said he had been approached by discount drugstores and "gourmet" delis but turned them away. Then came Audi.
"The fact that the banks were no longer moving into these locations made this an almost classic institutional use," said Leon Casper, senior director at Cushman & Wakefield, which represented Audi. At 47th Street, a showroom would be seen by exactly the right audience for a luxury automaker: commuters on their way to Westchester County and Connecticut.
AUDI, a unit of Volkswagen A.G., plans to build showrooms around the world to serve not only as retail dealerships but as high-profile display cases. The New York showroom is the first. "There was something natural about being on Park Avenue," said Kenneth J. Moriarty, marketing director of Audi of America, referring to the BMW Gallery and Mercedes-Benz showroom, designed by Frank Lloyd Wright.
The 6,450-square-foot Audi Park Avenue showroom, as it is called, opened Dec. 5. It was designed by Jon Greenberg & Associates and Grid/3 International.
Another showroom, for Xerox products, is to open across the avenue next June in a space once occupied by the Bank of New York. Within the showroom, but visible from the street, will be a curving wall with an illuminated version of the digital "X" trademark and corporate motto, "The Document Company." There will also be an array of video screens. The design is by Ideo Environments Group and Highland Associates.
At the same time, a renovation is proceeding on the lobby and plaza at No. 245, which is expected to lose its main tenant, Bear Stearns, when its lease expires in 2002.
"We're trying to make the building accessible and welcoming to people and to enliven that very important address," said Raul de Armas of Moed de Armas & Shannon, architects of the renovation.
Among other features, the brick-covered plaza will be repaved in granite and the entrance will get a new facade of sheer glass. A larger lobby is being created out of what had been a long corridor. The ceiling of the lobby will be clad in anegre, a honey-colored hardwood, and will seem to glow from within, as it will be brightly illuminated from below.
Besides its showroom at No. 245, Xerox is also taking 100,000 square feet of office space in the building, which is owned by World Financial Properties, successor to Olympia & York. Xerox is consolidating operations there from 135 East 57th Street, 201 East 42d Street and 40 Rector Street.
A critical factor in the choice of 245 Park Avenue was the fact that 69 percent of Xerox's Manhattan work force comes to work through Grand Central, either as suburban or subway commuters, said Joseph A. Catalano, vice president and general manager for New York City operations.
Not many months after they arrive at No. 245, Xerox workers who come into Grand Central on Metro-North -- as well as the 35,000 to 40,000 other commuters who work north of the terminal -- should find one leg of their daily journey easier and faster than they had ever imagined.
Commuters with uptown destinations will no longer have to walk south from their platforms into the terminal, then reverse course, head up the escalators and swarm through the lobby of the Met Life Building.
Instead, they will be able to pop up into the sidewalks above -- almost like cosmopolitan prairie dogs -- through four new northern entrances to the platforms.
The $87.7 million construction project, known as "North End Access," may be completed by November, said Donald N. Nelson, the president of Metro-North.
"We will be reaching way out with this network," Mr. Nelson said. "We have high hopes of increasing ridership significantly. We believe there are a lot of commuters who drive and park in the upper 50's and 60's rather than come into the terminal and walk or take the subway whom we can now nudge onto the trains."
An average of 10 minutes of travel time might be shaved off the trip, said Donna Evans, a spokeswoman for Metro-North, adding, "There's no train operation we could do that would save that much time."
When the project is complete, it will be possible to enter Grand Central from as far north as 48th Street, through a small glass-enclosed structure outside the Westvaco Building, at 299 Park Avenue. A construction fence now marks the spot.
A SECOND entrance will be built on the Madison Avenue side of the Chase Manhattan Bank headquarters, 270 Park Avenue, at 47th Street. This entrance, which is also currently marked by a fence, will have an elevator.
Two more entrances will be tucked into the sides of the "Helmsley Walks," running through the Helmsley Building, between 45th and 45th Streets.
The entrances will be linked to the platforms through a cross-hatched network of two north-south "spines" and two east-west "cross passageways."
The spines are platforms that were taken out of service along Tracks 22 and 31.
The 45th Street passageway has been created from a former baggage and mail tunnel that runs under the lower level tracks. It is about 400 feet long and is connected to 11 lower-level platforms. It is so far along in construction that terrazzo flooring and wall panels are already in place at the west end, under Track 117.
The 47th Street passageway is entirely new, shoehorned structurally below the upper-level tracks, with enough clearance to permit passage of trains on the lower level. "We're using all the available space -- down to the inch," said John R. Seaboldt, deputy director of facilities engineering. The passageway is about 700 feet long and is connected to 15 upper-level platforms.
Wherever a platform is connected to a passageway, there is an enclosure made of glass block, the first visible sign to railroad passengers of a project that is actually unfolding all around them.
For a project of such complexity, with so many far-reaching implications, North End Access has proceeded with an astonishingly low profile. "The only disruption for our customers has been a more frequent change of platform assignment," Mr. Nelson said. "It's been almost invisible from the street." That will soon change.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Audi showroom in 250 Park Avenue, at 47th Street, opened this month in a former banking space that had been empty for several years. Andrew Kozinn, chairman of Saint Laurie Merchant Tailors, at left, with Ben Fruchter, a salesman, in the new store at Park Avenue and 51st Street. Borders Books and Music has opened at 57th Street. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Lever Brothers will move to Connecticut from Lever House next year. (Brian K. Diggs/The New York Times); The plaza and lobby of the Bear Stearns Building, 245 Park Avenue, are under renovation. Xerox is to move into the building next year. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. 4)
 
Map showing the location of the tunnels to Metro-North train platforms: "The Northern Approach To Grand Central" -- Tunnels with entrances on 47th and 48th Streets will give passengers direct access to Metro-North train platforms. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SYMS (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (72%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (72%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (60%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (60%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (52%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (52%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SYMS CORP (72%); BORDERS GROUP INC (60%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; PARK AVENUE (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); MUSIC STORES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); RECESSION (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



620 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 12; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEWS;
Elevation of the Everyday, as Glorified by Pop

BYLINE: By BARRY SCHWABSKY

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK

 BODY:
EVERYONE knows that with Pop Art, everyday, mass-produced objects became subject matter for art. Think of Andy Warhol's paintings of Campbell's Soup cans, or Claes Oldenburg's monumental sculptures of clothespins and the like. But that aspect of Pop Art can be seen as just a logical extension of the traditional still life genre. What's often forgotten is the more radical gesture by which Pop artists turned art into something very much like an everyday, mass-produced object.
The story of that gesture is ably recounted in "The Great American Pop Art Store: Multiples of the 60's," at the Zimmerli Art Museum here. The exhibition was organized by the University Art Museum at California State University at Long Beach, whose director, Constance W. Glenn, was the curator. 
 It includes items like shopping bags and wallpaper (by both Warhol and the late Roy Lichtenstein), china tableware and paper plates (Lichtenstein again). Others could easily be classified as toys (Robert Watts's plastic "Egg Box With Eggs," 1964) or among those miscellaneous little mass-produced curiosities, neither functional nor esthetic in intention, that my grandmother used to call tchotchkes: Mr. Oldenburg's painted cast plaster "Fire Plug Souvenir -- Chicago August 1968," or Alan D'Arcangelo's "Side-View Mirror" (1966), with one of his signature open highway images screen-printed in.
Of course, many of the objects are more obviously representative of "that old thing, art" (to borrow the title of the French critic Roland Barthes's famous essay on Pop). Here are all kinds of prints -- silk screens, etchings, lithographs -- and editioned sculptures made through traditional casting processes, as well as books ranging from Jim Dine's lush artist's book "The Picture of Dorian Gray" (1968) to Ed Ruscha's cheaply offset photo books like "26 Gasoline Stations" (1963) and "Every Building on the Sunset Strip" (1966).
The reasons for the explosion of multiples in the 1960's were many, ranging from the politically idealistic to the economically mercenary, and the Pop artists were hardly the only ones on the bandwagon. But it was all made possible by a radical questioning of both the nature of the art object and of the role of the artist, and in Pop Art the multiple as a method was bonded to mass culture as a subject in an unusually close way.
For one thing, the market in original paintings and sculpture is still based on an aristocratic model of social and economic relations. Jasper Johns remarked that "artists are the elite of the servant class," and the accuracy of his observation would have been recognized by courtier-artists like Van Dyck or Velazquez in the 17th century. But its embrace of the multiple showed that Pop Art envisioned not only a broader audience for its work, but also a different, more impersonal relation with that audience, now conceived more as customers than as patrons. To attract them, art had to become its own packaging.
Perhaps Warhol's and Lichtenstein's shopping bags are the emblematic items in this show. They practically cry out to be filled with as many of the others as possible and taken home. In Pop Art, the manufactured object as such becomes the most glamorous, desirable thing imaginable. Even in Tom Wesselman's "Little Nude" (1966), it is the voluptuous sheen of spray-painted, vacuum-formed Plexiglas that lends its aura to those rosy lips and nipples, and not vice versa.
C ERTAINLY it is hard to pass through here without feeling the stirrings of the possessive urge -- an urge that can be all the more difficult to suppress when its objects are many and affordable, rather than rare and unattainable. Who wouldn't want to live with such witty, thought-provoking works as Lichtenstein's eye-dazzling relief "Seascape (II)," from 1965, or Mr. Oldenburg's "Miniature Soft Drum Set" (1969)? Not to mention the 1966 "Bacon, Lettuce and Tomato Sandwich" (colored wax encased in clear, bread-shaped plastic) by the underrated Watts, an artist who is more often identified with the Fluxus group but participated in many of the early Pop exhibitions. Such works are touching souvenirs of art.
A pile of Warhol's silk-screened "Brillo Boxes," from a group made in 1969, are the first and last thing we see at "The Great American Pop Art Store." Much ink has been spilled over the implications of the supposed indistiguishability of these objects from the manufacturer's originals. Seeing them once again serves as a reminder of how misleading that line of thought is. No one could possibly mistake the Warhol box for the real one, if only because the former is so obviously made of wood and not cardboard. Just as surely as any bronze statesman, something relatively ephemeral has been monumentalized by representation in a more durable material. Warhol eulogized consumer culture, yet he did so in a form that resists consumption, after all.
In Pop Art, consumer culture came to reflect upon itself self-consciously, and that self-consciousness was at once celebratory and uneasy -- uneasy because the very fact of self-consciousness contradicts thoughtless consumption even as its allure is acknowledged and appeased. Perhaps that's why so many of these objects seem seductive but hollow; in fact, they seem all the more seductive, fun and beautiful because of their obvious hollowness. "What's the difference between Warhol's 'Brillo Box' and the one in the store?" a friend once asked. The answer: 'Warhol's is the one that's empty."
 
THE GREAT AMERICAN POP ART STORE: MULTIPLES OF THE 60's
Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum
Rutgers University, George and Hamilton Streets, New Brunswick
Through Feb. 22. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 A.M. to 4:30 P.M.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 P.M.
(732) 932-7237

GRAPHIC: Photos: The 1960's return to New Brunswick: from left, "Campbell's Soup Can Shopping Bag" (1964), by Andy Warhol; "Book" (1968), by Lucas Samaras, and "Bleeding Heart With Ribbons and a Movie Star" (1968), by Jim Dine. On page 1: Warhol's "Cow" (1966). (Zimmerli Art Museum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available PAINTING (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (65%); GAS STATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: ANDY WARHOL (74%); ROY LICHTENSTEIN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



621 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 4; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1911 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON;
Help From the Casino Floor

BYLINE: By BILL KENT 

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY

 BODY:
IT'S not quite a question of who has been naughty or nice. Redenia Gilliam-Mosee doesn't see herself as a pin-striped Santa Claus, even if many people here do.
"I like to joke that even though she's paid by the casinos, She's done so much good in the city she might as well be working for me," Mayor James Whelan said. 
 Robert Ruffalo, president of the city's Historical Society, characterizes her as "a person who never stops giving."
"She has made herself absolutely essential to just about everything positive that's being done here," he said. "From a historical point of view, this city wouldn't have come half as far as it has without her."
The fact that Ms. Gilliam-Mosee, vice president for governmental relations and planning for the Hilton and Bally's Park Place casinos hotels, typically gives away $400,000 of her employer's money a year to more than 50 charitable organizations and non-profit community groups in the region is "just one part of larger responsibility," she said.
"I'm the way the community touches this company. I'm the way the employees of this company can see that their jobs are having a positive effect on the community. I'm the way that this company can get whatever needs to be done involving government as efficiently as possible.
"And I live here. So when somebody talks about the impact of gaming on the community, they're talking about my backyard. The gaming industry made a lot of promises to the community when gambling was approved in Atlantic City. I'm here to see that those promises are kept."
Such a statement sounds improbable in a city that has yet to become the vacation paradise New Jersey residents envisioned when they approved casino gambling in 1976. And yet, in her two decades as Bally's and Hilton's government and community liaison, Ms. Gilliam-Mosee has used her casinos' money and influence to keep that goal in sight.
In 1982, she persuaded Bally's to spend $5.8 million on what became the city's first low- and middle-income housing project financed by casinos, the Jacobs Family Terrace at Baltic and Kentucky Avenues. When local banks cited credit problems as an excuse not to lend money to low-income families who wanted to buy houses in Atlantic City, Ms. Gilliam-Mosee set up a program in which Bally guaranteed low-interest mortgages to them, as well as casino employees. She made Bally's Park Place the first casino to adopt a public school in the city, giving the Indiana Avenue elementary school everything from computer equipment to carpeting. In the last five years, she has distributed more than $300,000 from the Bally and Hilton casinos to restore the Pop Lloyd Baseball Stadium. She sits on the boards of six community and regional organizations and is a member of two dozen others. She is supervising a $2.8 million residential renovation at Atlantic and Boston Avenues sponsored by the Atlantic City Hilton.
Other casinos employ community and government liaisons who have made similar contributions of time and money. (Both Caesars and Harrah's have sponsored housing projects.) But Ms. Gilliam-Mosee's role "has put Bally in the lead," said City Council Vice President Lorenzo Langford.
"The other casinos could take a lesson from Bally and find qualified local people and employ them in such influential positions," said Mr. Langford, who has been a consistent critic of the casino industry's tendency to hire outside the city. "A lot of her zeal is that due to the fact that she's home-grown."
Wallace E. Barr, who heads both the Bally and Hilton casinos, said he had never opposed or even disagreed with Ms. Gilliam-Mosee's use of his casinos' money in the 17 years he had known her.
"She understands our corporate philosophies, and she always does the right thing," Mr. Barr said. "Her relationship throughout the industry and the city, and among city officials, has enabled us to move efficiently and effectively in our public dealings."
It is this last characteristic that has made Ms. Gilliam's role as a government liaison so crucial. Other casinos have endured long, expensive legal battles over plans and policies affecting Atlantic City politicians, residents and businesses. These have ranged from Mirage Resorts' two-year struggle to win approval for a $330 million commuter tunnel through a middle-class neighborhood to Trump Hotels' embarrassing failure to acquire Sabatini's Italian restaurant to make room for the Trump Plaza casino expansion.
In comparison, the Bally and Hilton casinos have had no visible opposition to several casino expansion plans, most recently the extension of a Michigan Avenue parking garage that required the demolition of St. Andrew's by-the-Sea Lutheran Church in September.
"Leaving a historic location was not an easy decision for the congregation to make," said the Rev. Neil Jaggie, St. Andrew's interim pastor. "But Bally's was a fine organization to negotiate with and do business with, and the sale and the arrangements went through to the congregation's satisfaction."
It helped that Ms. Gilliam-Mosee was friendly with Charles Fischer, president of St. Andrew's congregation. "Redenia is a great human being," he said. "Bally was fair and square, and it worked to out to everyone's advantage. The congregation can now relocate to an area with more room, and Bally can have its transportation center."
Ms. Gilliam-Mosee said her friendship with Mr. Fischer "was an asset" but added, "I didn't do anything differently with St. Andrew's than I've done with any other member of the community that is effected by our business."
She said she went to every member of the congregation concerned with Bally's plans. "I respect people on their turf," she said. "It's my No. 1 rule. Atlantic City has always been a small town, and you can't hide in a small town. At least, I can't. These are people who know where I live, and I'm not about to move."
Ms. Gilliam-Mosee's residency here makes her unusual among upper-management casino executives. Although her salary in the middle six figures would permit her to live in an affluent suburban enclave far from the city, she and her husband, Israel, live in the Maryland Avenue rowhouse in which she grew up. In addition to renovating that row house, the Mosees have bought and renovated five other row houses as rental properties on Maryland Avenue between Arctic and Atlantic Avenues. Mr. Mosee, former manager of the city's bus terminal, now looks after their properties. They have no children.
"My family moved here from Newark when I was 10, and I grew up working in the hotels, as a chambermaid and an elevator operator," Ms. Gilliam-Mosee said. "I had the assumption, like most people who grew up here, that I had to go somewhere else if I wanted to do anything significant with my life. I had completed the work for my doctorate in city planning at Rutgers when I was hired as a consultant by Bally. I was aware that people had been losing money in Atlantic City casinos long before they were legalized, and I had initially been opposed to legalized gaming. I said to myself I would have to take a long look at the business, to see if it could really meet its potential, before I would ever get involved."
In 1978, "there were a lot of expectations about the gaming that were founded on misunderstandings," she said. "People were under the assumption that the casinos were outsiders coming into the community, when in reality most of the employees were local or regional people, and still are. Many of them I had known since childhood, and they wanted to use the economic engine that the casinos were providing to improve their lives. Their enthusiasm rubbed off on me, though even my mother told me I was crazy to live in the city. I told her I just had to live here."
"Besides," she added. "For what it cost me, I got a lot of house and enough left over to fix it up. I decided to set myself up for the long haul."
As a casino executive in Atlantic City, "I was there for anybody who rang my door," she said. "I also had to be careful about politics."
Because state law forbids senior executives of casinos from contributing to political campaigns in any way, Ms. Gilliam-Mosee would not permit her brother-in-law, former City Councilman Harold Mosee, to ride with in her car. "I had to be careful about that, and all the affairs and luncheons and honorary dinners my job required me to attend," she said. "I had to learn to take small bites."
She said she had not expected Atlantic City to open the way for legalized gambling in other states outside Nevada. "But now that it has, it is important to me that people understand that, as a business, gaming can give people the potential to improve their lives and their community," she said. "I've looked at this from every side of the issue, and to me it's not what hasn't happened to Atlantic City so far, but what is happening and what will happen because I want it to happen, our company wants it to happen, and the community wants it to happen."
But don't think of her as Santa Claus.
"Our company supports many activities with material and services that I don't expect to be acknowledged," she said. "But when I commit our company's money, I want to see our casino's name on the program, or included on the list of donors. People know me well enough to know that I do not buy favors or publicity. I want people to know that what this company is doing in the community is worth doing."
 
RESUME
Redenia Gilliam-Mosee
 
EDUCATION Graduated from Atlantic City High School. Bachelor's degree, magna cum laude, in economics and political science from Wilberforce University. Master's degree in city and regional planning from Rutgers University. Has completed course work toward a doctorate in city planning from Rutgers.
 
CURRENT JOB Vice president for government relations and planning, Bally's Park Place and Atlantic City Hilton casino hotels. As community and government liaison, she supervises the distribution of $400,000 a year in casino money to more than 50 regional charities, community groups, ethnic and cultural festivals.
 
COMMUNITY PROJECTS Planned and supervised the construction of Atlantic City's first casino-financed middle- and low-income housing project, Jacobs Family Terrace. Helped establish a low-interest mortgage program for casino employees who want to buy houses in the city. Made Bally's Park Place the first casino to adopt a city public school. Gave more than $300,000 to restore Pop Lloyd Baseball Stadium. Supervising a $2.8 31-unit residential renovation at Atlantic and Boston Avenues.
 
CASINO PROJECTS Supervised all government and community affairs projects involving regarding Bally's and Hilton casino operations, including the recent demolition of St. Andrew's by-the-Sea Lutheran Church for an expansion of Bally's parking garage.
 
AFFILIATIONS Chairwoman of the Atlantic-Cape May Private Industry Council. President of the Atlantic City Boys and Girls Club. Vice president of the Greater Atlantic City Chamber of Commerce. Board member of the Atlantic City Arts Center, Atlantic City Historical Museum, Atlantic City Medical Center, Ladies Professional Golf Association Advisory Board and St. James A.M.E. Church. Attends as many as five community meetings, business luncheons, honorary dinners and other civic gatherings each day. "If I can't make a meeting," she says, "I make it my business to find out what happens."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Redenia Gilliam-Mosee, center, with Evelyn Benton of the Community Food Bank of New Jersey, left, and Betty Redmon of the First Assembly of God's food bank, two beneficiaries of the $400,000 a year in contributions that Ms. Gilliam-Mosee administers. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HLT (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (70%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HILTON HOTELS CORP; BALLY ENTERTAINMENT CORP BALLY'S PARK PLACE INC (70%); COMMUNITY FOOD BANK OF NEW JERSEY (59%); COMMUNITY FOOD BANK OF NEW JERSEY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HILTON HOTELS CORP; BALLY ENTERTAINMENT CORP COMMUNITY FOOD BANK OF NEW JERSEY (59%); COMMUNITY FOOD BANK OF NEW JERSEY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; PHILANTHROPY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CASINOS (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); GAMING (89%); POOR POPULATION (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PHILANTHROPY (75%); HOTEL CHAINS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); HISTORY (70%); FAMILY (70%); APPROVALS (63%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (61%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: KENT, BILL MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



622 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 14; Page 3; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: MAKING IT WORK;
Cover to Cover

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS 

 BODY:
For the first time in years, Tito Mahones can imagine a future. Over the last few months, the 40-year-old handyman who was profiled in "Tito Mahones: A Life on the Edge" (Aug. 13), has had a flood of work renovating the apartments of New Yorkers who are benefiting from the city's economic boom. He recently bought a used car for $100 and he occasionally hires friends to help him on jobs. His self-esteem, he said, is on the rise.
"I think I'm on a good track," he said, "but things aren't perfect." He still has no heat in his Bedford-Stuyvesant apartment. But with a steady income, Tito has been able to provide more support for his six children and he has begun patching things up with his ex-wife, the mother of his youngest child. There is even talk of getting back together. 
 "I think I've grown up more in the past six months than I have in six years," he said. ANDREW JACOBS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-SEVEN; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION TRENDS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW; MAHONES, TITO ANDREW JACOBS JR (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



623 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1509 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT;
Not Ready for Medicare, and Uninsured

BYLINE: By JULIA LAWLOR 

 BODY:
WITH nothing to protect her but a vial of heart medicine, Ruth Kain spent the last year and a half willing herself to stay well. Then, a week before Thanksgiving, she felt a crushing pain in her chest, jaw and left arm so severe that it took her breath away. She was taken to the hospital, where doctors discovered a major blockage in an artery.
Mrs. Kain, 64, of Ava, Mo., is one of millions of Americans aged 55 to 64 who find it difficult -- or impossible -- to obtain health insurance. While her pain has gone away, for now at least, her worries have not. Since her husband's retirement and the expiration of his employer-sponsored health insurance in 1995, Mrs. Kain has been unable to find coverage for her heart condition. 
 She estimates that her hospital stay last month will cost her $20,000, in addition to an $8,000 bill from last January when she had a pacemaker placed in her chest. Until she turns 65 next September and becomes eligible for Medicare, every penny must be paid out of her pocket.
"I have 10 more months of sitting on pins and needles, waiting and praying that nothing else happens to my heart," she said. "If it does, we'll have to mortgage our house. I have to stay healthy. That's all there is to it."
After focusing its efforts on getting coverage for millions of uninsured children, the White House is now turning its attention to the group of people typified by Mrs. Kain. Too young for Medicare, yet old enough to be forced into early retirement or pushed out the door in corporate downsizings, three million Americans between 55 and 65 now have no health insurance coverage, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute in Washington.
And this is the fastest-growing age group of the American population, now at 21.5 million but expected to increase to 30 million by 2005 as baby boomers approach retirement age, the institute said. Recent research has shown that people in this group are losing health benefits at a faster rate than any other group, except children.
In some cases, this is because pre-existing health conditions disqualify them from some insurance plans. In others, insurance companies view them as high risks and charge more than they can afford. In still other instances, early retirees lose coverage when their former employers cancel retiree health benefits to cut costs.
In any case, the loss of coverage can mean disaster for people like Mrs. Kain. The cruel fact is that "people tend to get sicker when they get older," noted Richard Coorsh, a spokesman for the Health Insurance Association of America, which represents 250 of the nation's for-profit health insurance carriers.
According to Paul Fronstin, an economist at the Employee Benefit Research Institute, a majority of people in the 55-to-64 age group are working; it is those who have retired who are more likely to lack insurance.
And women have a greater chance than men of being uninsured, Mr. Fronstin said. In part, that is because they are more apt to have jobs that do not offer health insurance. Others have been carried on their husbands' policies, so after their husbands die, they are often left without coverage.
Mrs. Kain was a homemaker raising four children and working only occasional odd jobs during the 37 years that her husband, Rufus, was a maintenance worker for Louisiana Pacific. After she had heart bypass surgery at 39, she remained in relatively good health.
But the surgery came back to haunt her when she went shopping for health insurance after her husband's retirement. No company would insure her for anything related to her heart or circulatory system. So Mrs. Kain ended up buying a policy for $227 a month that excluded her pre-existing conditions. The Kains own their own home and have Mr. Kain's pension, so they are not eligible for Medicaid, the health program for the poor and disabled. Mr. Kain, however, is covered under Medicare.
In 1996, 13.9 percent of people aged 55 to 64 were uninsured, compared with 32.8 percent of 21- to 24-year-olds and 22.5 percent of 25- to 34-year-olds, according to the Employee Benefits Research Institute.
Some public policy experts argue that the numbers indicate that the health insurance woes of the near elderly are getting more attention than they deserve. David Helms, president of the Alpha Center, a nonprofit health policy center in Washington, said: "To me the most deserving group is low-income workers of all ages who aren't getting coverage through their employer. Many 55- to 64-year-olds are not low-income. We should be focusing where the need is greatest."
Others, however, say the near elderly end up suffering the most. Ronald F. Pollack, executive director of Families USA, a health care advocacy group, said, "This is the group that winds up having the most harmful consequences when they are uninsured."
Many older people have chronic health problems like diabetes, high blood pressure and cancer that are costly to treat. "When you're an uninsured adult, there is a very high likelihood that you will defer the care you need," Mr. Pollack said. "Sometimes, once you go to get help, it's too late."
THE problem could grow worse. While people are tending to retire at younger and younger ages -- today, the average retirement age is 62, and even lower at large companies -- a bipartisan Medicare commission is considering the option of phasing in an increase in the eligibility age for Medicare, to 67 from 65. Such a move would put even more people at risk of going uninsured, said John Rother, legislative director for the American Association of Retired Persons.
Once they are pressed into retirement or are laid off, many older workers have difficulty finding other jobs that offer health insurance coverage. Those who become self-employed can try to buy coverage on their own. Others take what they can get.
Barbara A. Pretti, 62, of Memphis, says she thinks some employers rejected her because of her age when she went job-hunting in 1993. She had lost her position as a buyer and assistant product manager at Holiday Inn Worldwide when the company moved to Atlanta. Under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1986, or Cobra, she was able to continue her company health insurance plan for 18 months. But the Cobra coverage was expensive; Ms. Pretti paid $400 a month for the same coverage that cost her $96 a month as an employee.
Eventually, she found a new job in sales with a small company that offered no health insurance benefits. So when the Cobra period ran out, she went shopping again for insurance.
"It was a monster," Ms. Pretti recalled. Insurance companies turned her down because of surgery she had had on a broken ankle. Finally, she found a company that would insure her for $439 a month, with a $1,000 deductible. But money is so tight for her now that she tries not to use the coverage; she hasn't had a proper physical since 1991 because her policy has a $1,000 deductible.
Instead, her medical care now consists of visiting her cousin, a doctor, twice a year when he has a family party. "He stands at the door and takes everyone's blood pressure," Ms. Pretti said. Meanwhile, she has wiped out her savings paying $10,000 of dental bills for which she has no insurance.
"Right now I see no chance for retirement," said Ms. Pretti, who is divorced and lives alone. "Between the I.R.S. and the insurance companies, that's why I work."
INDEED, once Cobra coverage runs out, there are few good alternatives for people in the near-retirement age group.
The self-employed can obtain lower group rates by joining an association like the local Chamber of Commerce. In 13 states, including New York and New Jersey, "guarantee issue" laws require insurance companies that do business in the state to offer a policy to anyone, regardless of age or pre-existing conditions. But those policies can be expensive. Some states have created high-risk pools that let people who are disqualified by most insurers get policies. But this coverage, too, is often costly.
As health care costs skyrocketed in the early 90's, many employers reconsidered their health coverage for retired workers. A decade ago, 60 percent of large employers offered such coverage, according to Mr. Rother of the A.A.R.P. That has dropped to 40 percent today, he said.
James Huth, 55, said he was pushed into early retirement last year by the Pabst Brewing Company in Milwaukee, where he had worked for 32 years. Soon after, he said, he learned that his retiree health benefits had been eliminated. With a monthly pension of just $1,045, Mr. Huth, who suffers from a heart condition and diabetes, could not afford coverage on his own; the bill would have been $1,200 a month. So he became uninsured.
Then, last September, Mr. Huth had a stroke that landed him in the hospital. He is now trying to pay the $10,000 hospital bill. "I send them what I can," he said. "I have a choice. Do I want to eat and have a place to sleep, or pay for health insurance and sleep on the street?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ruth Kain, 64, has not been able to get insurance because of a heart condition. (Christina Dicken for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR AZOV SEA FISHERY PROBLEMS (53%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (53%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (53%); MEDICARE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICARE; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); EARLY RETIREMENT (88%); HEART DISEASE (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (75%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (75%); RETIREMENT AGE (74%); BABY BOOMERS (74%); THANKSGIVING (72%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); 

PERSON: LAWLOR, JULIA

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



624 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: The Dollar Standard;
Spinning Gold Into Dross

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
EVER since early civilizations began shaping it into tools and ornaments, gold has influenced human behavior like few other substances.
It has been at the root of wars, and of appalling acts of greed, and a symbol of kings and gods. 
 Gold long ago became the one material the world could agree upon as a measure and store of value. For much of the last two centuries it stood as a physical proxy for the financial strength of economies.
Gold can still make hearts flutter, and the recent revelations of how the Swiss handled the gold stolen by the Nazis from Holocaust victims are a dark reminder of the metal's powerful allure. But whatever its other enduring qualities, its economic role is in decline.
The gold standard, under which currency values were assigned in terms of gold, has long since fallen victim to an increasingly complex global economy. And now gold's role as a reserve -- the store of wealth that nominally backs an economy's soundness -- is slowly giving way to a belief among the central banks that are its biggest owners that holding vaults full of gold bars may be an anachronism.
In recent years, central banks in the Netherlands, Belgium, Canada and Australia have sold sizable portions of their reserves. Switzerland is considering selling some of its holdings. Eddie George, the governor of the Bank of England, predicted a few weeks ago that the new European Central Bank would choose not to hold substantial reserves at all when it begins operation in a few years. And although the United States does not have any plans to reduce its gold stores, the world's largest, economists within the Federal Reserve are tentatively exploring the case for selling.
"The question is what central banks and governments are going to do," said Ralph C. Bryant, a former Federal Reserve official who is now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. "Will the world eventually come back to gold as a reserve asset? Right now the probability looks fairly low."
The sales by central banks -- amounting to less than 6 percent of total government gold holdings from 1989 through 1996 -- have been a contributor to a sharp slide in the price of gold. From an all-time high of $850 an ounce in 1980, when inflation was raging and paper currency was losing its value, gold slid quickly to below $400 an ounce by 1982 and has more or less remained there. Last month it dipped below $300 for the first time in 12 years, and analysts see no compelling case for a substantial rebound anytime soon.
There are still fans of gold who believe it is the best hedge against inflation or some catastrophic upheaval that would leave paper money diminished or valueless. Indeed, supply-side economists say the decline of gold's role has been vastly exaggerated and that the world still operates in some ways on a gold standard, with gold serving an informal but critical role as a gauge with which to measure the underlying soundness of currencies.
"People still use gold as a way of assessing the promises of governments in dealing with their debt," said Jude Wanniski, a supply-side economist who is one of the most outspoken defenders of gold.
 
Alternatives
 But most analysts and economists believe that gold's importance has been permanently diminished. Investors looking for a hedge against inflation, they say, can find all kinds of alternatives.
The owners of capital now judge the strength of currencies based on the soundness of the monetary and fiscal policies in the countries that issue them. Money, the experts say, flows readily into currencies that are judged sound by the market, and flows even more rapidly out of currencies seen to be undermined by weak policies.
In the United States, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, has gone a long way toward eliminating the threat of inflation. And since inflation was what drove many investors to hold gold rather than risk seeing the value of their paper currency deteriorate, gold has become correspondingly less attractive.
At the same time, the relatively strong growth rates enjoyed by the American economy as well as improvements on other fronts like the Federal budget deficit have made the United States the most economically sound of the world's rich nations. The result has been to solidify the dollar's worldwide appeal as a safe investment haven on a level quite unconnected to the nation's gold reserves. When turmoil hit the Asian financial markets, panicky investors funneled their money not into gold, once the investment of choice during times of crisis, but into American Treasury bonds.
"The ultimate value of a currency is not what is backing it in the vaults, but the management of the economy of that country, or of the world's perception of how well or badly managed it is," said Ted Arnold, who follows gold and other metals for Merrill Lynch in London.
 
Capital on the Move
"That is a very potent force in a world in which capital is free to move elsewhere," he said. "So long as Mr. Greenspan is seen to be doing a great job, it doesn't matter whether Fort Knox is bulging or doesn't have anything in it."
One effect of the dollar's stability and appeal is that it is gradually replacing gold as the reserve of choice for central banks. One reason is that holding dollars is more profitable than holding gold; United States Treasury bonds yield around 6 percent, while gold is expensive to guard and yields nothing (although central banks are increasingly trying to generate some profits by lending it out).
For private investors as well as governments, gold has been an abysmal investment. Total returns on the stocks that make up the Standard & Poor's 500 were 146 percent over the last five years and 266 percent over the last decade, according to Merrill Lynch, using figures through the end of August. High grade corporate bonds yielded 50 percent over five years and 175 percent over 10 years. Gold, by contrast, fell 4 percent over five years and 28 percent over 10 years.
Still, some influential people continue to see an important role for gold. Among them, paradoxically, may be Mr. Greenspan. A long-time advocate of the gold standard, he has spoken publicly in the last few years of the beneficial discipline that would come from linking the dollar's value to gold.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Worth less: gold bullion in the vault at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. (United Press International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BELGIUM (55%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); BANK OF ENGLAND (54%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BELGIUM (55%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TRENDS (74%); HOLOCAUST (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



625 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 1; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1612 words

HEADLINE: Slouching Toward 1998, Contentedly

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES 

 BODY:
AS Homo americanus approaches the millennium, he is beginning to adopt a recognizable posture. It's a low, simian slouch, the relaxed loping walk of a creature at ease with his loathsome self and content with the world, which, for all its ills, did manage to keep the stock market humming along in 1997.
The beast enjoyed a prosperous year. The stress level was manageable. Inflation remained quiescent, crime was on the decline, and the news was only averagely horrible. Well into its fin-de-siecle mode, the national culture generated myriad, irreconcilable signals, which, rather than creating chaos or alarm, simply canceled one another out and fused into a seamless post-modern nonstick coating. Everything was sort of O.K., except for "MMMBop." 
 With feminists looking the other way, men slipped back into their well-worn groove. They behaved like brutes.
Robert Downey Jr. earned jail time for feasting on alcohol and cocaine. Christian Slater earned jail time for, among other things, feasting on alcohol and cocaine, beating up his girlfriend and biting an acquaintance. Mike Tyson earned $27 million for biting an acquaintance. Marv Albert, the sportscaster, pleaded guilty but did not receive jail time for biting a very close acquaintance.
Men did seem to need a little fine-tuning on the sensitivity front. Earl Spencer looked like Galahad as he savaged the tabloid press for tormenting his sister, Princess Diana. The light of heroism burned for about as long as it takes a paparazzi's flashbulb to pop. It turned out that Earl Spencer was less than a model of gallantry when it came to his wife, but even he could not compete in the cad category with Tasos Michael, who not only left his fiancee at the altar, but also took off for Tahiti to enjoy the holiday intended for them both. Frank Gifford -- well, enough about Frank, and besides, he now wakes up to a sizzling-mad Kathie Lee for the rest of his natural life.
It makes perfect sense that one of the most highly regarded films of the year was "In the Company of Men," a charmer about two angry white-collar workers who express their hatred of women by seducing and then rejecting a deaf woman. The pop group Prodigy should have been hired for the soundtrack. Their contribution to the year in music was a gossamer meditation on the male experience called "Smack My Bitch Up." The song was No. 1 with a bullet for the director Quentin Tarantino, who got in touch with his feelings by, in his words, "bitch-slapping" Don Murphy, a film producer whose partner had made sniping remarks about Mr. Tarantino in a book.
For the record, Jack Nicholson's name was not connected to any of the above events.
The bad behavior seemed all the worse for being unaccompanied by shame. In America, 1997 was the year that the nonapology apology reached the status of an art form. Latrell Sprewell, a guard for the Golden State Warriors, choked his coach in a fit of anger, then discovered the kind of remorse that defendants usually do when sentencing looms. In a grudging performance, he expressed regret to basketball fans but pointedly avoided mentioning the name of P. J. Carlesimo, his coach. He implied that the attack was provoked and complained, "I've been looked on as a negative person."
Alex Kelly, convicted of raping a 16-year-old he had driven home from a party, reached deep into his heart and pulled out the following choice specimen for the judge: "I'm sorry that her perception differed from my perception." Top honors for in the non apology category go to Pol Pot, who, reflecting on the carnage he brought to Cambodia, could not quite manage to say, "Gee, I'm really sorry." "Am I a savage person?" he mused. The answer, clearly, was no. "My conscience is clear," Pol Pot said.
Whatever. A drowsy, self-absorbed apathy, interrupted by the occasional outburst of road rage, wrapped 1997 in a humid fog. In New York City, Ruth Messinger worked herself into a cappuccino-like froth of indignation as she tried to stir a somnolent electorate. Well into the mayoral campaign, nearly half of the eligible voters said that they had no particular opinion about her and many did not seem to have the faintest idea who she was. The post-ideological age found its natural home in New Jersey, where the gubernatorial election hinged on the issue of car-insurance rates.
On the national scene, the never-ending investigations, allegations and rumors swirling around the Democrats seemed like very bad daytime television. As political pundits tied themselves in knots over Whitewater, funny-money campaign financing, Paula Jones, this-Gate and that-Gate, the American people snoozed, sent to sleep by political static that has become, in a way, rather comforting, like the sound of traffic, or waves crashing on a beach.
It is symptomatic that the year was sandwiched by two civil trials, that both of them were re-runs and that neither stirred deep emotions. In Santa Monica, Calif., O. J. Simpson was found to have wrongfully caused the death of Ronald Goldman and Nicole Brown Simpson. The national reaction was a shrug.
In Poughkeepsie, N.Y., the once-inflammatory Tawana Brawley case resurfaced, as Stephen Pagones, a former assistant district attorney for Dutchess County, sued Ms. Brawley's advisers, the Rev. Al Sharpton, C. Vernon Mason and Alton Maddox, for accusing him of raping Ms. Brawley. A decade ago, the case brought racial tensions to the snapping point. This time, it was heard as a feeble echo.
Both the Simpson and Brawley cases seemed like those reunion specials in which the cast members of a once-popular television series gather, hoping to rekindle the old magic and goose the ratings for one night. They lost badly to the nanny trial, a weird exercise in interactive justice. A guilty verdict was delivered, the television audience didn't like it, and the judge changed it.
The economy also seemed like a rerun. It was 1987 without the hubris, a sequel to the original hit, and like a sequel, it seemed muffled and muted. Donald J. Trump was still there, but even he seemed quieter, as though aware that he is not, really, Donald Trump anymore, not in the 1987 sense. As James Poniewozik pointed out, reviewing Mr. Trump's book "The Art of the Comeback" in Salon: "The Donald Trump of 1987 was American power embodied. Today he's what? A rich landlord." Maybe, like the rest of America, Mr. Trump is tired. He wants a rest. He doesn't want to be bothered. Summing up his philosophy on women, he wrote: "There is high maintenance. There is low maintenance. I want no maintenance."
The year did have its moments of passion. The world witnessed mass outpourings of grief for Princess Diana, a distant figure, always seen in soft focus, whose trials and tribulations made her a kind of patron saint for the therapy age. Here, on unashamed display, were the emotions that current politics have not touched, unless you happen to live in New Jersey and just got your car-insurance bill. The Princess's death relegated the murder of Gianni Versace to a second-tier event and left the death of Mother Teresa a distant third in news coverage.
It took celebrity murder to pierce the national armor of indifference this year. The shocker memoir certainly didn't do the job. In "The Kiss," Kathryn Harrison recounted a long incestuous relationship with her father. The only reaction from the critics was annoyance. In the collection "Close to the Bone: Memoirs of Hurt, Rage and Desire," a writer called Terminator told of seducing his mother's boyfriend. The critics found the story nearly as irritating as the title of the book. There's only so much shock to go around, as Harmony Korine discovered with his film "Gummo," which could have been titled "Kids2 ." Snarling adolescents with funny clothes, funny faces and cryptic nicknames are so '96.
Clearly, artists are trying to work out a respectable strategy for the end of the millennium. Role models help, so it is hardly surprising that Oscar Wilde, Mr. Fin-de-Siecle himself, emerged as the man of the year. Wilde returned in triumph Off Broadway in "Gross Indecency: The Three Trials of Oscar Wilde," and in London in Tom Stoppard's "Invention of Love." Stephen Fry scored a bull's-eye in the title role in the film "Wilde," and Liam Neeson is preparing to take a crack at the man in David Hare's "Judas Kiss."
Wilde was the dream date for the millennial prom, a transgressive, slyly deconstructive, proto-Warholian master of media imagery, the first impresario of self-created celebrity, whose finest work, the fictional character known as Oscar Wilde, baffled the public by posing as a poseur. What could be more perfect for the late 90's?
The waning years of a century lend themselves to elegant doodling in the margins, as Wilde knew. In fashion, the stern rule of minimalism gave way last year to baroque detailing, ornamentation and florid romanticism in collections by the English designers Stella McCartney and John Galliano and the Americans Marc Jacobs and Calvin Klein, among others. Mr. Galliano predicted a new Belle Epoque. Liz Tilberis, the editor of Harper's Bazaar, decided that the world was tired of seeing scrawny models who looked like they had the flu. She uncorked a new motto for her photographers: S.E.S., or "Sex, Elegance and Smiling."
All in all, 1997 was a little lame, a tepid brew, a dull pudding, a year to be sorry for, if anyone knew how to apologize anymore. At the bar of history, 1997 can say only one thing: "I regret very much that this had to happen, and that certain people felt let down, but in a very real sense, I feel that I am being made the victim here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Far left: Kathie Lee Gifford wasn't always smiling at her husband, Frank. Latrell Sprewell had no smiles for his coach. For Robert Downey Jr., it was a year to forget. For John Galliano, it was Belle Epoque II. Ruth Messinger had an identity crisis. Evander Holyfield had his ear chewed by Mike Tyson. Left: It was the year for the importance of being Oscar Wilde. The nanny verdict shocked onlookers, as well as the nanny; the verdict was reversed. Earl Spenser scolded the tabloids, then became fodder for them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-SEVEN JAIL SENTENCING (90%); MILLENNIUM (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); POP & ROCK (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (69%); COCAINE (67%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (66%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (66%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (66%); MUSIC (64%); 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM PRINCESS DIANA (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



626 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT;
Dear Mom and Dad: At Camp We Started Our Own Company

BYLINE: By VERNE G. KOPYTOFF 

 BODY:
MOST people think of summer camp as a place where children spend lazy days at the lake, roasting marshmallows and playing tug-of-war. Discussions of entrepreneurship, business and finance may seem out of place in such a carefree environment and, frankly, of little interest to most teen-agers.
But then there are young people like Heisi Figueroa, who started selling Avon cosmetics at age 16 -- when most children are starting to drive -- and now, a year later, oversees the work of two adults. For her, commerce is a hobby. And for Katy Meyer, 18, who devised a business plan to make hand-painted silk scarves at 14, and started selling them at a local store soon after, capitalism takes the place of high school sports. 
 To indulge their appetite for entrepreneurship, the two took part in Camp Start Up, where girls ages 13 to 18 ponder the meaning of words like "bootstrapping," create imaginary companies and learn to play golf because of the sport's importance in the business world. The camp, one of several youth summer programs in the country that focus on business, was founded in 1994 by Joline Godfrey, an author who runs An Income of Her Own, a nonprofit organization based in Santa Barbara, Calif., that promotes teaching girls about economics.
"Nearly 90 percent of all women will have to take care of themselves economically at some point in their lives," Ms. Godfrey said. "But girls tend to get less education about economics while they are growing up. The point is to show girls that owning their own company is accessible, that it is not just for extraordinary women whom they could never aspire to be."
Camp Start Up, which costs $1,400 for a two-week session, is held annually in late June at the Athenian School, a preparatory school in Danville, Calif., and a month later on the campus of Wellesley College, outside Boston. (Information is available by calling 805-646-1215.) While former students recalled traditional summer-camp pursuits like fawning over the swimming-pool lifeguard, they also said they worked until late at night on business presentations, talked with women entrepreneurs, and visited businesses owned by women, like some wineries in the Napa Valley of California.
A brochure says girls who graduate from Camp Start Up will leave with "a Rolodex full of names and addresses of new friends and new contacts." The curriculum for the roughly 30 campers each session includes topics like creating a business card, attending a "power lunch" and learning to dress for business.
To be sure, the camp's graduates still have much to learn about the more complicated aspects of commerce, including financing and business planning. Adolescents who are interested in business must generally wait until college to learn the details -- and those who become entrepreneurs, because of their age, must have their parents do the contractual paperwork.
Miss Figueroa, the high school junior from Chelsea, Mass., who sells cosmetics, said that attending camp last summer built her confidence and taught her about the arduous work it would take to realize her dream of opening a custom picture-framing store. She already makes picture frames in her spare time, selling them to relatives and friends.
"I like everything that has to do with money," she said. "At camp, our group of five girls had five different ideas for our business plan, so agreeing on something was difficult. I learned that if I want to make a business, I have to learn to communicate."
Boys are excluded from the program because they tend to monopolize discussions and make girls uncomfortable about offering opinions, Ms. Godfrey said. Or, in the words of Lelah Baker Rabe, 15, a former camper from Ojai, Calif., the absence of boys let girls "get beyond the flirty stuff and get to the heart of the business problems."
Of course, the benefits of a girls-only education are a subject of general debate. In addition, many champions of youth business programs that run year-round in many cities say their programs provide more opportunity for learning than a one- or two-week camp. The year-round programs, they say, allow students to build relationships with mentors and to obtain internships.
"It's fine to go to camp and have a brief exposure to business," said Susan Fisher, director of the Colorado Women's Business Office, which runs a yearlong after-school entrepreneurship program, Young Women of the West. "But that goes away. The question is: How do you have some ongoing exposure for these girls who six months later can hardly remember that they went to camp?"
Inevitably, some girls who attend Camp Start Up are pushed there by parents rather than by a personal desire to build a company from scratch. But Ms. Godfrey said most students left camp with a better understanding of business concepts.
Ms. Godfrey, who has written two books, including "No More Frogs to Kiss: 99 Ways to Give Economic Power to Girls" (Harper Business, 1995), began her career at Polaroid, where she worked in product development. She then founded Odysseum, a company that makes educational games for corporate employees, and later started An Income of Her Own. She also bought Independent Means, a company that sells games about economics, conducts seminars and sponsors Camp Start Up.
Miss Meyer, the former camper from Carlisle, Mass., now makes silk scarves at her home that sell in a local women's store for $100 to $180. She declined to be specific about her income, beyond saying that she makes more money from her business than is possible working as a sales clerk at the mall.
Miss Meyer is unsure about her career after college. Her only requirement is that she be in charge.
She says attending the camp was invaluable. "Programs like Camp Start Up really help young girls because they see women in business doing fabulously well and think 'Wow, I can be like that,' " she said.
 
Fun and Business
Camp Start Up is one of several business camps in the United States. Here is information on some others.

CAMP ENTREPRENEUR A weeklong, girls-only program organized by the National Education Center for Women in Business. Sites so far are Atlanta; Youngstown, Ohio; Jacksonville, Fla., and Locust Valley, N.Y.; more will be added. Dates to be determined. Ages: 12 to 19. Tuition: $225 to $495. Information: (800) 632-9248.
 
BIZ BUILDERS A coeducational camp sponsored by the National Foundation for Teaching Entrepreneurship, held in Wellesley, Mass. July 26 to Aug. 8. Tuition: $1,550. The foundation also offers Biz Camp, a free, coed camp for low-income students. Information for both camps: (800) 367-6383.
 
YOUTH ENTREPRENEURSHIP BUSINESS CAMP Educational Designs That Generate Excellence (E.D.G.E.), a company specializing in entrepreneurship education, conducts the one- and two-week coed camps, as well as weekend programs for students from elementary to high school. Locations include New York, Boston, Houston, San Diego and Atlanta. Tuition: $200 to $795. Some camps for low-income youths are free. Information: (800) 879-3343.
 
YOUNG AMERITOWNE CAMP A five-day camp in Denver sponsored by the Young Americans Education Foundation. Several programs will be offered June 16 to July 28, depending on the participant's age. No housing available. Tuition: $135. Information: (303) 321-2954.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joline Godfrey, left, started Camp Start Up in 1994 to teach girls ages 13 to 18 about business. Katy Meyer, 18, above, attended the camp and now makes and sells silk scarves from her home in Carlisle, Mass., for $100 to $180. (Kirsten Elstner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (55%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: CAMP START UP AVON COSMETICS SPA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAMP START UP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (55%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: CAMPS AND CAMPING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SMALL BUSINESS; WOMEN; ENTREPRENEURSHIP ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); CHILDREN (90%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); WOMEN (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); BUSINESS PLANS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); SPORTS (74%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); CURRICULA (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); COSMETICS (71%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (69%); WINERIES (50%); 

PERSON: KOPYTOFF, VERNE G; GODFREY, JOLINE

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



627 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
Caviar Dreams: The Robin Leach Portfolio

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
ROBIN LEACH, the British journalist turned television entertainer and entrepreneur, made his name as a chronicler of the rich and famous.
But Mr. Leach, who among other things is the spokesman for the Television Food Network and has a series, "Miracles and Wonders," on the USA Network, is himself an interesting case study of the pursuit of greater wealth. He invests widely in emerging markets and, following an interest born of his occupation, has big positions in the high-technology and telecommunications sectors. But he likes land, too, with property in Connecticut and a large stake in the Jumby Bay Club, a 300-acre resort off the coast of Antigua. 
 Mr. Leach, who is 56 and is married with three grown children and two grandchildren, recently explained his investment philosophy and described some of the successes and failures it has yielded.
Q. Have you always been interested in investing?
A. I had absolutely no interest in investing when I was growing up. It was only after I started to earn decent money in the United States -- I emigrated at age 21 -- that I learned there are vehicles other than certificates of deposit. Then, as you get the foot in the water you decide to put in your knee, and there is an immersion process.
Q. Just how immersed are you?
A. Well, my lawyer does my pension fund, I have two accounts at Bear, Stearns and five accounts at Bernard Harold & Company, a New York brokerage. But I don't have time to look after more than two of them.
One of those two is full of communications stocks, telephone and networking companies. More than half of that account is in telecommunications and technology. That account, which is more than seven figures, is where I do my really aggressive stuff, including investing in emerging markets.
The other portfolio, which is a good bit smaller, is a conservative one that includes stocks like Bethlehem Steel and Chrysler, as well as other telecommunications stocks.
Q. What would a pie chart of your assets look like?
A. About 59 percent of my money is in stocks, bonds and money market funds, with the bulk of that in stocks. Another 40 percent is in real estate -- the properties I own in Jumby Bay and in Connecticut. And the remaining 1 percent is in collectibles.
Q. How did you get interested in emerging markets?
A. Traveling overseas. You see how hard these countries are trying to put themselves on the same footing with the United States, and how little they spend on consumer pleasures. There are many things we can learn from people overseas about saving for the future, and about keeping the trilevel family intact.
Q. How long ago did you start investing in emerging markets?
A. About eight years ago, in a meaningful allocation.
Q. Has the meltdown in Asia hit you particularly hard?
A. I have lost money in Malaysia, but eventually I'll come out ahead. And I pulled out of Thailand, where I had done very well, some time ago.
Q. Which Malaysian stocks do you still own?
A. I still own shares in the YTL Corporation, which is a conglomerate in the hotel, power and construction businesses. I invested in it three years ago. It has slumped, but the company is large and still growing.
Q. Why did you get out of Thailand?
A. When I traveled there I noticed they had built all these amazing hotels and no one was in them, and prices were coming down. That was two years ago. I had made a reasonable profit there, and at that point I thought there were better opportunities in the United States.
Q. The high prices in the American market don't concern you?
A. Not really. I think this market has a long way to go. I think America has the world's leading economy. Just compare the way it dealt with the savings and loan crisis and how Asia is dealing with its problems. And there was much more money at stake in the American crisis.
But there are some problems with the market, which is becoming a division of show business. Stars are being made at CNBC and CNNfn by announcing financial results. I mean, the stock market is not Atlantic City and Las Vegas. You have to invest for the long term.
Q. How do you pick stocks?
A. I don't visit companies. It's mostly a gut feeling, plus a little help from my brokers. You mustn't be sold a stock; you must understand a stock. Pay attention to what is going on around you. You are your own best analyst.
I made a lot of money out of the mobile telephone business in Asia, for example, and the only reason I did was because I saw firsthand that many of their telephone systems are useless. That means buying cellular.
Q. How did you get so interested in high-tech and telecommunications stocks?
A. I have always been involved in the communications business, and I have always said you should stick to investing in what you know best. I don't think you have to be too knowledgeable, but you do have to follow your business and try to put yourself in management's shoes.
And right now, everybody even remotely connected with cable television, which is my business, is working on developing the best delivery system to get it into the home. In the end it will be the telephone companies buying the cable companies, or the cable companies buying the telephone companies. To me, all of these businesses, plus software companies like Microsoft, are so allied that they seem to be an expansion of the cable television business I am in.
Q. Which high-tech and telecommunications stocks do you own?
A. I have issues like Cox Cable, Intercable, CVC, Intel, Microsoft, Nokia and Sun Microsystems in my aggressive account. In my conservative account I own AT&T, Sprint, Lucent, Compaq Computer, Cisco Systems, Nextel, CBS, Bell Atlantic, GTE and Worldcom.
Q. Have you had any big winners recently?
A. It's funny, but the two stocks I have made the most money on in the last 12 months have nothing to do with telecommunications.
I own a stock called World Fuel Services, which is the only company that recycles aviation oil. It also provides fuel to non-major airlines. I bought the stock at about $11 and I own more than 11,000 shares. It is now trading at about $18.
The other one is AgribioTech, which I bought at about $1. I now own about 10,000 shares, and it is now trading at more than $16. That company will end up as the largest seed conglomerate in the world.
My broker at Bear, Stearns said they were both good companies with good growth prospects.
Q. Have you made any bad investments?
A. I have had minor losses in certain stocks, and in a few restaurants.
Q. Would you characterize yourself as an active investor?
A. Not really. I'm not all that serious about it. When I am at home I spend about 20 minutes a day on this. But I can go 10 days without looking at what I have. I am not what you would call an in-and-out trader.
Q. Many entertainers seem to be risk-averse investors. Is that true?
A. The rule of thumb among show-business people is that a certain amount of capital is invested in the most conservative of investments. That is because most of them are like freelance journalists: they are always worrying about where their next paycheck is coming from.
Q. You have met many rich and famous people. Did you ever get tips or hints from them about investing?
A. I have never asked for a stock tip in my life. I don't believe in them. I may have learned some lessons from the titans of industry we had on the show, but I have not taken any tips.
Q. From whom do you take your investing lessons?
A. I have tried to take the patient, value-oriented investment philosophy of a Warren Buffett or a Mark Mobius. Adnan Khashoggi, by contrast, would tend to be rather flippant with what he bought. You can learn both ways.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robin Leach, journalist-turned-entertainer, played Monopoly at New York's Regency Hotel in 1991 to raise money for Citymeals-on-Wheels. (Star File)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); ASIA (79%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); ASIA (79%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BONDS (77%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); CASE STUDIES (71%); RESORTS (71%); LAWYERS (70%); SECURITIES BROKERS (70%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (60%); 

PERSON: LEACH, ROBIN; GILPIN, KENNETH N ROBIN LEACH (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



628 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Panic Fighters Need a New J. P. Morgan

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Just over 90 years ago, the world's financial system seemed to be teetering. The Alexandria Stock Exchange had collapsed, and when the Bank of England sent gold to Egypt, a run on the pound followed. A wave of bank failures swept Japan.
In New York, trust companies -- a sort of bank -- were overleveraged and vulnerable. When one failed, panic followed. 
 In those days, there was no Federal Reserve System, and the United States Treasury did not know what to do. But the bankers of the era did. They summoned J. P. Morgan from an Episcopal church conference in Virginia. And he solved the problem.
Under Morgan's leadership, and with the help of some cash from the Government, decisions were made about which trust companies were hopelessly in debt, and which could be saved. "This is the place to stop the trouble," Morgan remarked as money was committed to stop a run on one institution that was believed to be basically sound.
Thus did the Panic of 1907 come to an end.
Last week, the world dealt very differently with the Panic of 1997. Extra billions were shipped quickly to South Korea to buy time. But the approach this time may be wrong. What is needed is not more government-to-government aid. What is needed is a plan to determine what parts of the Korean private sector -- particularly the banks -- are fundamentally sound, and which are not. Those that are hopeless should be left to fail, with the international banks that lent to them suffering losses. The others should get the cash needed to keep operating.
Ideally, the separation of the solvent from the insolvent would be made by Koreans. But there are no Koreans with the international stature needed. The old Korean Government failed to make the tough choices, and bears some of the blame because it encouraged banks to lend to favored companies. The new Government of Kim Dae Jung won't take office until February.
What we need is a new Morgan. Names like Robert E. Rubin, the Treasury Secretary; Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, and Karl Otto Pohl, the longtime boss of the German Bundesbank, come to mind. The latter two are investment bankers now, with conflicts of interest, but those could be dealt with.
Two things need to be avoided here. A collapse of the Korean economy is one, and clearly the World Bank and International Monetary Fund are attuned to that. But the other, while more subtle, is no less real: Koreans will suffer no matter what happens, but they must not be given reason to believe that their sacrifices are for the sake of foreign banks that foolishly financed excesses by Korean banks.
There is talk of somehow having the Korean Government take over the international debts of its sick banks, and then negotiating stretched-out payments. That would be unfortunate. It would lump into one basket the loans that never should have been made with those that would have been fine but for the panic. And it would leave the new Korean Government saddled with huge debts.
The I.M.F.'s prescription for ailing economies makes sense for countries where the sins are those of governments that spent too much and taxed too little. But in the new world financial order, the sins are more likely to be in the private sector, albeit with Government connivance or, at best, inadequate regulation. The world must find a way to deal with such crises. Evaluating the credit of each big Korean bank, and acting on that basis, is a good way to start.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Whither the Won?"
Value of 10,000 Korean won, last three months.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BANK OF ENGLAND (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; CREDIT BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); BANK FAILURES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (71%); FOREIGN LENDING (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



629 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
The Year of the Bodega Bust

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY 

 BODY:
IT's Christmas Day just after dusk, and at a corner delicatessen on Avenue D things seem pretty bleak.
Crudely taped-on posters and boxes of laundry detergent block out most of the windows, and paint peels in strips from the tin awning. The lights in the glassed refrigerators are off, and dusty cans of dog food and soup sit untouched on the shelves. A few customers breeze in and out, but most of the business seems to consist of 10-cent candies and the occasional cigar. 
 Despite appearances, the Police Department suspects that the owners of the deli are actually doing quite well for themselves.
The location is one of a dozen or so establishments -- delis, candy stores, beauty salons, ice cream parlors and other small businesses -- on the Lower East Side that are under surveillance by police officers who believe that heroin, cocaine, marijuana or other drugs are being sold covertly over (or under) the counter.
The investigation of the deli on Avenue D, which began last month, is part of an continuous crackdown on what law-enforcement officials say is one of more persistent presences in the city's drug trade: the storefront retail operation.
The police operation is having a profound effect on the sidewalk landscape of this neighborhood and several others, shuttering seedy drug fronts, scattering dealers and paving the way for grass-roots entrepreneurship in the tiny commercial spaces that illicit proprietors leave behind.
Indeed, while civic boosters may point to the new Times Square and bull-market prosperity as evidence of the city's renewal, the decline of the drug bodega on the Lower East Side offers a more immediate street-level picture of the boom.
The police have raided many of the storefronts before. What's new is the confidence with which new businesses -- coffee shops, bars, boutiques -- have gobbled up places that once repeatedly reopened under owners whose motives were suspect.
In this scenario, the storefront bust opens the way for commercial pioneers: the real estate risk takers and night-life entrepreneurs.
The crackdown began as a pilot program on the Lower East Side in 1995, and later expanded to northern Brooklyn, the central Bronx, upper Manhattan and central and eastern Queens, police officials said.
This year, police in the Seventh and Ninth Precincts on the east side of lower Manhattan have closed 65 locations suspected of being drug fronts, according to Police Department statistics.
By using a wide variety of nuisance-abatement laws, as well fire and health code inspections and undercover work, the police have closed 443 businesses citywide for criminal violations in the last nine months alone, Police Commissioner Howard Safir said. In addition to drug offenses, some businesses have been closed for permitting gambling, trafficking in stolen goods and prostitution.
The prospective new business owners who take over undergo periodic background checks. Mr. Safir called this a "holistic approach" that is intended to stop the cycle of raid, closing, opening, raid.
The Police Department's legal department is also working closely with landlords to evict tenants; in addition, some landlords who have allowed criminal activity to flourish are being prosecuted.
The community welcomes the busts. Armando Perez, Democratic district leader for the Lower East Side, said he had heard no complaints about police harassment from legitimate bodega owners.
"Anyone could tell what's a real bodega and what's a front," he said. "You walk in and there are only two types of cigarettes -- it's not a real good sign."
The signs of change are visible everywhere. Along a stretch of upper Avenue B between 10th and 14th Streets, the police have raided four drug fronts this year. In their place are a pair of restaurants, two refurbished retail spaces and Musical Box, a trendy bar.
In many cases, landlords are big winners. Tenants say they are commanding upward of $3 a square foot for spaces that previously rented for less than half of that.
At 133 Avenue C, between East Eighth and Ninth Streets, Dimitri Vlahakis and Stephan Gerville-Reache are hard at work preparing their new lounge, Baraza, for a late January opening. It sits across the street from an abandoned lot where wild dogs bark and squeal at every passer-by.
Still, Mr. Vlahakis says he feels lucky to have the space, which was a deli until March when it was closed on suspicion of selling cocaine. The orange Police Department sticker announcing the bust still clings to the front window.
"A lot of people prefer to be a little more out of the way, on the edge," Mr. Vlahakis said. "This area, this whole city, is changing and we're a good part of the change."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alleging that drug sales have taken place, law-enforcement authorities have shuttered bodegas at Avenue A and East 12th Street (top) and Avenue B and East 13th Street. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times); On Avenue B between East 10th and 14th Streets, the police raided four drug fronts this year. In their place are restaurant and retail spaces and Musical Box, a trendy bar. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)
 
Map: "THE CRACKDOWN: Paving the Way for Commerce"
The Police Department has been cracking down on storefront drug operations in several locations in the city. The effort has been particularly dramatic in the Lower East Side, where scores of businesses were closed or evicted in the first 10 months of 1997. Map shows locations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOWER EAST SIDE (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-SEVEN; EVICTIONS LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); RETAILERS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (88%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CITY LIFE (87%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (75%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); LARCENY & THEFT (73%); CANNABIS (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (71%); ICE CREAM (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); HEROIN (68%); COCAINE (68%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (60%); NUISANCE (60%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); PROSTITUTION (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: SAFIR, HOWARD (COMR); MCKINLEY, JESSE

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



630 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Turks Reinvent Their World

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL

 BODY:
JUST a year ago, Turkey seemed to be setting out on a profoundly important geopolitical journey. Guided by an Islamic-oriented Prime Minister, Necmettin Erbakan, it was turning away from the West and toward the Muslim world. Mr. Erbakan sent shivers down spines in Washington as he turned his back on Turkey's traditional allies and embraced the leaders of Iran and Libya.
Today the circumstances are radically different. Mr. Erbakan has been forced from power, and his party may soon be banned on the ground that it seeks to undermine the secular and Western-oriented basis of Turkish society. But his successor, Mesut Yilmaz, evidently shares his belief that Turkey needs a new set of friends. 
 Mr. Yilmaz, with the backing of the military that helped oust Mr. Erbakan, disagrees deeply with his predecessor's belief that Turkey should embrace the Islamic world. But he agrees that Turkey's future no longer lies in embracing the exclusively European identity that many Turks have sought for generations.
 
New Partners
Under Mr. Yilmaz, Turkey is striving to redefine its place in the world, by tying its future to America, Russia, Israel and the new nations of the Caucasus, Central Asia and the Balkans.
Turkey first applied for membership in the European Union in 1963, and for much of the time since then it has sat patiently at Europe's closed gate. Two weeks ago, at a summit in Luxembourg, European leaders again rejected Turkey's plea that it should at least be given some encouragement, if it could not be admitted quickly. Mr. Yilmaz reacted angrily, freezing ties with the European Union and setting out to reshape his country's foreign policy.
In the world Mr. Yilmaz sees, Turkey will no longer base its policy on the suggestions, criticisms and occasional insults that issue forth from Brussels. Like a suitor too often spurned, it will stop banging at Europe's door. It may still seek to improve its human rights record, resolve the Kurdish conflict and improve relations with Greece, but it will do so without guidance from the European Union.
"They have used our application for full membership in the Union as a means of leverage," Mr. Yilmaz said in an interview. "Nobody should think that Turkey will be forced to accept some unacceptable formulas just because we don't want to be left out of the E.U."
Immediately after the disappointment in Luxembourg, Mr. Yilmaz met with Russian and American leaders. He was warmly received in Washington by President Clinton, who emphasized how important it is for the United States to have a dependable ally wedged between the turbulent Balkans, Caucasus and Middle East. Soon after his return to Ankara he received Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin of Russia, and after signing a $13.5 billion gas deal, both men pledged to begin clearing the debris left by centuries of rivalry. Mr. Chernomyrdin said he was working to arrange a visit to Turkey by President Boris N. Yeltsin, and there were hints in Washington that President Clinton might also come calling.
Last week Mr. Yilmaz visited Turkmenistan, which controls part of the vast oil and gas reserve in and around the Caspian Sea. Turkey's booming economy is starved for energy, and able to offer much trade and expertise to neighbors in exchange for fuel.
The final major piece in Turkey's new strategic positioning is Israel. The two countries' armies were working together even under the Islamic-led Government, and now their Governments have become astonishingly close. Generals, cabinet ministers and legislators are working on scores of development projects and designing what they hope will be a long-term military alliance. Next month Turkish, Israeli and American warships will join in a military exercise in the Mediterranean code-named "Reliant Mermaid."
These steps add up to a very new message from Ankara, one that may reshape the political map of the region. Turkey is saying that it no longer needs to count on either the European Union or the Islamic world. Instead it will forge what Mr. Yilmaz calls "strategic partnerships" with the United States and Israel, try to strengthen its ties with Russia and renew its effort to make friends in the Caucasus, Central Asia and the Balkans.
 
The Risks
It is a high-stakes gamble. The Israeli piece of the new puzzle seems firm, based on each country's desperate need for a friend in a very dangerous neighborhood. Yet although many Turks are sympathetic to Israel, they are deeply upset with the current Israeli Government, which they view as oppressive and needlessly brutal to their Palestinian cousins. A close alliance between the two countries makes strategic sense to Turkish military planners, but it could stir popular resentment from which Islamic political leaders might profit.
The United States recognizes the value of Turkey's friendship, although powerful Greek, Armenian and pro-Kurdish lobbies in Washington will make it difficult for President Clinton to draw the two countries as close together as he would like. Russia, consumed with problems at home and tugged toward Greece by history and religion, cannot be counted upon. And while most of the Caucasian, Central Asian and Balkan countries are open to Turkey, Turkey must compete for influence there with other powerful players.
"It is a policy no longer fixated on Europe," said Foreign Minister Ismail Cem. "Turkey has a geo-strategic dimension that it previously was not very conscious of. With the downfall of the old Soviet order, a lot of new problems but also a lot of new chances surfaced. Something like 20 countries with whom we have historical and cultural affinities became independent states.
"These changes, and a growing consciousness of our European and Asian identity, have provided us with a new approach to this vast area instead of just being concentrated on one thing," Mr. Cem said.
"That fixation was the result of a limited outlook, of feeling that we had to resolve a conflict over whether we are European or Asian," he said. "Culturally, historically and geographically, we are a global state, and now we are becoming more aware of that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz with President Clinton in Washington. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); TURKEY (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); LUXEMBOURG (91%); GREECE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: ANKARA, TURKEY (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (56%); 

COMPANY: ;EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY; EUROPE; RUSSIA; ISRAEL; EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); TURKEY (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); LUXEMBOURG (91%); GREECE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); ANKARA, TURKEY (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (56%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TURKEY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-TURKEY; EUROPE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-TURKEY RELIGION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: YILMAZ, MESUT (PRIME MIN); ERBAKAN, NECMETTIN BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



631 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Hanoi Now, Meet Saigon Then

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam

 BODY:
SAIGON, as most of the 5 million people who live here still call this place, was supposed to become Hanoi after the Vietnamese Communists won the war in 1975. Instead, Hanoi has become Saigon.
Up in the northern capital, loudly buzzing swarms of Honda motor scooters clog the narrow streets, which only 15 years ago were filled mostly with bicycles. Stalls run by small entrepreneurs selling or recycling everything conceivable pack the streets and market halls there just as they do here in Saigon. There is nothing that is not for sale someplace in either city, including sex. 
 Four decades after the French pulled out in 1954, the Communists have preserved Hanoi's spacious French villas and ochre-colored administrative buildings, not allowing them to be subjected to the ravages inflicted on similar tree-shaded neighborhoods in Saigon by the American influx of the 1960's. But except for the absence of G.I.'s, Hanoi now feels and sounds for all the world like Saigon did back then -- a wild, on-the-make city driven by powerful forces beyond its control.
Thirty years ago, those uncontrollable forces were the destructive winds of war. The Communists won the war, of course, but at first they didn't seem to know what to do with the victory and watched millions of their countrymen flee misery and oppression.
Then, a decade ago, Ho Chi Minh's successors changed economic course and opened Vietnam to the global economy, and recently as many as 200,000 overseas Vietnamese have been coming back each year to visit, and even to invest.
 
The B-52 Becomes a Drink
Yet it would be premature to conclude, as some have done after downing a B-52 cocktail in a trendy Hanoi eatery like the Indochine, that America or the values of democracy and free enterprise ultimately won the war.
The Vietnamese Communists -- like the Chinese authorities or the Government in Saigon during the war -- want free enterprise without undisciplined democracy. There is still only one party here, Ho Chi Minh's, and the authorities muzzle the Vietnamese press and cinema.
Foreign investors, on the other hand, are welcome to bring their money, and companies from Southeast Asian countries have poured it in in recent years, with more than $5 billion from Singapore alone since 1988, $4 billion from Taiwan, $3.7 billion from Hong Kong and $3.3 billion from Japan. One result is the emergence of skyscraper skylines both here and in Hanoi in just the past few years.
But the entrepreneurs are not welcome to bring in ideas the Government here regards as subversive. Any province or district chief can impose administrative restraints on the freedom of any citizen considered dangerous to the regime, and any overseas Vietnamese fitting that description soon find themselves on a plane back to wherever they came from.
Government censors watch vigilantly over every medium of expression, and their threats can be Draconian. They told one Vietnamese artist who returned to produce a commercial film in Vietnam that if he failed to abide by their strictures, his relatives living here would be held responsible.
"There are dissidents in this country who have tried to work with overseas Vietnamese against the Government, but military and police measures have kept them under control," said Dr. Nguyen Ngoc Ha, the senior official in Saigon dealing with Vietnamese from abroad.
Still, the same kind of heady excitement that was in the air in Moscow in the late 1980's, when Mikhail S. Gorbachev was trying to reform Communism there, is blowing in the wind here.
Fifteen years ago, when the Marxist-Leninist vise had Saigon tightly by the throat, few Vietnamese dared disobey an official ban on talking with foreign visitors. Today, with nearly 2 million tourists a year in the country, the injunction is on the books but rarely enforced.
 
Freedom to Profit
In addition, economic freedom has vastly expanded the sphere in which ordinary Vietnamese are able to make decisions for themselves, and they are using it to the full. "The police are still there, but they put a lot less pressure on us," said one small entrepreneur who, because he had worked for Americans during the war, found himself frozen out of the Socialist economy for years afterward.
Even at that, he was one of the comparatively lucky ones; officers who had served in the South Vietnamese Army were put through "re-education" in prison camps for as long as 10 years. Others tainted by association with the Saigon regime or with the Americans were cast aside to scrape by as best they could, while committed Communists and people from North Vietnam got preference for jobs in state-run companies and in admission to universities that are the training ground for the governing and commercial elite.
Nowadays, some people here in Saigon say that northerners continue to benefit from reverse discrimination in the state sector, but because the private sector is growing so fast, it doesn't matter as much as it used to. "Private companies don't care which side your father was on during the war," one 25-year-old office worker here said. Conversations with a number of Vietnamese her age leave the impression that the office worker's generation is not interested in settling historical scores -- just in catching up with history.
"As they grow more prosperous, there'll be more respect for human rights," said Douglas B. (Pete) Peterson, who returned to Hanoi as the American Ambassador last spring, having spent six and a half years there as a prisoner of war after his Air Force plane was shot down in 1966.
Dr. Ha, who spent 28 years in France before coming back in 1976, agreed. "We will be more tolerant as we get stronger," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Expensive lingerie is visible now in the shop windows of Vietnam's capital and other major cities, where some women can afford it. In Hanoi, Japanese electronic goods are flooding the market, one more sign that average incomes are continuing to rise. (Photographs by Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (72%); 7267 (TSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (72%); 

COUNTRY: VIETNAM (98%); VIET NAM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (98%); HANOI, VIETNAM (95%); 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; HANOI (VIETNAM); VIETNAM (98%); VIET NAM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (98%); HANOI, VIETNAM (95%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (86%); SMALL ENGINE MFG (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); CENSORSHIP (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TRENDS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); GLOBALIZATION (64%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



632 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Easy Money;
Borrowing Asia's Troubles

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
WANT to make some easy money? No problem. Drop in at Chase Manhattan Bank and ask to borrow some yen. Chase and other big banks will happily lend yen at an interest rate that can't be beat: 2.75 percent, all charges included. Even a desperate used car salesman won't lend money that cheap.
Now take those borrowed yen and convert them to dollars. With the dollars, buy a Government-guaranteed Treasury bond, yielding nearly 6 percent a year. Sit back and enjoy the spread of three percentage points. If you borrow $1 million, that's the easiest $30,000 a year you'll ever see. Or better yet, put $1 million in stock. The Dow Jones industrial average is up nearly 20 percent this year, and if 1998 is only half as good, that is still a $72,000 return on $1 million in borrowed yen. 
 The Asian tigers (remember them?) borrowed lots of yen to help finance their booms. Japan has kept interest rates absurdly low in hopes that Japanese would borrow and spend and lift their own economy out of its severe doldrums. The Japanese haven't borrowed, despite the lure. But everyone else has. Chase pays less than 1 percent for yen, which it re-lends at interest rates two or three times higher. Other banks and brokerage firms do the same.
 
Loans to Debts
Naturally, there's a catch. Asia's boom has famously collapsed, and those yen loans that looked like can't-miss free money are now huge unpaid debts. And it's worth noting that the borrowing of yen, which helped Asia boom and then collapse, is going on unabated in the United States, too. Bankers call it the "carry trade."
"It is a very dangerous game, this carry trade, a house of cards," said Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Company, a big Wall Street house that engages in the carry trade itself. "With Japan weak and Asia getting weaker by the minute, the players in this game find themselves turning to American Treasuries and stocks."
The risks should give pause. The biggest is that the Japanese yen will rise in value. A 4 percent rise in the $1 million worth of yen borrowed by Chase's customer suddenly takes $1,040,000 to repay, turning what seemed like an easy profit into a loss. That very fear, that the yen was about to rise in value, hit the securities market earlier this month for about two hours, and there was a rush to sell Treasury notes to cover outstanding loans. But the marketplace soon decided the yen would not appreciate, and trading subsided. The gamble sustaining the carry trade is that the yen will continue to lose value.
Chase, of course, protects itself. Its borrower has to be a preferred customer, someone worth millions, whose savings can be taken if the speculation goes wrong. But the big players in this game are not individuals. They are investment houses like Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch and hedge funds that specialize in risky investments, the carry trade being one of them.
"A whole panoply of financial institutions are engaged in this business, trading for themselves," said Henry Kaufman, an economist and money manager. "The level is unprecedented."
No one really knows how much of this risky money is coming into the American stock and bond markets through the carry trade, from foreigners or Americans. The amounts invested from overseas are clearly way up in recent quarters, the Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic Analysis reports. But neither the bureau nor the Bank for International Settlement, which tracks this sort of data, has breakdowns by currency or by type of transaction.
"What you have to do is infer," said Russell Scholl, a bureau economist. "There is not going to be hard evidence."
What he and others infer is that the carry trade is alive and thriving on Wall Street, but the amounts involved, $100 billion to $200 billion, are relatively small in the multitrillion-dollar American markets. If the gamble backfires, stock and bond prices might gyrate for a while. The Federal Reserve might be alarmed. And some big financial institutions will report eye-catching losses for the quarter in question.
Asia is another matter. Lending yen in the American market has far less impact on the national economy than lending foreign currencies in much smaller Thailand or South Korea. The huge bailouts by the International Monetary Fund are in large part to reimburse foreign lenders whose gambles went wrong. Japanese banks and European banks with operations in Japan were the biggest players, but American banks lent plenty, too.
The borrower in this case may have been a Korean industrialist seeking to build a factory. He went to a Korean bank and learned that the cheapest loan originated in yen. The industrialist borrowed in the Korean currency, the won, and agreed to make repayment in won. Say he borrowed $10 million worth of won. His bank then financed that loan by borrowing an equal amount in yen from a Japanese or European or American bank.
These foreign bankers borrowed the yen at less than 1 percent, re-lent it at 2.5 to 3 percent to the Korean banker, who charged the industrialist a higher rate, say 8 or 9 percent -- all nice markups for the banks. Sometimes the industrialist went directly to the foreign lender, bypassing his local banker and borrowing for less than 8 or 9 percent. And sometimes the loans were not in yen, but in dollars. After all, dollar loans are available for as little as 5 percent and, re-lent in Korea, can still produce a nice markup.
There was, of course, a gamble. This lending worked only if the won kept its value against the yen and the dollar. The industrialist made his monthly loan payment of, say, $150,000 in won and his Korean banker converted these won into an equal sum in yen or dollars to repay the overseas lender. That worked for a long time, and then two things happened. The won fell in value so that the industrialist's monthly payment no longer was enough to purchase $150,000 in yen or dollars. And many industrialists found that their new factories failed to make money, so they defaulted on their loans.
In various forms in different countries, that is the essence of the Asian crisis. By the best and most recent estimate available, South Korea owed $100 billion as of last December to foreign banks, mainly in Japan, Germany, the United States and France. The International Monetary Fund's $57 billion bailout is intended in large part to help Korea repay these creditors. So is the Clinton Administration's decision, announced last week, to join other industrial countries in supplying an additional $10 billion in emergency aid to Korea. The Administration has also prodded American banks to postpone their deadlines for loan repayments. Unless they do, the won is likely to keep falling in value.
 
Fault All Over
So who's to blame for all this mess, and what can be done? The Koreans are lambasted for reckless borrowing. And the foreign banks are increasingly singled out for encouraging the reckless borrowing, which for the banks was so profitable. But the system is also at fault. It periodically creates situations in which money can be borrowed at a low rate in one currency and re-lent in another at a much higher rate. The loans are invariably short-term, for a year or less, but always with the promise that they will be rolled over indefinitely as long as one currency or another does not lose value.
That is like betting on a lame horse to win. Devaluation always seems to catch lenders and borrowers off guard, although they bounce back for more, the lure of easy money being rather powerful. The solution, some experts say, is new global regulations or capital controls that impose restrictions on such lending across borders or make it less profitable. As Mr. Kaufman, the economist and money manager, said, "Markets don't always work the way they should."

GRAPHIC: Photo illustration by Darryl Palmas/The New York Times from photograph by Myron J. Dorf/The Stock Market. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (95%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ASIA (95%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); BONDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); TRENDS (69%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



633 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: Trouble in Zambia

 BODY:
Zambia, one of the first African countries to hold multiparty elections in the early 1990's, now seems to be sliding back toward authoritarianism. A particularly worrisome development was the Christmas Day arrest of former President Kenneth Kaunda, the man who led Zambia to independence. The Government hopes to link Mr. Kaunda to a failed coup attempt last October, when he was out of the country. Under an emergency law that permits detention without charges or trial, Mr. Kaunda can be held for four weeks, during which his supporters fear he could be tortured or killed.
Mr. Kaunda was no liberal democrat during the 27 years he ruled Zambia. He stifled the press, jailed critics and permitted only one party. Protests forced him into free elections in 1991, which he lost to Frederick Chiluba, a trade union leader he had earlier jailed. Mr. Chiluba's promises of democracy and free markets excited broad hopes. But six years later, his rule has turned increasingly arbitrary. 
 Before last year's election, he rewrote the Constitution to bar Mr. Kaunda and another opposition leader from running. The United States and other countries rightly responded by reducing their aid programs. Earlier this year, donor nations agreed to restore the cuts provided Zambia improved its performance on privatizing industry and combating corruption.
Then in October, a group of military officers staged a bumbling coup attempt, which was easily suppressed. Since then, Mr. Chiluba has sharply stepped up his repression, jailing scores of political opponents. Mr. Kaunda may indeed have had some link to the coup. But that can only be determined by a fair trial. To fulfill its promises of economic freedom and governmental accountability, the Chiluba Government must return to the rule of law. Foreign donors should hold up their aid until it does.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: ZAMBIA (96%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZAMBIA; ZAMBIA (96%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ARRESTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COUPS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); CHRISTMAS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (54%); 

PERSON: KAUNDA, KENNETH D; CHILUBA, FREDERICK (PRES) FREDERICK CHILUBA (92%); FREDERICK JACOB TITUS CHILUBA (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



634 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 9; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Office Pool, 1998

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Within each question, you're allowed the choice of one, none or all.
1. Most startling intelligence coup: (a) neo-Angletonian Waldemar Skotzko finds Primakov's mole; (b) U.N. inspectors learn that Saddam's cache of anthrax spores has been moved outside Iraq; (c) Castro's Cuban intelligence, voted "best network in the U.S." by world spookery, switches allegiance from Russia to China. 
 2. Busiest new-book buzz among the cognoscenti will be about (a) Syracuse U. Prof. Mary Karr's "Viper Rum" poems; (b) Peggy Noonan's golden-voiced oratorical advice to a tongue-tangled generation, "Simply Speaking"; (c) Restaurateur George Lang's "Nobody Knows the Truffles I've Seen"; (d) Anna Quindlen's best novel, "Black and Blue."
PUB-DATE: UNKNOWN 3, 1998
4. In the 1998 Senate races, (a) Illinois Republicans choose moderate woman who then trounces Carol Moseley-Braun to attain filibuster-breaking majority of 60; (b) Democrats overcome retirements of Glenn, Ford and Bumpers to hold their 55-45 minority.
5. Oscars: (a) best picture and director to "Titanic"; (b) best screenplay and supporting actor to "Good Will Hunting"; (c) special award to Mia Farrow as "mother-in-law of the year."
6. In the Great Asian Shakeout, (a) South Korean work ethic will undergird strong comeback; (b) Japan will forsake keiretsu and adopt American model; (c) the U.S. Congress will draw the line at jacking-up Jakarta; (d) Chinese rising underemployment will trigger unrest in cities; (e) Singapore remains authoritarian and sinks.
7. In the U.S. economy, (a) the big new worry will be deflation, causing the Fed to lower interest rates; (b) nervous bulls will regroup, and with growth climbing to 4 percent, will run the D.J. index over 9,000; (c) Chicken Little analysts will be right about the world shakeout and the sky will fall.
8. The show trial approaching O. J.'s in drama will be (a) Web Hubbell on a charge of taking Riady hush money; (b) Paula Jones against the President, the press corps and the feminists; (c) Reno's impeachment in the Senate; (d) Hillary's defense against perjury and obstruction of justice.
9. The competition between Clinton and the G.O.P. to distribute the "balanced budget dividend" will (a) flatten income-tax rates, with only two stages to stay simple and retain progressivity; (b) replace the income tax and payroll tax with a national sales tax, with rebates to the poor; (c) promote social policy with tax credits to companies that provide health care, day care and auto care.
10. As Saddam Hussein flouts U.N. inspections, President Clinton, with multilateral approval, will (a) rule nothing in; (b) rule nothing out; (c) rule nothing.
11. Israeli-Arab agreement (a) will founder over Jerusalem; (b) will be built on Sharon's West Bank partition map and Syria's worry about a Turkish-Israeli squeeze; (c) will not come about until Clinton and Netanyahu face their "legacy spring" of 2000.
12. By year's end, the G.O.P. Presidential primary activists will be (a) roiled by the far-right infighting of John Ashcroft, Gary Bauer and Pat Buchanan; (b) surprised by the fund-raising of newly popular Pete Wilson; (c) wondering if Dan Quayle's shrewd big-tentism will lose him right-to-lifers; (d) impressed by Lamar Alexander's relentless Iowa campaign; (e) putting money on George Bush; (f) putting Steve Forbes's money on them; (g) furious at John McCain's campaign-finance compromise.
13. Top prosecutor: (a) Mary Jo White, shaking up the A.F.L.-C.I.O. leadership; (b) Robert Morgenthau, appointed campaign-scandal Indy Counsel; (c) David Barrett, following the Cisneros case into the Justice Department; (d) Donald Smaltz, bringing Tyson's chickens home to roost; (e) Hickman Ewing, if he can get nail-nibbling Ken Starr to take the plunge.
14. As Yeltsin totters, the seven criminal oligarchs choose (a) Moscow Mayor Luzhkov and General Lebed, salable and buyable; (b) Chernomyrdin and Chubais, steadfast and corruptible; (c) Nemtsov and Yavlinsky, reformist and West-oriented.
My choices: 1-c, 2-all, 3-b, 4-a, 5-b, 6-all, 7-b, 8-b, 9-c, 10-b, 11-c, 12-all, 13-e, 14-c. In a good year, I get three right.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); CHINA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-EIGHT POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (72%); ANTHRAX (72%); POLITICS (72%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (72%); DRAMA LITERATURE (69%); ETHICS (68%); ELECTIONS (67%); FILIBUSTER (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (65%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (64%); DEFLATION (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



635 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By DAVID RAMPE

 BODY:

RETAILING
Barely Merry
A sparkling economy failed to deliver the snappy holiday season that retailers were counting on. Analysts and merchants estimated that sales were up a scant 2 to 3 percent from December of last year. This was the third lackluster Christmas season in a row, despite the sterling economy and the wealth-generating gains of the stock market. Analysts said the disappointment underscored the harsh necessity for retailers to come to grips with the season's diminishing value to them. "It took stores years to learn that Easter had disappeared as a selling holiday," said Peter Schaeffer, a retail analyst on Wall Street. "They have to realize that you can't count on Christmas anymore either." And even where sales were strong, profit margins were often weak because of discounting. Economists cited high consumer debt, the diminishing tendency of extended families to gather around the Christmas tree and the simple exhaustion of working couples trying to muster the energy to go to the mall. 

SOUTH KOREA
More Aid, and Faster
South Korea got another $10 billion in emergency aid, as Washington and its allies decided that they could not wait for Seoul to get through its economic chaos without further help. The $57 billion bailout announced on Dec. 3 was led by the International Monetary Fund, and further aid was mentioned then only as a "second line of defense." Now Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin has reversed himself and agreed to lend $1.7 billion in early January to stabilize the Korean currency, which has sunk far below its summer levels. He also agreed to press big commercial lenders from Japan, Europe and the United States to extend the deadlines on the repayment of Korean loans.
 
PROFIT RISKS
Eyes on Asia
Moody's downgraded the government debt of South Korea, Indonesia and Thailand to "junk" status. That hurts their ability to raise money to pull themselves out of their financial crises. American technology companies say Asia hasn't yet caused them much of a problem, but they are watching vigilantly to see whether first-quarter profits will suffer. Intel, for instance, says the impact has been negligible, because some of the hard-hit countries aren't big markets for computer chips. But it is keeping China and India under scrutiny, wary that the turmoil might spill over.
 
WALL STREET
Stock-Pricing Settlement
Thirty brokerage firms, including some of the biggest and most trusted names on Wall Street, agreed to pay about $900 million to settle a civil suit contending that they schemed with one another to fix prices on the Nasdaq stock market. The case was unusual, focusing not on investor complaints about theft and fraud, but on accusations of collusion among competing brokers to fix stock prices. Investigations of the practices led to reforms in Nasdaq pricing. Brokerages taking part in the settlement included Merrill Lynch; Goldman, Sachs, and Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover.
 
HEALTH AND BEAUTY
Tossing That Toupee
The Food and Drug Administration has approved the first-ever anti-baldness pill, from Merck. In studies, the pill promoted the growth of hair or at least stopped hair loss in 83 percent of the men who took it. "This is not a panacea," but it is promising, said Dr. E. William Frank, a dermatologist in Boston. The studies also show a slight risk of impotence, but critics mainly say the whole quest for a baldness cure is frivolous. Still, "one man's frivolity," said Dr. Michael Weintraub, the director of the F.D.A. office that evaluated the drug, Propecia, "is another man's serious problem." He should know; he, himself, is bald, like 33 million other American men. None of the men who took the pill in experiments grew back a full head of hair. But before-and-after photographs showed visible improvement in two-thirds of those taking the pill. Propecia is to be available in pharmacies in January, at a cost of $45 to $49 a month.
 
SPYING
Checking Out the Neighbors
With the latest spy satellite, anyone with a credit card can view secret military bases and even look over the high fences of neighbors' backyards. The satellite, launched last week in Russia for an American company, Earthwatch, based near Denver, is the first of a dozen that companies around the world plan to put into space in the next decade. It is supposed to see features on the ground as small as 10 feet long -- even cars and trucks, as well as buildings, roads and bridges. And customers are said to be lining up, at prices that climb to as high as $725 an image. The devices raise knotty security and privacy questions, but the companies prefer to emphasize their usefulness in map-making, law enforcement, oil exploration and disaster relief. And in a surreal reversal of spying norms, they are even likely to be used by civilians checking out military targets; for example, public interest groups hope to monitor arms treaties.
 
BOND BOOMLET
Back to the 60's
Long-term interest rates may be closing in on levels that investors have not seen for almost 30 years. Whether yields fall to that range, around 5.75 percent, will depend on how quickly the robust economy begins to slow. The economy grew at an annual pace of nearly 4 percent through the third quarter.
 
FASHION
The Wandering Yuppie
Asians have been a mainstay of the fashion houses. Many design companies have pegged their growth to the Pacific, mostly with goodies like handbags and perfumes that fit in the overhead compartment of an airplane. But Asia's tumult is being felt in Paris, Milan and New York. "The wealthy Asian consumer just went over the cliff," said Edward Yardeni, chief economist at the investment bank Deutsche Morgan Grenfell. "Most of these high-end retailers that had been counting on Asian yuppies are stuck with American yuppies for now." Gucci's stock is down, and LVMH Moet Hennessy-Louis Vuitton, the largest luxury products company in the world, is suffering.
 
ENTERTAINMENT
Seinfeld Walks, NBC Hurts
"Seinfeld," the most popular television comedy of the 1990's, is calling it quits. Jerry Seinfeld, the show's creator and star, said that after nine seasons it was time to end production, and "as a comedian, my sense of timing is everything." The loss is a blow to NBC, which has lost prime-time strength this season. The show has anchored NBC's big Thursday night since 1993, leading the network to its No. 1 position in the ratings and to record-making profits, approaching $1 billion this year. "Seinfeld" alone has made profits estimated at more than $200 million a year, and for the last full year, including repeats, it has been the most-watched show ever.
 
TRAVEL AGENTS
Man vs. Machine
Surf the Web, but hold on to your travel agent. That's the advice from PC Magazine, which found that "if a lower fare comes along two minutes after you book yours, no travel Web site has any means of letting you know, as a travel agent can." It tried out 15 sites and said the best was www.biztravel.com, which among other things can book flights with frequent-flier miles.
 
TOURISM
Terror Stings Egypt
Winter has long been considered a choice time to see the Pyramids. But this year, the massacre at Luxor is leaving hotel rooms empty and tourist guides unemployed. Tourists lined up to leave Luxor right away after the attack. Egypt's Tourism Minister, Mamdou el-Beltagi, said, "We are facing the biggest crisis in the history of tourism in Egypt." Before the attack, 1997 seemed likely to be a record tourist year. Now, cancellations have left landmarks like the 110-year-old Winter Palace Hotel in Luxor all but empty.

GRAPHIC: Photos (NBC; Reuters)
 
Graph shows yield on 30-year Treasuries, since July.
 
Drawing by Tom Bloom

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (81%); GS (NYSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); ASIA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (55%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (81%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); INTEL CORP (52%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (50%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); ASIA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RETAILERS (92%); RETAIL SALES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); CARTELS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); FAMILY (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); LITIGATION (63%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (63%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); COMPUTER CHIPS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



636 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
On the Way Out the Door, Some Last Words on Finance

 BODY:
Taking stock is common at this time of year, but these five people, each from a different sphere of personal finance, have more reason than most to do so: They are leaving their jobs. Here, in interviews with Sharon R. King, are their parting shots on the achievements, failures and futures of their respective fields, as well as some practical advice for 1998.
 
MARGARET M. RICHARDSON left her post as Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service in May. She is now a partner at Ernst & Young.
Whenever major tax-law changes are enacted, the effect on investments is of interest. But there is little evidence that the 1997 changes have had a significant impact. The reduction of the capital-gains tax rate may have persuaded some investors to sell low-basis assets and reinvest in more attractive investments, but such proceeds do not seem to have moved out of the financial markets. 
 But because the gap between capital gains tax rates and ordinary rates was widened, investors who can realize returns as capital gains instead of as ordinary income will generally be better off. And since qualified plans and I.R.A.'s are not subject to current tax liability, assets which produce ordinary income and short-term capital gains are best allocated to these vehicles, as long as immediate access is not needed. The new Roth I.R.A. can yield tax-free rather than tax-deferred distributions, so a more aggressive investment strategy for such an I.R.A. might be appropriate.
 During my four years as Commissioner, the I.R.S. worked hard to make things easier for taxpayers -- the creation of a Web site, the expansion of electronic and telephone filing and of electronic payment. But people have never liked the tax collector, and the Congressional overseers keep changing their minds about what they want the service to do. There have been charges that the I.R.S. has been too aggressive, but they have boiled down to about four cases where the service violated its own procedures, although the impression was left that this was company policy.
 I think there will be more oversight in the future. That is good; we need to remind people they work for the taxpayer.
 
FRANK LALLI, managing editor of Money magazine for eight years, will become senior executive editor of Time Inc. in early January.
Personal-finance journalism has democratized finance in the United States by teaching ordinary people how to take advantage of things once available only to the rich. We have also encouraged investors to move into higher-return assets like stocks.
 But we often succumb to a horse-race mentality, and overstress performance in the recent past instead of encouraging people to stay focused on the long term. And we have never been able to educate new small investors adequately about risk. They therefore may not be fully prepared for the next devastating bear market -- whenever that comes.
 If the market's volatility continues, you'll see less emphasis on short-term performance because it's not going to be there. Common sense will come back into reporting and editing. Until then, you just keep hammering at the need for caution.
 
STEVEN M. H. WALLMAN, a Securities and Exchange commissioner for three years, resigned this fall to become a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.
The world no longer fits easily within our regulatory scheme. The cross-border raising of capital is pressuring our regulators to move toward international accounting standards, for example. Cross-border scams and frauds will demand greater communication, cooperation and coordination at the international regulatory level.
 And as financial services continue to converge here and elsewhere, the usual concept of regulating entities based on whether they are banks or securities firms or insurance companies is becoming antiquated. Britain and Australia are reorganizing their financial-sector regulation to reflect this. Eventually, we will have to do so also -- focusing not on the entity or product being regulated, but on systemic risk, investor protection, firm solvency and the like.
 Also, the on-line world is creating vast opportunities for new types of financial services. It allows for new types of scams, too, but the existing regulatory scheme frustrates the innovation. Regulators need to stop issuing detailed regulations that specify a particular mode of compliance and instead establish standards that market participants can comply with in a variety of ways
 
JOHN C. BOGLE has moved from chairman to senior chairman of the Vanguard Group, which is known for index funds, vehicles with low fees and low turnover.
 This industry must do a better job serving investors. Performance of the average mutual fund has lagged behind the S.& P. 500, primarily due to expenses. We have made staggering profits for the people who are running funds, but, since the industry began, expenses have risen 25 percent -- despite the huge economies of scale now in mutual funds.
 And portfolio turnover is too high. An average portfolio changes almost every year. I think that's the better part of insanity; it's also expensive for investors who are paying taxes. Costs matter. It's easy to forget about costs when your fund does well, but investors should be looking at that.
 In the rush to bring in 401(k) assets, funds are also ignoring investors' needs. Marketing brings in money, but it simply makes the funds bigger and bigger and puts them in a straightjacket because the number of significant investments you can make is limited by your size.
 
ROBERT E. DENHAM resigned as chairman and chief executive of Salomon Inc. in November, when the company completed its merger with Smith Barney. He has not decided what he will do next.
 Looking ahead to 1998, the caution light is on. We've had a fairly prolonged period in which the value of stocks has increased faster than the value of businesses. That does not go on forever. Investors should remember some of the old-fashioned virtues: Invest only in what you believe in, and remember that it's not the worst thing in the world to hold some cash.
 The biggest finance story of the decade is the spread of the American style of financial markets around the world. That suggests that the investment banking community has been doing something very right.
 It takes a real global scale to compete in these markets. I don't see any risk that consolidation will go so far as to reduce competition, but, as the industry operates globally, there will be a need for more regulatory coordination. Also, the experience in Asia points up the importance of improving banking regulations outside of the G-7 countries and the need for greater transparency in the financial condition of banks.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Margaret M. Richardson; Frank Lalli; Steven M. H. Wallman; John C. Bogle; Robert E. Denham

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE; MONEY (MAGAZINE); SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; VANGUARD GROUP OF INVESTMENT COS; SALOMON INC TIME INC (80%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (83%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (83%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE; MONEY (MAGAZINE); SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; VANGUARD GROUP OF INVESTMENT COS; SALOMON INC INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (83%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (83%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCES; STOCKS AND BONDS; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION TAXES & TAXATION (93%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (91%); TAX LAW (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); TAX CONSULTING (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); BONDS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); JOURNALISM (64%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R; RICHARDSON, MARGARET MILNER; LALLI, FRANK; WALLMAN, STEVEN M H; BOGLE, JOHN C; DENHAM, ROBERT E

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



637 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 14; Page 8; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: The 10 Biggest Little Stories of 1997;
Record Numbers On the Food Line

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
As news goes -- the big single events that chill spines, get the pulse racing and last for weeks -- it was not the busiest of years.
Not that the big news did not exist. There was Abner Louima and the awful brutality against him and the plight of the deaf Mexicans in horrific conditions in Queens. These stories seemed to capture deeper urban truths. But the mayoral election, part political funeral, part coronation, was largely a dud, devoid of the kind of psychological venting a mayoral race can provide. Even the shooting rampage atop the Empire State Building, with its potential for intense symbolism, was a tribute to one individual's madness, providing little illumination, and it passed from notice quickly. 
 Crime continued to drop; tourists continued to come; a Metropolitan Transportation Authority surplus led to new fare structures. But to understand the year it might be better to look at the city as it unfolded day to day, beyond the biggest headlines -- its tiny dramas; its newest playthings; the neighborhoods that grew; the great desire for order that seemed to grip many neighborhoods; the degree of commercial vitality.
So instead of the biggest stories of 1997, we examine the biggest little ones.
AS the stock market was reaching new highs, the Brooklyn offices of Catholic Charities were witnessing records of their own: the numbers of people seeking food assistance.
In the fall, employees at food pantries in Sheepshead Bay and Brooklyn Heights reported that requests had doubled over the previous year. Citywide, the story was the same (although the percentage increases were lower). The rise in need prompted the city to agree in November to provide an extra $2 million to restock pantries.
Exactly why requests were increasing was unclear. The cutoff of food stamps to some 50,000 legal immigrants prompted more demand for emergency aid, but the increases largely predated that cutoff. The people coming in were not welfare mothers being forced off the rolls but the working poor, unable to cover rent and buy food on minimum-wage jobs.
The same sense of mystery swirled around the beginnings of welfare reform. The numbers of people receiving public assistance continued to drop, but it was unclear where they were going. Some, certainly, swelled the ranks of workfare program; some may have found jobs, as unemployment dropped, to 8.1 percent, over the past six months. Others may have simply done with less. Merchants in areas where people depend heavily on welfare complained of less ready cash, particularly for luxury items.
That more people were working, or anticipating work, was suggested by the length of the waiting lists at child care centers like Nuestros Ninos, in Williamsburg, where 1,000 children are awaiting slots and 600 are enrolled.
But there were no certainties about how people were getting by as government's new hard line became reality. Certainly, as conversations in housing projects and food pantries suggested, many poor people remained heavily dependent on government benefits.
The affordable-housing market continued to tighten, as deaf Mexicans and countless others living in illegal, and sometimes dangerous, sublets, demonstrated. Cuts in housing funds at the Federal, state and local levels have pushed more people into shelters, and have made it harder to get out.
But the talk among families waiting for frozen turkey and toys at the St. John's Bread and Life food pantry in Bedford-Stuyvesant on Tuesday was not of seismic shifts wrought by policy changes, although some did speak of cuts in benefits and baffling new rules. Instead, they spoke of enduring struggles: no jobs, or jobs too skimpy to make ends meet and still buy a child a Christmas basketball. They described scrabbling together help from family, church, charity and government to survive.
"Nobody is rich," said a woman at St. John's, summing up her neighborhood's economic situation. "Because if we were rich, we wouldn't be sitting here." AMY WALDMAN

GRAPHIC: Photo: SO MANY CHILDREN, SO FEW SLOTS With more people working or knowing they would have no alternative but to find work soon, waiting lists at child care centers grew. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-SEVEN FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (87%); FOOD CHARITIES (87%); CITY LIFE (76%); MAYORS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (70%); CHARITIES (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (68%); CHILDREN (67%); LUXURY GOODS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); MINIMUM WAGE (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%); CHILD CARE (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (51%); RELIGION (51%); 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



638 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 14; Page 9; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: The 10 Biggest Little Stories of 1997;
Carry Nation, New York City

BYLINE: By JESSE MCKINLEY 

 BODY:
As news goes -- the big single events that chill spines, get the pulse racing and last for weeks -- it was not the busiest of years.
Not that the big news did not exist. There was Abner Louima and the awful brutality against him and the plight of the deaf Mexicans in horrific conditions in Queens. These stories seemed to capture deeper urban truths. But the mayoral election, part political funeral, part coronation, was largely a dud, devoid of the kind of psychological venting a mayoral race can provide. Even the shooting rampage atop the Empire State Building, with its potential for intense symbolism, was a tribute to one individual's madness, providing little illumination, and it passed from notice quickly. 
 Crime continued to drop; tourists continued to come; a Metropolitan Transportation Authority surplus led to new fare structures. But to understand the year it might be better to look at the city as it unfolded day to day, beyond the biggest headlines -- its tiny dramas; its newest playthings; the neighborhoods that grew; the great desire for order that seemed to grip many neighborhoods; the degree of commercial vitality.
So instead of the biggest stories of 1997, we examine the biggest little ones.
A YEAR ago, Alan Whelan, a veteran bar owner, had three establishments up and running in Greenwich Village, a mini-fiefdom partly supported by drunken fraternity boys, New Jersey adventurer-seekers and refugees from the Lion's Head, the legendary Christopher Street pub, which closed.
Today, Mr. Whelan is down to one bar, the Lion's Den, on Sullivan Street. In early August, he closed his Red Lion, on Bleecker Street, after he said he grew tired of fighting about zoning restrictions and noise complaints. Three weeks later, his upscale bistro, Peter's Backyard, on 10th Street, was closed by a Federal bankruptcy judge because of mounting debt arising from a lack of business and from legal fees paid to fight a block association over a proposed backyard dining area.
Sometimes it seems as if the spirit of Carry Nation were sweeping New York. Mr. Whelan's situation has become increasingly common for night life entrepreneurs as citizens' groups, local and state authorities and new legislation have been cracking down on what some consider an overload of bothersome bars. All this has come at a time when the city's economy has primed people to party.
In Washington Heights, this month Joseph Lechle found Community Board 12 strongly opposed to his plan to open a club at West 157th Street and Broadway despite his 40-year career of running bars in the area. In the same neighborhood, three Hispanic-owned dining spots were recently fined and temporarily closed by inspectors, who cited a law that bars more than three people from dancing in establishments that are not licensed as cabarets.
Similar problems beset Greenwich Village's venerable Stonewall Inn, at 53 Sheridan Square, the birthplace of the gay rights movement. The bar's owner, Dominic DeSimone, said he was in financial straits because of enforcement of the dancing ban, which followed run-ins with the neighbors complaining about noise. In Chelsea, a popular gay bar, the Rome Bar, at Eighth Avenue and 25th Street, was threatened with losing its liquor license because of community complaints to the State Liquor Authority about noise and underage drinking. And the China Club was forced to move from the Upper West Side to near Times Square.
In October, three councilmen introduced a zoning measure that would prohibit the conversion of small retail spaces on residential streets into new bars. The Council is expected to consider it in 1998.
Things got so bad for rock clubs that they were forced into an un-rock-and-roll maneuver: organization. The New York Nightlife Association, consisting of about 50 establishments, was founded in late 1996 to fight for their customers' right to party. It didn't help much. The Council passed a number of stiff new antinoise penalties in October.
Still, there has been plenty of merrymaking. The East Village continued its metamorphosis from countercultural hot spot to alcoholic theme park, with new bars seemingly opening wherever entrepreneurs could put a beer tap and moldy couches.
Even there, neighborhood advocates have begun to rein things in. In two separate votes, Community Board 3 approved moratoriums on new liquor licenses on Avenue A and on Ludlow Street, two bar-laden streets.
Some establishments are fighting back. Limelight, a dance club at West 20th Street and Avenue of the Americas, was closed last year after its owner, Peter Gatien, was arrested on Federal drug charges. It looks as if it will reopen next year. But community members have said they will fight it. JESSE MCKINLEY

GRAPHIC: Photo: GOOD NEIGHBOR POLICY Seeking local support, some clubs posted codes of conduct. (Rob Schoenbaum for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: BARS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-SEVEN; NOISE; NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (76%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); ZONING (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); JUDGES (71%); NOISE POLLUTION (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); REFUGEES (51%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JESSE PETER GATIEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



639 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 14; Page 9; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: The 10 Biggest Little Stories of 1997;
The Showdown At Brooklyn Junction

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
As news goes -- the big single events that chill spines, get the pulse racing and last for weeks -- it was not the busiest of years.
Not that the big news did not exist. There was Abner Louima and the awful brutality against him and the plight of the deaf Mexicans in horrific conditions in Queens. These stories seemed to capture deeper urban truths. But the mayoral election, part political funeral, part coronation, was largely a dud, devoid of the kind of psychological venting a mayoral race can provide. Even the shooting rampage atop the Empire State Building, with its potential for intense symbolism, was a tribute to one individual's madness, providing little illumination, and it passed from notice quickly. 
 Crime continued to drop; tourists continued to come; a Metropolitan Transportation Authority surplus led to new fare structures. But to understand the year it might be better to look at the city as it unfolded day to day, beyond the biggest headlines -- its tiny dramas; its newest playthings; the neighborhoods that grew; the great desire for order that seemed to grip many neighborhoods; the degree of commercial vitality.
So instead of the biggest stories of 1997, we examine the biggest little ones.
CALL it citizens standing up to the joined forces of money and power. Or call it a middle-class Brooklyn neighborhood screaming, "Not in My Backyard." But certainly call it bitter.
The battle over whether to build a 500,000-square-foot mall, with space for 2,000 cars, between Eighth and 14th Avenues at 61st and 62d Street pitted the developer Charles Katz against residents of Bay Ridge and Dyker Heights. They said the mall would clot streets with cars and make the air thick with pollution. After a year of organizing, opponents of the mall, a project tentatively called Brooklyn Junction, appeared to have scored a victory when the Mayor and Gov. George E. Pataki announced their opposition shortly before the November election.
Whether suburban-style shopping -- megamalls, superstores -- should come into the city continued to be a hotly debated issue this year, with residents, developers and politicians in the fray. The larger question masked by zoning fights was whether giant, uniform chains should be allowed to pave over a city known for neighborhood character. And the fights were about process, too: Could ordinary citizens influence how their backyards took shape?
A proposed super-shopping center and multiscreen movie theater became the bete noire of Forest Hills, Queens. The Mayor, his appetite for economic development possibly balanced by his hunger for re-election, made his opposition to the movie theater known, effectively killing it and at least partly appeasing residents. The rest of the development will proceed.
The coming year, however, promises to bring renewed conflicts, large and small, over the shape new urban retail developments should take. Under the leadership of the Speaker, Peter Vallone, the City Council is formulating a rezoning plan to make it easier for "big box" stores in the city (the Mayor's rezoning proposal was rejected in 1996). Under the Speaker's plan, community boards would pre-select sites for superstores, allowing them to bypass community review. Expect a fight from neighborhood advocates who oppose any reduction in such review.
Charles Katz, too, will be back. He plans to continue with plans for Brooklyn Junction, possibly in scaled-down form. This time he may have community support. Jeffrey Reznick, who made a failed run for Councilman Anthony Weiner's seat in the Democratic primary, has organized the Community Improvement Council to support the project. He and his supporters said they had collected 4,000 signatures in support of the mall, and asked for a meeting with Joseph B. Rose, the City Planning Commissioner.
Mr. Rose was booed at the meeting by some mall proponents who are residents of Borough Park, where Mr. Katz also has his business. And the president of the Brooklyn Chinese-American Association, Paul Mak, said many Chinese-Americans living in Sunset Park believed the economic benefits of the mall could outweigh the negative impact on quality of life. "It's going to be a pitched battle," said Carmel Lopez, whose Residents and Business Coalition has led opposition to the mall. AMY WALDMAN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-SEVEN ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RETAILERS (87%); RETAIL PROPERTY (86%); CITY LIFE (76%); ZONING (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); SUBURBS (67%); 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



640 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

HEADLINE: The 10 Biggest Little Stories of 1997

GRAPHIC: Photos: ICELANDIC ARTISTS IN BROOKLYN Conde Nast's James Truman caused a storm by declaring "Downtown is Dead." But has edge just moved closer across the river? (Linda Rosier for The New York Times); THOMAS HUANG'S HOT SEAT A court case involving a Taiwanese developer in Flushing crystallized New York's financial links in the world; so did economic convulsions in Korea. (James Rexroad for The New York Times); THE $3,010 TUXEDO There was a waiting list for this much-coveted item at Hermes. Displays of wealth were more seasoned than in the go-go 80's but excess was in no short supply. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); THE FACES OF TIEMANN PLACE Residents, under the lights of a Fiona Apple video crew, asked if they controlled their own images -- an issue for the late '90's, when New York imagery is in demand. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times); THE BARRICADING OF 163D STREET Hungering for safety, people applauded the police barricades placed on their block in Washington Heights. But in that same area, many complaints about the police were heard. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times); THE FALL OF ALAN WHELAN The West Village bar owner's empire, under fire from community groups, collapsed as clamps were put on bars throughout the city. (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times); MOTORCYCLE NOISE SETS OFF CAR ALARMS A quality-of-life catclysm! It was one of the issues that emerged as the city struggled to control its hectic street life. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times); IN NEED OF FOOD Catholic Charities' Brooklyn office reported a record number of requests for food assistance. Were the poor under increasing pressure? (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); THE GREAT MEGAMALL FIGHT A ferocious battle in Bay Ridge kept a huge retail project from being approved (for now), the latest chapter in the debate over How We Shop. (William Lopez for The New York Times); THE SMALL-SCHOOL REVOLT A Board of Education memo proposing to rein in small, alternative schools set off a furor, showing how deeply entrenched the schools have become. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)

 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (59%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-SEVEN CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



641 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Report Undercuts Proposal To Import More Farm Labor

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
The General Accounting Office has thrown water on a legislative effort, pushed by the nation's agricultural employers, to allow entry of more foreign farm workers by concluding in a new report that there is "no national agricultural labor shortage at this time."
Several leading farm industry associations have been pressing to expand the number of temporary work visas for the so-called guest workers, arguing that some regions already face labor shortages, which are bound to increase as immigration officials step up efforts to keep out -- and send back -- illegal aliens. 
 Farm worker advocates are fighting the proposed legislation, asserting that increasing the number of such guest workers will undercut the wages of field laborers nationwide and weaken efforts to unionize them.
Congress asked the G.A.O. to study whether there was a farm labor shortage after Republicans lawmakers asserted that the current law requires farmers to surmount too many bureaucratic hurdles to win permission to import foreign workers, and introduced legislation to liberalize the guest-worker program.
In a draft of the G.A.O. report made available to The New York Times by an opponent of the proposed legislation, the agency essentially backed the assertions of the United Farm Workers Union and other farm worker advocates who insisted that there was no national labor shortage.
"A sudden widespread farm labor shortage requiring the importation of large numbers of foreign workers is unlikely to occur in the near future," the draft report said, though it acknowledged that localized shortages might exist for specific crops or geographical areas.
Rejecting another argument made by farmers and ranchers, the report added that enforcement efforts by the Immigration and Naturalization Service were not expected "to significantly reduce the aggregate supply of farm workers." Farmers and ranchers fear that the new immigration restrictions may work too well, cutting them off from a large part of their labor supply.
The G.A.O.'s final report is scheduled to be made public on Wednesday. Agency officials said they might revise the 108-page draft before issuing the final report.
Under the current farm guest-worker program, known as H-2A, farm employers brought in 15,000 foreign workers last year, a small portion of the estimated labor force of 2 million farm workers, about 40 percent of whom are illegal aliens.
The guest workers typically work for two or three months on jobs ranging from sheep herding to apple picking. The bill proposed by Senator Gordon Smith, an Oregon Republican, would allow 25,000 more guest workers each year.
Under current law, farmers who want to bring in guest workers must ask the United States Department of Labor to certify that no labor surplus exists in the farmer's region. In addition, the farmer must make efforts to hire workers already in the United States and must wait for the state job service to look for workers. Senator Smith's proposal would eliminate these requirements, making it far easier to import such workers. The Smith bill, like the current law, would require farmers to pay guest workers the prevailing wage received by farm workers.
"We are facing a crisis in agriculture -- a crisis born of an inadequate labor supply, bureaucratic red tape and burdensome regulation," Mr. Smith said last month in introducing the legislation.
Bob L. Vice, former president of the California Farm Bureau Federation, told Congress in September about an Orange County vegetable farmer who lost most of his workers when immigration officials apprehended them as illegal aliens. Mr. Vice said the farmer lost 60 acres of beans and 20 acres of cabbage because the local job service referred only three workers even though he had asked for 150.
But Dolores Huerta, secretary-treasurer of the United Farm Workers, strongly denied that shortages existed. "There's definitely a surplus of farm workers," she said in a telephone interview. "That explains why there has been a drop in farm-worker wages over the last 10 to 15 years. They have dropped wages substantially because they always know there's a large pool of workers they can get."
As evidence that there is no shortage of farm labor, the G.A.O. said that of the 20 large agricultural counties around the nation that it surveyed last summer, 11 had unemployment rates more than twice the national average of 5 percent, and 15 had jobless rates 2 percentage points higher than the national rate.
The agency also noted that after accounting for inflation, the average hourly wage of farm workers fell by 17 percent from 1989 to 1995. That, the agency said, pointed to a labor surplus, rather than shortage.
And in a recent nine-month period, the agency noted, the Labor Department approved 99 percent of farmers' applications for guest workers, undercutting their assertions of a shortage.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (93%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (93%); UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (93%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (93%); UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; SHORTAGES; LABOR; FOREIGN LABOR; UNIONIZATION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES FARM LABOR (96%); FOREIGN LABOR (93%); LABOR SHORTAGES (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); REFUGEES (71%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN GORDON SMITH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



642 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1709 words

HEADLINE: Fitting Managed Care Into Emergency Rooms

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Mo.

 BODY:
"A kid playing soccer fell and broke his arm," said Dr. Michael Weaver, beginning the sort of anecdote that emergency room doctors routinely reel off. "His mom scoops him up and rushes him here, the nearest hospital. I start an IV to give him pain medication. Then mom runs in and says, 'Stop!'
 "She's called her insurance company," said Dr. Weaver, 44, chief emergency physician for the St. Luke's-Shawnee Mission group of hospitals here. "They tell her to take him to a hospital four miles away. Mom's in tears. The kid's in tears. We give him oral pain medication, an ice bag and a splint. Then Mom drives him to the next hospital. 
 "And for what?"
The rest of the treatment, including a cast, might have cost $300 or $400. What, Dr. Weaver asked, were the costs of the insurance intermediary who stopped the treatment and of cranking up another emergency room to treat the boy? What was the cost of the mother's anguish, gasoline and time lost from work?
"Are we just shifting money around in different pots?" Dr. Weaver asked.
With the onset of managed care, episodes like this one are increasingly common for the nation's 4,900 hospital emergency departments and the patients who turn to them 100 million times a year, according to the American College of Emergency Physicians. Partly as a result of the harsh new economics of the health system, the nation has lost 400 emergency departments in five years, mostly in inner cities and rural communities.
Managed care has intruded in a variety of ways: in determining where people get emergency care, how much treatment they get, what services hospitals provide and how it is all paid for.
A look at St. Luke's state-of-the-art department shows a hospital coping with this new environment, caught between its mission to serve patients and the shrinking resources to meet those needs as managed care seeks to control costs.
In some ways, this 24-hour-a-day pocket of the health system's safety net remains a refuge from the turbulence in medicine. Crisis and pain, not wealth or an insurance plan, still open the door. Under a Federal law that threatens fines of up to $50,000, emergency departments must see all comers, screen them, take a medical history and stabilize their wounds and infirmities.
Yet the laws that mandate care for all comers say nothing about who pays for the care, particularly for the nation's 41 million uninsured. Once, hospitals covered their emergency care costs by using profits from hospital services for customers with insurance. Under managed care, though, insurance companies have squeezed their payments to hospitals to the point where there is little, if any, excess to cover nonpaying patients.
Dr. Robert Bonness, a St. Luke's emergency physician, said doctors' fees for evaluation and treatment in the emergency room run from $60 to $120. "We're collecting 52 percent of what we charge" from insurers, he said. A decade ago, he said, he collected 75 percent.
These pressures have pushed emergency departments themselves to adopt the cost-cutting disciplines of managed care, some for the better, physicians and patients say, and some for the worse.
Fast, efficient, low-cost care is often better care, they have found. A quick CT scan that a St. Luke's patient can get right inside the department, a quick diagnosis of a stroke and quick intervention to break the clot raises the odds that the patient will go back to work, saving him and his insurer the $30,000-a-year cost of a nursing home.
But tight control of costs and services can work the other way, too. Under managed care, patients have lost their prerogatives as customers, the freedom to seek the help they and their physicians deem best. Managed care organizations that pay for the service now make those decisions.
The results, patients and doctors say, are often hassles and disruptions of care. Except for the uninsured, patients carry cards with their health plans' numbers because often they need permission before dialing 911 and going to an emergency room. Those who forget or who are too frightened or too rushed to call can be denied coverage.
Then, even after approving an emergency room visit, plans sometimes refuse payment if the doctor's eventual diagnosis -- indigestion as the cause of chest pains, for example, and not a heart attack -- reveals a benign condition.
Like patients, doctors need permission. They need approval to treat patients after stabilizing them -- to admit them to the intensive care unit, for example, or the heart, stroke or pediatric units.
"Before," Dr. Weaver said, "if I felt a patient needed to be admitted from the emergency room to the hospital, we admitted him. Now I have to call someone peripheral to the relationship who reviews my data and agrees or doesn't agree.
"Sometimes, the person you call is another doctor, and that's ideal," Dr. Weaver said. "The majority of times you get no doctor at all, sometimes not even a nurse."
Here and there, in response to a political backlash against managed care, government is intervening. Fifteen states, including Missouri, New York and Connecticut, require that a health plan that covers emergency care provide it wherever and whenever a "prudent layperson" would deem it necessary. This year's Federal balanced budget agreement grants the same protections to Medicare and Medicaid recipients.
But the laws still leave most Americans unprotected, including many in states that have enacted the prudent layperson standard. The College of Emergency Physicians says half the work force is employed by companies, mostly the largest, that self-insure and that are exempt from state regulations. They pay their share of employee health care from their own funds rather than turning to an insurance company.
The St. Luke's emergency department throbs with the erratic rhythms of the flow and needs of patients. Monitors hanging from the nurses' station ceiling trace the pulses of patients in the 18 observation rooms and 2 trauma rooms. Each bed is a narrow, motorized mattress on wheels. Each room's walls are stacked with instruments and supplies, like a high-tech auto service shop. The influence of managed care is pervasive.
"We look at our staffing, our supplies and equipment, our lab work," said Betty Moon, director of emergency services for the St. Luke's-Shawnee Mission. "There are all sorts of ways we can be leaner and yet provide quality care."
Ms. Moon has completely reorganized the staffs of the group's four emergency departments. Until a year ago, 100 nurses, paid around $20,000 a year, provided all patient care. Now patient care technicians, hired after eight weeks of training and paid half as much, have replaced 20 nurses.
Because the technicians specialize in services like bathing patients, preparing their wounds for dressing, hooking up monitoring devices, drawing blood and teaching patients to use crutches, they perform their tasks better and more quickly than nurses, who now concentrate on higher levels of care, Ms. Moon said.
For all emergency rooms, a chronic cause of expense stems from being open to all comers. Emergency rooms receive uninsured patients who turn to them for all their care, and the homeless and lonely. While saying they have coughs or chest pains, many patients really just want a blanket or a meal.
So a year ago, St. Luke's hired two emergency department social workers. Those people counsel the homeless and scour the community for services they actually need and steer them out of the emergency room.
In this climate of managed care, it is the struggle for access to emergency care and getting someone to pay for it that is often most trying for patients and physicians.
Looking lost and lethargic at St. Luke's, clearly on the edge of a coma, Scott Downum, 17, a high school senior and cheerleader, was pushed to Observation Room B in a wheelchair. A team of doctors, medical students, nurses and aides swarmed in. He, too, was threaded with tubes and monitoring devices and an IV to start an insulin drip.
Dr. Darren Alexander, a first-year resident, rubbed his palms together to warm them before examining the boy. Dr. Alexander said the boy's blood sugar level of 740 was perilously high and his blood gas reading of 7.07 perilously low, both signs that Scott was at the edge of a coma and death.
Gloria Zamora, Scott's mother, sat at the side of his bed as she would for six hours, marking improvements in his readings on an index card. She said she had always been able to get him into emergency rooms and that this was probably the 25th time she had raced him to one since he was first diagnosed with diabetes at 4.
At that time, insurance plans started picking and choosing among whom they would cover. Scott has been covered just three years, one as a child and then the last two. Often, she said, she could not get him coverage at all because of his condition.
"When it was available," Ms. Zamora said, "it was $300 to $500 a month," far beyond what she could afford as a clerical worker. Yet she was too well off to qualify for Medicaid, the state-Federal insurance program for the indigent.
Her hopes rose three years ago when she became an administrative assistant at a museum. For $150 a month she enrolled in the museum's managed care plan. But to include Scott in her coverage, she was required to wait a year. Now, as long as she stays with the museum and the premiums stay within her means, his care is assured.
Upon spotting the approach of another crisis before this visit, Ms. Zamora called Scott's health plan physician. "He said, 'Go immediately to the emergency room,' " she said.
Then, once she saw her son settled in the emergency room, she called the insurance company.
"They took my information and wanted to know the diagnosis and if he would be admitted," she said. She suspected the doctors would later want to move him to the intensive care unit, as indeed they did.
"They gave me a referral number," Ms. Zamora said. "It was a smooth procedure."
For the moment, Ms. Zamora was relieved. But managed care has taken a toll on both her finances and those of the emergency rooms that have rescued her son. "I owe them at least $70,000," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Michael Weaver, the chief emergency room doctor at the St. Luke's-Shawnee Mission hospitals in Kansas City, Mo., treating a patient brought to his hospital because medical technicians felt the woman, suffering from respiratory distress, would not survive the ride to the hospital specified by her H.M.O. (V. Craig Sands for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (90%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (89%); 

COMPANY: ST LUKE'S-SHAWNEE HOSPITAL (KANSAS CITY, MO) MISSION GROUP (57%); AMERICAN COLLEGE OF EMERGENCY PHYSICIANS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST LUKE'S-SHAWNEE HOSPITAL (KANSAS CITY, MO) AMERICAN COLLEGE OF EMERGENCY PHYSICIANS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; EMERGENCY MEDICAL TREATMENT; HOSPITALS; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; HEALTH INSURANCE EMERGENCY ROOMS (93%); HOSPITALS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); BONE FRACTURES (78%); SOCCER (73%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (71%); CITY LIFE (64%); CITIES (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T MICHAEL DWAYNE 'MIKE' WEAVER (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



643 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: A. J. Jaffe, 85, A Labor Expert At Columbia U.

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Abram J. Jaffe, a social scientist and labor expert at Columbia University who studied the economic conditions of migrants, working women and retirees, died on Monday at a nursing home in Englewood, N.J. He was 85 and lived in Leonia, N.J.
The cause was heart failure after a long illness, his family said. 
 A. J. Jaffe, as his seven books identified him, worked as a statistician, employment expert and anthropologist. He directed the Manpower and Population Program of Columbia's Bureau of Applied Research for 26 years. He retired in 1979 but continued as a senior research associate in business and anthropology.
At age 80, with W. C. Sperber, he published the results of a lifelong interest in early human migrations, "The First Immigrants From Asia: A Population History of the North American Indians" (Plenum, 1992). Also in print is his "Handbook of Statistical Methods for Demographers" (1977). With Herbert F. Spirer, he wrote "Misused Statistics: Straight Talk for Twisted Numbers" (1986). It told general readers and journalists how to find the facts hidden in statistics presented by advocates of various causes.
Dr. Jaffe was born in Chelsea, Mass. He received his bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees in sociology from the University of Chicago. In the 1940's, he surveyed troop morale for the War Department and taught foreign nationals at the Census Bureau how to apply its methods in their own countries.
He joined the Columbia faculty in 1950, where he produced reports on such diverse matters as productivity, employment patterns of college graduates and the absorption of Hispanic-American migrants.
He was a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and for many years edited The New York Statistician, published by the state chapter of the American Statistical Association.
Dr. Jaffe is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Betty Gomberg; two daughters, Anne Jaffe and Barbara Rios, both of Manhattan, and two grandsons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (53%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (91%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); MIGRANT WORKERS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (89%); WOMEN (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLISHING (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); WRITERS (76%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); HEART DISEASE (72%); CENSUS (71%); NATIVE AMERICANS (68%); 

PERSON: JAFFE, ABRAM J; SAXON, WOLFGANG

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



644 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3053 words

HEADLINE: ALL IN ONE: A special report.;
Where All Doors Are Open for Disabled Students

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN 

DATELINE: WOODSTOCK, Vt.

 BODY:
One classmate had to speak his lines for him and another had to push his wheelchair into place on stage. But it was still an achievement when Jeron Fox appeared as the ghost this fall in the four performances of "Hamlet" at the high school.
Jeron, a 17-year-old with cerebral palsy, has a luminous smile, a quick sense of humor and no control over the drool dribbling down his chin as he and an instructional aide prepare for a world history test on Alexander the Great. 
 Jeron cannot talk or read well. He communicates mostly by pointing to a book of drawings that show the important people, classes, foods and feelings in his life. For formal pronouncements, the laptop computer in his wheelchair tray can use voices.
Nationally, most students like Jeron are educated in separate classrooms or separate schools, as are those with mental retardation, autism or emotional disturbances, and many of those in the far larger group of children with less pervasive problems like dyslexia or other specific learning disabilities.
But Jeron is very much part of Woodstock Union High School, where he attends some regular classes, spends some periods in one-on-one tutoring and, with his best friend, who has Down syndrome, serves as "12th man" for the football team, cheering from the bench.
As the debate over how and where to educate the nation's six million children with disabilities has become increasingly polarized -- and litigious -- Vermont is singular in its commitment to integrating severely disabled students into regular classrooms, keeping almost 9 out of 10 in regular classes for most of the day.
And unlike most states, Vermont has always kept students with learning disabilities, who make up nearly half the state's 11,000 children with disabilities, in regular classes.
Although Vermont's record is unlikely to be matched anytime soon, most states, in response to prodding from the Federal Government and recent amendments to the Federal disability law, are also moving toward greater integration.
In Vermont, where the rugged terrain has helped produce a strong tradition of local control, experiments with integration -- the latest term for what is also called mainstreaming or inclusion -- began in a few districts in the early 1980's. But they did not take off statewide until 1989, when the state changed its school financing formulas to remove financial incentives for keeping children in segregated placements, giving districts just as much money to provide services in a child's home school.
Since 1975, the Federal Individuals With Disabilities in Education Act has guaranteed children with disabilities the right to free and appropriate educations in the least restrictive environment. Under amendments this year, all states have to adopt financing plans that, as with Vermont's, offer no financial incentive to place disabled children outside their home schools.
Special education costs $30 billion a year in Federal, state and local money, and it accounts for 19 percent of all money spent on schools, up from 17.8 percent in 1991, according to a study of nine representative districts by the Economic Policy Institute in Washington, a nonpartisan research group.
There are huge differences from state to state on the placement of children with disabilities, who make up 11 percent of the school population. Where such children are best taught is a complicated question with pedagogical, ethical and financial overtones.
The number of children who have diagnoses of disabilities, and especially learning disabilities, has been steadily increasing. That has led some educators to contend that disabilities are vastly overdiagnosed and that special education is too often used as a catchall for poor minority-group students whose difficulties may stem from poor teaching methods, behavior problems or difficult family environments, and not disabilities.
In many states, most students with disabilities go to separate schools, separate classrooms for children with a particular disability or "resource rooms," where special-education teachers work with them individually for parts of the day.
There are classrooms for the retarded, the autistic, the deaf, the emotionally disturbed -- and hundreds and hundreds of classes for children with learning disabilities, who are painfully slow to learn reading or mathematics skills.
Many educators and parents believe that segregating children with disabilities is bad, both educationally and morally. They say such a policy undermines the development of both disabled children, by failing to give them a chance to develop the skills and relationships that they will need as adults, and other children, by preventing beneficial contact with the full range of people in their communities.
"Every child is part of a community, and public schools should serve all the children in the community," said Richard Schattman, a principal in Swanton whose office wall has a political button that says, "Release the Hostages: Full Inclusion."
"It's the right thing to do."
 
The Two Sides
Inclusion Vs. Exclusion
The Federal official in charge of enforcing the disability law, Judith E. Heumann, has her reasons for believing in integration.
"I use a motorized wheelchair, I can't lift my arms, and I can't go to the bathroom by myself," said Ms. Heumann, Assistant Education Secretary for the Office of Special Education and Rehabilitation Services. "When I was a kid in Brooklyn and my mother wheeled me over to the neighborhood school for kindergarten, they said I couldn't come there, I was a fire hazard. I was sent away to another school."
These days, Ms. Heumann tries to convince parents that integration has benefits.
"Education is academic, but it's also social, learning how to live in a community, learning about differences," she said. "I tell parents who are afraid to send a child with disabilities into a regular setting that overprotection does no service when that disabled child becomes an adult. If your child was out of sight, out of mind, that doesn't change. People who might have become their friends in school won't know them."
Academically, too, she said, all children can benefit from inclusion.
"The methods that teachers learn from working with the disabled, and individualizing instruction, are useful with other students, as well," Ms. Heumann said. "In a way, you can see every child as having special needs. So the ideal is a system in which every child gets an individualized education."
But many educators and parents say separate classes can better meet the needs of those with disabilities -- and of the other children whose educations may be disrupted.
"Even if most kids can be fully included, there has to be an option to pull out a student for some one-on-one instruction," said Nancy Safer, executive director of the Council for Exceptional Children. "We'll always need the full continuum of services."
Inclusion is a particular challenge in big urban systems like New York City's, where a huge special-education program has more than 100,000 children, disproportionately minority members. Last year, the Schools Chancellor, Rudy Crew, announced plans to overhaul the system, with an eye to moving thousands of pupils to regular classrooms that would then have extra teachers.
But simply moving children into regular classrooms does not guarantee integration.
"A student can be more isolated and segregated in a normal classroom than in special education," Mr. Schattman said. "Inclusion isn't about placing the kid. It's about making the placement successful both for the kid and for the rest of the class. And it's not easy. You need small classes, lots of planning time and staff that believes in it."
Some special-education experts worry that the inclusion movement may lead to dumping children with special needs into classes where they will be ignored or taunted, and eliminating the special services and support that they receive in settings intended just for them.
"It has not been demonstrated that regular classrooms, even fortified regular classrooms using the best practices, can accommodate all children all the time," said Douglas Fuchs, a professor of special education at Vanderbilt University. "The full inclusionists honestly believe that creating a situation in which teachers individualize instruction for each student is a terrific goal we should all dedicate our lives to. So we should kick away the crutch of special education. But that's a high-stakes game, and I'm not sure it's realistic."
Nor are all parents and advocates for children with disabilities convinced that it is the correct goal.
"With severe retardation," Mr. Fuchs said, "the goal is usually to have the child accepted and treated well in the community, social goals that can be met in a classroom where the teacher and other children interact with them and show some tenderness. It's more complex for children with learning disabilities, for whom the academic goals are more ambitious. Since there are no studies showing that being in a regular classroom improves their performance, most parents and advocates feel that time doing special drills in a resource room or a separate class is O.K., if that will better help the child learn."
By all accounts, the most difficult children to integrate are those in the growing category of emotional disabilities, children who may be disruptive, abusive, sexually aggressive or violent.
Even in Vermont, an increasing number of emotionally disabled children are being placed in separate settings.
 
The Problems
Balances, Social And Financial
For families and schools alike, placement involves a complicated calculus, balancing academic and social needs.
Jeron's mother, Bethany Fox, raves about the support and attention her son received from the school system. She said she stayed in Vermont, even though other states offered better work opportunities, because she did not believe that anywhere else would do as well for Jeron. But even she occasionally wonders whether a special school like the one that he attended for two years before Woodstock became so inclusive would be better.
"Sometimes I still think it might be a good thing," she said. "But I know they're pulling for him here, and they think he belongs here."
Vermont's commitment to inclusion came in part from the Education Commissioner, Marc Hull, a former minister who was the state's Special Education Director in the 1980's. Mr. Hull worked with school districts that wanted to become more inclusive and helped convince the Legislature that a financing formula that did not pay more to place the disabled outside regular classrooms would not only enrich lives and fit the tradition of local control, but would also help control runaway costs of special education.
But costs have continued to rise, as special-education money followed the children to regular classes. In the early 1970's, the state spent 85 percent of its $3.6 million annual budget for disabled students on separate classes and separate schools, including $100,000-a-year-per-pupil residential schools like the one that Jeron had attended.
But these days, 85 percent of the special-education budget, now at $110 million, is spent on extra teachers, aides, therapists and services in regular schools.
Some Vermont officials worry that the leadership on inclusion may become a mixed blessing.
"If you get people with serious disabilities moving in for the services they can get, it's like Mexicans coming across the border," said a Vermont education official who insisted on anonymity. "On one hand you're happy that they're going to get a better quality of life. On the other you worry that at some point, if you get too many, it will break the bank and change the nature of what you have."
 
A Town's Reaction
Fears and Strains Are Confronted
Families in Woodstock, a tiny picture-postcard town where tourists flock to admire the fall foliage, know one another pretty well. So it was no secret among the parents of preschoolers that the group starting kindergarten this fall posed unusual challenges. The 30 children would include autistic twins, a child who has been developmentally delayed in the aftermath of leukemia, two with speech and language problems and another, not yet fully evaluated, who shows autistic characteristics.
Some parents worried about how their children would fare, especially with Joe and Eddie Lawlor, the autistic twins whom they had seen around town with their mother, Lisa. To allay those fears, the school invited all the incoming kindergarten parents to a meeting, introduced the special-education staff and talked about plans for the year.
"We'd heard whispers in the wind and we were real concerned, and Lisa was concerned about how her kids would be received," said the principal, Mark Genovesi. "We were hopeful that if we took the offensive we would take the wind out of their sails. We explained that inclusion means all kids get what they need, not just disabled kids, and this wasn't going to affect the quality of education. And it's worked. To date no one's come and beat down the door to complain."
Officials have been working with the Lawlor boys since they were 2. The first goal was to have them sit in a chair for 20 seconds, an effort that took four months. Making eye contact was even harder. So it has gone, task by painful task.
Each boy was assigned an individual aide. For a year, the aides made an unused room in the Lawlor house into the "schoolroom," where the boys learned about sitting for circle time and putting away toys.
The special teaching does not stop. Because of the boys' sensitivity to loud noises and crowds, they needed individual instruction about fire drills.
They cannot yet manage the noisy confusion of arrival. So each day, they enter school by a separate door. A closetlike room outside their classroom has been soundproofed to make a place where an aide can calm them for a few minutes if the classroom noise becomes too upsetting, or the boys' behavior becomes too upsetting to the class.
The victory of the class is that a visitor who walks in is not immediately aware of anything beyond a calm teacher who is working with a lively, wriggly, happy class. On one morning, Joe, a sweet-faced, brown-haired boy who has not begun to talk, sat quietly with his classmates as the teacher read "The Very Busy Spider."
The aide who works with Joe sat next to him, just off the rug, occasionally pointing his face toward the teacher or handing him a piece of Silly Putty or an egg timer to keep his hands occupied.
At one point, Joe began making noises, an "unh-unh" chant. The other children seemed unfazed, and the noise stopped after a few minutes.
It took Joe a long time to focus, But by midway through the book he was following along like the others.
The class uses a "choice board," with schematic pictures of different activities that the children can choose. They stick their name cards under the one they want, an approach to make communication easier for Joe and Eddie, and one that has proved popular with the whole class.
"It's a lot of work," Ms. Lawlor said. "But the bottom line for me is that I can have my children live with me, and they're part of this community. And that wouldn't be true everywhere."
Woodstock was not always so inclusionary. The change occurred in the late 1980's, after the district, made up of several small towns, had hired Kathleen Callahan to lead its special-education staff.
Since then, the district has eliminated separate classrooms for children with disabilities, stopped sending people to residential programs and strengthened its special-education staff to 26 professionals, plus dozens of paraprofessionals.
At the yearly Town Meeting, there are always questions about services to children with disabilities, which last year accounted for $500,000 of the $2.5 million budget for the elementary school.
"It's always an issue, since education is 60 percent of our tax bill here, and special education is a big chunk of that," said the chairwoman of the Woodstock Elementary board, Marian Koetsier. "Actually, I ran for the board in 1991 on the platform of figuring out why this budget was getting out of hand. And right around then a group was charged with studying our special-education services. They went in skeptical, but they came out believing, as I do, that we're mostly doing things right."
 
The Hopes
'Breaking Down Some of the Lines'
Across the state, in midafternoon at South Burlington High School, 20 students were working in the Enrichment Center, a large sunny space with 10 tables, computer carrels and a group of offices around the edge.
At one table, two ninth graders, one learning disabled and one not, worked with an art teacher, who spent the period going over their English homework with them.
At another table, a special-education teacher prepared five boys -- two with learning disabilities, one with attention deficit disorder and two without disabilities -- for a American history examination, reviewing the factors leading to the Industrial Revolution.
One boy had a pair of crutches at the table with him, and a wheelchair waited against the wall, for another student who uses a walker most of the day but sometimes needs the wheelchair.
Among the 860 students in the school, 82 are on the official caseload of the special-education staff. Most have specific learning disabilities, usually involving dyslexia, a reading disability. About one-fourth are emotionally disabled, and 12 are retarded, with I.Q.'s lower than 70.
More than 100 students pass through the enrichment center daily. Usually students without disabilities can schedule only one period a day there. Those with disabilities may receive special services there two periods a day.
Some of the brightest students go to the center to tutor their classmates or receive help on advanced-placement courses.
"We wanted to get away from the stigma of the resource room," said the coordinator of the center, Tim Warren. "At the beginning I know some kids called this the dummy room. So we still have a ways to go. But I think we're getting there. We're breaking down some of the lines."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Students like Jeron Fox, who has cerebral palsy, usually attend a separate school or classroom. But Jeron attends a regular 10th-grade class at Woodstock Union High School in Vermont. The state is a leader in placing disabled students in regular classes. (Evan Richman for The New York Times)(pg. 20)
 
Charts: "STATE BY STATE: Disabled Children, Regular Classrooms"
Percentages of disabled students who spent most of their school day in regular classrooms in the 1995-96 school year. (Source: U.S. Department of Education)
 
"OVERVIEW: Who They Are"
About 11 percent of students are classified by their local school districts as disabled. Here are the most common disabilities.
 
Learning disabilities 2,595,000
Speech or language impairment 1,026,000
Mental retardation 584,000
Emotional disturbance 438,000
Other 424,000
 
(Source: U.S. Department of Education)(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT; UNITED STATES (96%); VERMONT, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; LEARNING DISABILITIES; HANDICAPPED; SPECIAL EDUCATION (HANDICAPPED) DISABLED PERSONS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MENTAL RETARDATION (90%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); SPEECH & LANGUAGE DISORDERS (78%); PARAEDUCATORS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); EDUCATION LAW (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); DYSLEXIA (75%); HISTORY (75%); US INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES EDUCATION ACT (73%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (73%); CEREBRAL PALSY (71%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (71%); AUTISM (68%); DOWN SYNDROME (68%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (67%); 

PERSON: LEWIN, TAMAR

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



645 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1582 words

HEADLINE: PARTIES RETHINK THEIR CORE GOALS AS DEFICIT SHRINKS

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 27

 BODY:
After years dominated by Federal budget deficits, the capital faces a new quandary: how to deal with the prospect of surpluses.
Ever since the early years of the Reagan Presidency, the Federal deficit has defined the political debate and limited the range of social policy. It caused George Bush to break with his party's dogma of tax cutting. It frustrated Democrats who wanted activist government. It gave a brief impetus to Ross Perot. 
 Now, though, good times are presenting both President Clinton and the Republican leaders of Congress with a challenge to keep their political parties from fracturing and to prevent a new burst of unrestrained tax cutting and spending.
To tamp down the enthusiasm as the strong economy brings a surge of revenue to the Government, Mr. Clinton has taken to warning that the Federal deficit has yet to disappear. But while he urges caution, some analysts on Wall Street are predicting that a surplus will appear, perhaps as early as this fiscal year -- and well before the target date of 2002, which was set in the summer's balanced budget agreement.
Just as the end of the cold war left America's foreign policy makers on uncharted terrain, this prospect of surpluses radically alters the domestic debate, causing both parties to re-examine what they should stand for. "This is a historic starting point for one of the most important dialogues that we are going to have in our generation," Speaker Newt Gingrich said before Congress adjourned this year.
The last time the Government ran a surplus was in the 1969 fiscal year. The last time the Government ran two successive surpluses was in 1956 and in 1957 -- when Bill Clinton and Newt Gingrich were schoolboys.
The budget act of 1990, which set in place the budgeting procedures used on Capitol Hill, does not even have mechanisms to deal with a surplus. In a discipline geared to keeping the deficit from growing, it requires that any tax cuts or recurring spending increases enacted by Congress be offset by equal spending reductions or revenue increases.
"There's been a remarkable turnaround," said Gene Sperling, Mr. Clinton's chief economic adviser. "In the blink of an eye, we've gone from being accused that our balanced budget would only balance for one second to being questioned about why we won't admit there's a huge surplus and why we're being so stingy about talking about spending it."
The visions of plenty could turn out to be premature. No one is certain how the financial turmoil in Asia will affect the growth of the United States economy, and unexpected downturns could always occur.
White House and Congressional budget forecasters are planning to release new projections next month showing a positive development: that the deficit for the current fiscal year will be $20 billion to $30 billion less than the $58 billion the White House had previously forecast.
Recent Treasury Department figures go even further and suggest the possibility of a surplus. They show that in the last 12 months the Federal Government took in $2.4 billion more than it spent. And some Wall Street analysts are already projecting a $20 billion to $40 billion surplus by the time the current fiscal year ends in September.
Ever since an enormous structural deficit developed after the 1981 Reagan tax cut plan was approved by Congress, the red ink has constrained the domestic debate.
Even the most liberal Democrats acknowledged that insolvency hemmed in the possibility of activist government. And Republicans fractured between a wing of "deficit hawks" devoted to balancing the budget and a supply-side, tax-cutting faction, many of whose members believed that lower tax rates would bring higher revenues.
Now, just the glimmer of a post-deficit era has set off political pressures in Washington to break free of the balanced budget agreement struck by President Clinton and the Congress during the summer and allow more social spending and more tax cuts, or a more radical tax overhaul.
"Ultimately, the biggest problem this year will be: Can the leadership keep its troops in line?" said Stanley Collender, the managing director of the Federal budget consulting group for Burson-Marsteller, the public relations firm.
In the Republican Party, divisions are already sharpening between the balanced budget advocates and the ardent tax cutters. Disputes are also looming between those Republicans who want a business-oriented tax cut, like a further reduction in the capital gains tax, and those who want a family-oriented tax cut, like elimination of the "marriage penalty," under which many married couples who file jointly are pushed into higher tax brackets because of their combined income.
Some Republicans are pushing an entire revision of the income tax code to put in place a flat tax or a national sales tax.
The Republicans also have their spenders. Some want to increase military outlays or, like Representative Bud Shuster of Pennsylvania, chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, they want to spend billions on new highway and bridge projects.
Democrats, meanwhile, are trying to sort out how to promote a new social agenda without reviving their image as big spenders.
Like the Republicans, the Democrats have their fiscally conservative wing urging restraint. But there is strong sentiment in the party for programs to rebuild crumbling schools, address urban decay, provide health care for the uninsured and sponsor retraining programs for workers displaced by the information age economy.
Mr. Clinton has already indicated that in some policy areas he will be looking to use tax incentives instead of spending increases as a tool of social policy. He plans to propose tax incentives next year to promote day-care programs and to spur development of energy efficient technologies to curb global warming.
In both parties, new political strategies are being formulated. Some Republicans are trying to move away from advocating a balanced budget, per se, to emphasize shrinking government.
"I'm not a conservative because I believe in a balanced budget," said Representative Bill Archer, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. "I'm a conservative because I believe that a smaller government with less power means greater freedom and more opportunity for the American people."
Democrats in the Administration and Congress, meanwhile, say they are trying to guard against being stampeded by the Republicans into large tax cuts, like the Reagan tax cuts of 1981. The Democrats say they fear such tax cuts could bring new deficits early in the next century -- which, in turn, could then bring decades of cutting back government.
"The worst thing that could be done," Mr. Sperling said, "is if -- based on a surplus -- long-term promises on either tax cuts or spending were made that would prove completely unsustainable if the surplus went away or was less than projected. Repeating the mistakes of 1981 should not be an option."
This ferment inside and between the parties is likely to drive the 1998 midterm Congressional elections and carry into the Presidential campaign of 2000. But it carries a high risk -- that it will unravel the very balanced budget agreement that is helping usher the nation into a new period of plenty.
Administration officials and Congressional aides said Mr. Clinton, who wants to protect his legacy as a fiscally prudent leader, was acutely aware of this problem. "There is a general concern that there could be a feeding frenzy that could blow away the fiscal progress," one Administration official said.
Representative John R. Kasich, the Ohio Republican who is chairman of the House Budget Committee, is also trying to head off sentiment for deviating from the five-year budget agreement.
"This is something we have to be vigilant about," he said. "I don't want any additional Federal spending above the agreement."
Mr. Gingrich recently weighed in by calling on Mr. Clinton to propose a balanced budget for the new fiscal year instead of waiting until 2002 to bring the budget into balance. An actual balanced budget -- as opposed to a plan to balance the budget -- would be a potent achievement on which incumbents could run in the 1998 Congressional elections.
Some fiscal watchdog groups and some lawmakers want the Government to preserve any surplus, rather than devoting it to new programs or tax cuts. Such action would effectively allow the Treasury to begin retiring some of the nation's $5.5 trillion debt and have more resources on hand for when the baby boom generation begins retiring and putting a strain on Medicare and Social Security.
The position of those who want to protect a potential surplus could be strengthened if the first surpluses to appear were small -- less than $10 billion, for example.
That would not be enough money to accommodate many big initiatives. And spending it could involve some political risk if revenue projections prove faulty. Who, after all, would want to be the politician to propose the tax cut or new program that would be blamed for taking this first surplus, a true political milestone, and spending it -- thus sending the Federal Government back into deficit?
"With it being an election year," said Representative David M. McIntosh, an Indiana Republican who is promoting the elimination of the marriage penalty, "people are not going to be willing to be the one who will say they had a balanced budget and threw it away."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: End of a Long String of Deficits?"
Only four budgets of the United States Government have shown a surplus since 1955. (Source: Budget of the United States Government; Fiscal Year 1998, Historical Tables)(pg. 21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING NATIONAL DEBT (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); COLD WAR (77%); POLITICS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) RONALD REAGAN (91%); BILL CLINTON (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



646 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Charges by Mexico Link PRI Mayor to Killings

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER 

DATELINE: POLHO, Mexico, Dec. 27

 BODY:
The Attorney General's office said tonight that there was a link between the local government and the massacre of 45 people earlier this week in southern Mexico. The federal officials charged the top regional administrator not only with murder but also with providing a paramilitary group with the high-caliber weapons used in the killings.
Few details were released last night, but Everardo Moreno, the Deputy Attorney General in charge of the investigation, said Jacinto Aria Cruz, municipal president of Chenalho, a region of Chiapas, had confessed to sending the weapons in a municipal car. Mr. Moreno spoke at a news conference in the Chiapas capital of Tuxtla Gutierrez. 
 Mr. Arias was sent to a state prison, along with 23 other people charged today with murder, assault and organized crime in connection with the killings. On Friday, another 16 people were charged.
The arrest was significant because it seemed to confirm, at least on the lowest level, that members of the nation's ruling party, the Institutional Revolutionary Party, had a hand in the killings. Survivors of the attack said the assassins were members of the party. Both the Government of President Ernesto Zedillo and that of the state of Chiapas have strongly denied any involvement.
During the day as many as 3,000 people from villages deep in the mountains of southern Mexico, many trudging barefoot for five hours in the rain, fled from their homes for fear of other attacks from bands of gunmen who carried out the massacre of 45 Tzotzil Indians on Monday.
Carrying what little they owned -- cooking pots, machetes, wooden stools -- they arrived in exhausted groups this afternoon at a refugee center in this small town, only a mile from the site of the massacre. The town has already swelled to several times its normal population as people have fled growing violence that human rights groups say is being carried out by gunmen hostile those who sympathize with an Indian guerrilla group, the Zapatista National Liberation Army.
"We need to eat," a 39-year-old man who would give only his first name, Marcelino, said as he walked up the muddy side of a hill with his wife and eight children. "The children are crying because they are hungry."
The people fleeing told stories of being under virtual siege in recent months by paramilitary groups. They said the gunmen, who opposition leaders say are loyal to the nation's ruling party, have blocked off tiny dirt roads in several small towns that are the only supply route for food and have barred anyone from the leaving. The gunman also stole people's possessions and stole or extorted money, they said.
"First they demanded 10,000 pesos," said Vincente Jimenez Hernandez, 31, who was one of perhaps 500 people who fled the village of Los Chorros, reportedly a stronghold for the paramilitary groups. "Where do I get that? Then they said, 5,000 pesos. If you didn't give them the money, you were going to die. They were going to shoot you."
In his second communique this week, Subcommander Marcos, leader of the Zapatistas, released his own investigation into the killing today, saying that responsibility went much higher than the regional government. He accused both the state and federal governments of paying other Indians to fight a covert war against the Zapatistas. Nearly all of the people arrested have been other Tzotzil.
"It is not only about buying loyalties," he said. "It is a real recruiting system, a system to make governmental war against the Indians with Indians."
The exodus of refugees may come as yet another embarrassment to the PRI and to the Chiapas state government, both already under harsh public criticism because of questions about whether local police could have stopped the attack in Acteal on Monday in light of the growing violence in the region.
The events today may again raise the question of why the government did not step in earlier. The exodus was coordinated by an unusual coalition of human rights groups and nongovernmental organizations, along with the federal Army, the state of Chiapas and the Attorney General's office.
It was unclear this evening which of the groups began the effort to lead the people out of the besieged towns. Uriel Jarquin, deputy secretary of government for the state of Chiapas, which has come under the harshest criticism since the massacre, said his agency had sent 10 trucks to carry people from the villages, along with food and clothing.
But even as he emphasized the government's eagerness to help, Mr. Jarquin took at swipe at the human rights groups that have accused the government of not preventing the attack. "It's easy to make an accusation," he said. "If they were sure something was about to happen why didn't they do this 15 days ago? Why did they wait to act? An action is something that is done, not said."
The exact number of people who fled was not certain; aid officials said they had counted well over 3,000 people. Several hundred were seen plodding up a muddy road into Polho, and in shelters inside the town.
People from several of the towns said that they needed to leave because food was running short with no supplies coming in. Arturo Sanabria, a doctor with a nongovernmental health organization, said many of the children were sick, with severe diarrhea and respiratory problems. "You can see they are afraid," he said. "There is undernourishment, and not only among the children."
Mariano Perez Vasquez, 27, said the paramilitary groups had been becoming more aggressive in recent weeks in his village of Los Chorros, robbing and threatening people they suspected of being sympathic with the Zapatistas, who began an uprising four years ago for greater economic and political rights.
He said they forbade anyone to leave the town, and their fear was justified the day of the massacre, in which he said several of the paramilitary members in his town participated. "When they got back, they were like zombies -- the living dead," Mr. Perez said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tzotzil Indians arriving at a refugee center in Polho in southern Mexico yesterday after fleeing their homes in fear of further attacks by gunmen like the one that killed 45 people in a nearby village on Monday. (Gerardo Magallon for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; CHIAPAS (MEXICO); MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MURDER (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); REFUGEES (78%); EXTORTION (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); POLITICS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (68%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); CIVIL WAR (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); 

PERSON: FISHER, IAN; MORENO, EVERARDO; ARIAS CRUZ, JACINTO ERNESTO ZEDILLO (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



647 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: HOWARD F. WARD;
Gabelli Growth Fund

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
LIKE the alchemists of old, Howard F. Ward, who runs the Gabelli Growth fund, attempts to take common ingredients -- familiar big companies, common themes, standard financial measures -- and spin them into gold.
And he has succeeded, at least, in beating his peers recently. Gabelli Growth gained 34.5 percent for the 12 months through Wednesday, compared with 21 percent for all large-capitalization growth funds. Mr. Ward also beat the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which gained 27.3 percent in that time, according to Morningstar Inc., the fund tracking firm in Chicago. 
 For the three years ended on Wednesday, Gabelli Growth rose 29.6 percent a year, on average, handily beating its peer group (24.1 percent) and just ahead of the S.& P. 500, (29.5 percent).
A growth-at-a-price manager, Mr. Ward, 41, aims to buy large companies with solid earnings growth where the stock price is at least 20 percent below where he figures it should be. He looks for earnings growth rates of at least 12 percent a year.
Mr. Ward devised his own earnings model for valuing a five-year projected earnings stream. He compares the earnings to the yield on long-term Treasury bonds and adds a premium to compensate for equity risk.
The model produces what he calls a "fair value" price for companies that he uses as a benchmark to buy or sell. At present, the model is identifying many companies with multiples below prevailing rates.
"There are a lot of stocks that look overvalued on a short-term basis that we think look attractive on a long-term basis," he said. "When current earnings growth is compounded at a 15 percent rate, multiples come down rapidly." For example, at a 15 percent annual earnings growth rate, a company's price-to-earnings multiple is halved every five years.
Regardless of his earnings value model, Mr. Ward will not buy shares in a company if the price is more than 30 times 12-month estimated earnings. The average for the fund's companies is 22 times earnings.
Over all, he expects earnings growth of American companies to be "subdued" in 1998, averaging 5 percent. But that gain will "mask some companies' sharply falling earnings," especially in technology stocks, a result of Asia's troubles, he said.
"The volatility that we've seen in the last few months is not going to go away soon," he said. "I'd be really happy to see a 10 percent return, not 20 percent like we've had."
 Based on his earnings model, Mr. Ward has reduced the fund's stake in consumer staples to 8 percent of the portfolio, from 15 percent, tossing out companies like Procter & Gamble. He has shrunk aerospace companies, like Boeing, to 5 percent, from 12 percent, and technology to 12 percent, from 20 percent.
He called Procter & Gamble a "great company," and sold shares reluctantly as the price rose. But he said he would buy back Procter & Gamble shares if they fell into the high $60's, down from nearly $80. He also plans to buy back shares in General Electric if prices fall into the low $60's, from the $70's.
The fund's money has mostly gone into health care and financial services, two sectors that could benefit from three long-term trends he sees: the aging of the populations of the United States, Europe and Japan, the information-technology revolution and economic globalization.
The biggest sector in the fund is now financial services, at 25 percent, which stretches his unwritten rule limiting any sector to 20 percent of the fund's assets.
One reason, he said, was "the lack of attractively priced stocks in a number of sectors." He also said that "the interest rate environment favors financial services issues."
The next-biggest sectors are health care (15 percent of the portfolio), technology (12 percent) and media and business services, (10 percent each).
Mr. Ward examines how companies fit his earnings model and how they reflect the three long-term trends. He whittles the list further by looking for companies with a competitive edge: a dominant brand name, superior management, a proprietary product or limited competition.
Mr. Ward inherited 130 stocks when he took over Gabelli Growth in January 1995 from Elizabeth Bramwell, who left to start her own shop. He began selling off stocks, cutting the portfolio to 90 companies by June 1997, and has since reduced the total even more, to 55.
"We don't want our best ideas diluted by more marginal ones," said Mr. Ward, who plans to keep the fund at 50 to 60 stocks. The fund's top 10 stocks account for 40 percent of its portfolio.
Mr. Ward joined Gabelli Asset Management from Scudder, Stevens & Clark, where he worked with large-cap growth investments but ran no mutual funds.
In addition to the $930 million fund, he runs a few small institutional accounts at Gabelli, but his focus is on Gabelli Growth, which, he says is the largest holding in both his personal retirement and his nonretirement accounts. Fellow shareholders include his mother- and brothers-in-law.
 
A Fee Generator
Playing off his financial services theme, Mr. Ward is adding to his position in Northern Trust, a financial services holding company in Chicago. Northern Trust banks derive 65 percent of their revenues from fee-based businesses, primarily asset management for the wealthy, he said.
Unlike mutual funds, this type of business has few competitors, Mr. Ward said. Also unlike fund investors, these wealthy clients "won't up and leave if the market turns down, because the bank manages their entire portfolio," he said.
The bank has offices throughout the country. Its business "has a high service component, and they're good at it," he said.
He predicts a 16 percent earnings growth rate annually over the next five years, above consensus earnings forecasts of roughly 12 percent. The company's price-to-earnings multiple, based on the consensus earnings forecast for 1998 of $3.01 and Friday's close of $64.50, is 21.4.
 
Confidence in a Drug Maker
Mr. Ward's push into health care has led him into Merck, one of the nation's largest pharmaceutical companies. He said Merck had consistently produced new products because of big spending on research and development and because of a strong distribution system that was strengthened by its acquisition of Medco Containment Services.
Moreover, Merck, another of the fund's top 10 holdings, has "great management and proprietary products," he said. Wall Street consistently prices shares too low based on incomplete information, he added, noting that the shares recently jumped to $105 from $90 after the company disclosed several new products to analysts. Last week, Merck gained Food and Drug Administration approval to sell Propecia, a prescription drug for baldness.
He predicts annual earnings growth of about 20 percent over the next five years, and expects earnings of $4.40 a share in 1998, meaning that the company sells for just under 24 times projected 1998 earnings.
"We don't think that's much of a premium at all, compared to the market at 21 times earnings and the three companies that Wall Street favors," he said. By comparison, Eli Lilly sells for 35 times the consensus 1998 earnings forecast; Pfizer, for 36 and Warner-Lambert, 29.
 
A Global Brand
His second-largest holding is Gillette, which accounts for nearly 5 percent of the fund's portfolio. "It's a well-known story that goes back to the globalization theme and dominant brands," Mr. Ward said.
"Gillette is the razor business," he said. The company also produces Duracell batteries, "and both businesses travel well across different cultures around the world," he said.
He expects the company's earnings to grow at 17 percent a year over the next five years. With earnings of $3 a share expected in 1998, Gillette has a multiple of 32, just over Mr. Ward's limit of 30, and he has stopped buying shares. But he plans to add to the position if shares fall below $90.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 1998, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 28 about the investment strategy of Howard F. Ward, manager of the Gabelli Growth fund, referred incorrectly to some of his responsibilities at a previous employer, Scudder, Stevens & Clark. He indeed managed mutual funds -- two of them, as well as large-cap growth investments for institutional accounts.


GRAPHIC: Photo: At Gabelli Growth, earnings models are a key to Howard F. Ward's stock selections. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "3 Picks for Gabelli Growth" shows weekly closes of Northern Trust, Merck, and Gillette. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (71%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); ASIA (66%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); ASIA (66%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MUTUAL FUNDS COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); BONDS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); 

PERSON: WARD, HOWARD F; GOULD, CAROLE

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



648 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT;
A Company Where Retirement Is a Dirty Word

BYLINE: By JULIE FLAHERTY 

DATELINE: NEEDHAM, Mass.

 BODY:
AS far as he can recall, Frederick Hartman has never dismissed an employee. In its 65-year history, his company has never had a layoff. And he has never asked anyone to retire.
Quite the contrary. When Mary Boyt retired recently -- at the age of 89 -- Mr. Hartman was not at all happy about it. 
 "That got me ticked off," he said, shaking his head in disgust. "Her daughter pushed her into retirement. She was a great worker. I hope I'm as sharp at that age."
Mr. Hartman is president of the Vita Needle Company in Needham. And at Vita Needle, there is no such thing as mandatory retirement; even the suggestion is scoffed at. After all, the average age here is 73. Most of the 35 employees joined the small factory as a second career, after retiring from jobs as engineers, nurses, bakers or what have you.
Not that Mr. Hartman, who is 45, is just being nice. He says he recruits older people because he finds them loyal, responsible and eligible for Medicare -- eliminating the need for company-paid health coverage.
Rosa Finnegan, a retired waitress and a widow, took a job here a year ago because her Social Security check was not paying the taxes on her Needham home.
Like most of those who work and chat at the wood benches on the factory floor, Ms. Finnegan praises the flexible hours, the plant's location a few miles from her home and the opportunity just to keep busy. The work, assembling small metal components by hand, is less than exciting, but, she asked, "Who else is going to hire me at 86?"
Actually, in today's tight labor market, someone just might. The national unemployment rate was 4.6 percent in November, the lowest since 1970, and as it has fallen, employers have sought out workers in age brackets they might not otherwise have considered. In 1995, some 3.8 million people 65 and older had jobs; that is 2.9 percent of that age group, up from 2.5 percent a decade earlier, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
When the American Association of Retired Persons Bulletin asked its readers to complete a questionnaire about their employment, 2,700 people working after age 65 wrote in, many of them former retirees. "We think it's a growing phenomenon as the labor market tightens and employers are finding it hard to fill jobs," said Robert Lewis, senior editor of the publication.
At Vita Needle, though, hiring older workers is nothing new. In 1934, Mr. Hartman's great-grandfather, Oscar E. Nutter, came out of retirement from the textile industry to start the business, which makes a variety of industrial and medical needles. He was 68, and he ran the company until three days before his death at 96. His nephew Carl Nutter worked until he was 88. And despite gall bladder surgery recently, Fred Hartman's father, Mason, at 72, the employee with the most seniority, was soon back at his desk keeping the books.
When Fred Hartman took over the family business 10 years ago, he saw that recruiting retirees would be in keeping with the company's experience with older workers. Mr. Hartman hired Bill Ferson, who was 68, as a design engineer. Now 79, Mr. Ferson is still here because, he said, "they treat us like human beings."
Lena Ferrara, who is 73, said Mr. Hartman called her not long after she left her job at an oil company and asked her to help out. Last week, she put in 40 hours. "He didn't give me a chance to retire," she said.
Having a staff of predominantly older workers has its ups and downs, Mr. Hartman acknowledged. But he is committed to them.
"They are motivated; they take care of the equipment; they don't have the P.T.A. meetings or the kids in day care," Mr. Hartman said. Most important, he said, "coming to work is a high priority" for them.
According to a 1993 report by the Commonwealth Fund in New York, most employers surveyed nationally said workers over 55 were better than younger workers when it came to work attitude, turnover and absenteeism. Another report by the fund found that of older Americans who did not work, one in seven was willing and able to do so.
"This work is kind of like therapy," Ms. Ferrara said. "Getting up early, getting dressed every day, not sitting around in your pajamas. It was too boring to be at home when no one's there. You clean your house for two days in a row, and then what?"
Almost all the older workers in Vita Needle's nonunion work force are part-time, some working as little as 15 hours a week. Two-thirds of them are women, with the workers' pay ranging from $6 to $12 an hour. The company promotes flex time, giving workers a lot of leeway in their choice of workdays and hours. Many employees have keys to the building, so some come in before daylight while others work into the evening; the last ones out shut off the lights.
"Older people are more likely to leave jobs that are physically demanding or have rigid schedules, and more likely to re-enter jobs with flexible schedules," said Diane Herz, an economist with the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
THE downside of such laissez-faire scheduling, Mr. Hartman said, is occasionally not having all the hands he needs when he needs them. "Summers and winters are harder on us," he said. "People want to go to Florida, or go down to Cape Cod with their grandchildren for a few weeks."
But his workers, he noted, do not need as much supervision. "People are letting themselves in at 5 in the morning," he said. "I'm not here telling them what to do."
A paper tacked on the bulletin board reads: "Remember, old folks are worth a fortune -- with silver in their hair, gold in their teeth, stones in their kidneys, lead in their feet and gas in their stomachs." And the physical limitations of aging do not go unnoticed. Jim Connolly, a design engineer, remembers one woman who would doze off at her workbench. And, he said, "you get the occasional oddball who makes you a little nervous."
Because the factory is housed in what was once a second-floor movie theater, "the stairs are a bone of contention," Mr. Hartman said. Although no previous experience in the field is necessary, applicants must be able to make it up the steps.
The aging building that houses the business has no loading dock -- it did not even have hot water until the late 80's. It is also cramped for space; the former theater stage is packed with yards of steel tubing. But moving to another site would mean losing employees; many walk or take a short ride to work. Last year, the company, which had been renting its space, bought the whole building. "We're in it for the long haul," Mr. Hartman said.
OLDER workers, of course, can be more resistant to something new. "Change isn't always easy when you have a labor force that is advanced in years," Mr. Hartman said. Mary Bianchi, 76, the office manager, threatened to quit when he replaced her typewriter with a word processor. There were arguments over the addition of the fax machine ("No one thought it would work"), the air-conditioner, even the microwave. "I still think a third of our people won't go next to it," Mr. Hartman said.
On the other hand, the company has remade itself in recent years. In the 1980's, the spread of AIDS caused a huge shift toward the use of disposable needles, making obsolete the re-usable medical needles that were Vita's specialty.
To reinvent itself, Vita found other uses for its type of product -- developing tubes for embalming, tagging salmon, vaccinating wild animals and injecting foam into car seats. One customer, Sea World, contracts with Vita for 4-foot-long needles used to medicate killer whales.
The workers, many of them widows, hardly blush when discussing the special needles for piercing navels, noses, tongues and, um, other body parts. "We're kind of a player in that market," Mr. Hartman said, with slight embarrassment.
By adapting to new manufacturing procedures, the staff has proved itself as versatile as the products. Mr. Ferson used his 30 years of experience in a machine shop to create a gauge that allows him to work with tubing the size of a human hair.
With its new customer base, the company has grown to 35 employees, from 15 in 1984. Sales have doubled in the last five years, and are expected to grow 15 to 20 percent this year.
More change is on the way. Although Ms. Bianchi, the office manager, keeps the company paperwork in files on a shelf behind her desk, computerization is in the works. As he helped her pull down a box, Mr. Hartman, 31 years her junior, joked about when she would retire.
"You're here until three figures, Mary, three figures," he said.
She smiled and said, "You'll have to put the elevator in for me."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 4, 1998, Sunday
PUB-DATE: January 11, 1998

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the Vita Needle Company, where the work force includes many retirees from various occupations, misstated the year it was founded. It was 1932, not 1934.
An article on Dec. 28 about the Vita Needle Company, where the work force includes many retirees from various occupations, misstated the number of Americans age 65 and older who had jobs in 1995. It was 3.7 million, not 3.8 million. The article also misstated the percentage of people in that age group who held jobs in 1995 and 1985. It was 11.7 percent in 1995, not 2.9 percent. It was 10.4 percent in 1985, not 2.5 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Vita Needle Company in Needham, Mass., offers flexible schedules to its staff of predominantly older workers. Marion Archibald, 87, is among the 35 employees. (Kirsten Elstner for The New York Times)(pg. 11)
 
Chart: "Who's Who"
Some of the venerable employees of the Vita Needle Company.
 
1. Mary Bianchi 76
2. Frederick Hartman 45, the company's president
3. Mason Hartman 72, his father, who keeps the company's books
4. Kay Whitcher 77
5. Joan Golley 63
6. Marilyn Devine 65
7. Marion Archibald 87
8. Ann Poulos 73
9. Ernie Garron 53
10. Al Goodrow 73
11. Alice Walker 79
12. Marsha Clifford 85
13. Florence Hollis 88
14. Jennifer Cushman 34
15. Eleanor Clark 82
16. Blake Harrison 41
17. Roland Hickok 75
18. Michael LaRosa 39
19. Jim Connolly 74
20. Rosa Finnegan 87
21. Helen Morrissey 75
22. William Bradley 86
23. Bill Ferson 79
24. Frank Fiorello 86
25. Tom Mann 84

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: VITA NEEDLE CO MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: VITA NEEDLE CO MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; AGED; RETIREMENT; HEALTH INSURANCE LAYOFFS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AGING (87%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (72%); STATISTICS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); MEDICARE (67%); TEXTILES (50%); 

PERSON: FLAHERTY, JULIE; HARTMAN, FREDERICK

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1997



649 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 9; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 2399 words

HEADLINE: 100 Years Of Being Really Big

BYLINE: By Kenneth T. Jackson; Kenneth T. Jackson, a professor of history at Columbia University, is the author of "Crabgrass Frontier" and the editor of "The Encyclopedia of New York City."

 BODY:
A century ago New Yorkers celebrated New Year's Eve with special exuberance. Dec. 31, 1997, was filled with speeches, parades, fireworks, brass bands and the reading of a commissioned "Ode to Greater New York." At midnight, illuminated by the glow of 500 magnesium lights, thousands of people gathered in front of City Hall (there was as yet no Times Square and no descending ball) to sing "Auld Lang Syne" and watch the raising of the city's new flag.
 
 Five counties and 40 municipalities were now one enormous metropolis. New York's population instantly jumped to 3.4 million from 2 million, making it the second-largest city in the world, trailing only London. and by absorbing Brooklyn as well as remote outlying villages like Jamaica, Douglaston and Flushing in Queens and Tottenville, Stapleton and Great Kills on Staten Island, the city expanded to 300 square miles from 44.
 The consolidation of the five boroughs, coming 272 years after Dutch colonists gave birth to the city, was the brainchild of Andrew Haswell Green, the president of the Central Park Commission, who in 1868 had proposed uniting under one municipal roof all the territory that today comprises the Bronx, Brooklyn, Manhattan, Queens (a portion of which was withheld - it would soon become Nassau County) and Staten Island.
 The final push for consolidation came from a Republican governor and Republican state legislators, who evidently hoped that the addition of middle-class voters from outlying districts would dilute the influence of Tammany Hall, Manhattan's powerful Democratic organization.
 Considering the magnitude of the issue, it generated surprisingly little debate, although individual communities reacted differently to consolidation. Some parts of the Bronx, like Kingsbridge, Morrisania and West Farms, had joined the city as early as 1874. The rest of the borough, however, lagged 21 years behind.
 Brooklynites were especially reluctant. They feared, justifiably, that their proud community, at the time the nation's fourth-largest city, would be overwhelmed by its more powerful neighbor and that consolidation would change the Protestant character of Brooklyn's neighborhoods. In a non-binding referendum held in 1894, Brooklynites voted to join Manhattan by the slimmest of margins - 65,744 to 65,467. The victory was secured only because Brooklyn was strapped fiscally and needed tax revenue from Manhattan to pay for schools, roads, water mains and sewers.
 Had New York City remained as Manhattan alone, its population would have peaked at 2.3 million in 1910, leaving the city second in size to Chicgao. Had Manhattan added only the Bronx, the city's population would never have reach 3.4 million - Chicago still would have surpassed it in population eventually.
 But consolidation gave Gotham vast new spaces, and its population continued to soar. From 1900 to 1930 both Queens and the Bronx grew six-fold, and Brooklyn more than doubled. By 1930, New York had almost seven million inhabitants and had overtaken London as the world's largest city.
 Without consolidation, the other boroughs might have become important cities in their own right. In 1997, Brooklyn has about as many inhabitants as Chicago, Queens more than Philadelphia, the Bronx more than Detroit and Staten Island more than St. Louis.
 Not that New York was unique in its territorial expansion. Almost every major American city expanded its boundaries after 1850. And in the 20th century, Los Angeles, Houston, Dallas, Jacksonville, Oklahoma City, Memphis, Phoenix, Indianapolis and San Diego have all annexed space; All are now bigger in area than New York and have had proportionately larger population increases. (The growth of New York, of course, did not stop at the city border - the entire region has grown tremendously. Now, 63 percent of the 20 million people in the metropolitan region live outside the city.)
 What is unusual about New York is that its transformation has been consistent with its own past and different from that of other American cities. In at least 10 ways, the metropolis remains distinct in ways exaggerated, not diminished, by the passing of 100 years.
 Temp. New Yorkers walk faster, work longer, eat later and compete harder than most other Americans.
 These behavioral patterns have deep roots. In 1626, when the Dutch set up a permanent trading post on Manhattan, their goal was not to convert the Indians or to achieve religious freedom, but to make money.
 Visiting Manhattan in 1774 from Puritan Boston, Johna Adams complained, "I have not seen one real gentle-man, one well-bred man, since I came to town." New Yorkers, he added, "talk very loud, very fast, and altogether."
 "If they ask you a questions," Adams continued, "before you can utter three words of your answer, they will break out on you again and talk away."
 Poor breeding? Perhaps. But New Yorkers established the first Chamber of Commerce in the Western Hemisphere in 1768, developed the concept of regularly scheduled shipping service in 1818, built the erie Canal by 1825 and established the nation's dominanat stock exchange by the 1840's.
 Diversity. In recent decades, every important city has become multicultural, multiracial and multireligious. But New York has never been anything else. As early as the 1640's, 18 different languages were already being spoken in colonial New Amsterdam, whose population was still less than a thousand.
 Ever since, New York has been the most polyglot place on earth. By 1880, when the city had the world's largest immigrant labor force, tourists might walk for blocks without hearing, or seeing, a word of English. As Jacob Riis noted in his 1890 classic, "How the Other Half Lives," "A map of the city, colored to designate nationalities, would show more stripes than on the skin of a zebra, and more colors than any rainbow."
 In 1947, when New York became the headquarters of the United Nations, it was already a United Nations in miniature. Fifty years have not changed this. In 1997, more than 11 of every 20 New Yorkers are immigrants or the children of immigrants. The metropolitan region has more Brazilians than any similar area outside South America, more Greeks than any city outside Greece, more Chinese than any city outside Asia, and more Jews, Puerto Ricans and Deominicans than any city anywhere.
 Tolerance. Despite tragic ethnically charged incidents in Howard Beach, Crown Heights and other neighborhoods, most New Yorkers have learned to control their prejudices.
 Again, the Dutch set the standard. In the early 17th century, even as Anne Hutchinson was being kicked out of Boston because of minor religious differences, the West India Company was welcoming Lutherans, Quakers, Anabaptists, Catholics and Jews to Manhattan.
 New York has always been ahaven for outcasts, sinners, revolutionaries, anarchists and dissidents. Can it be mere coincidence that the American Communist Party, the N.A.A.C.P. and the gay rights in the city? Or that Pakistanis and Indians, Arabs and Jews, Bosnians and Serbs, and Irish Portestants and Catholics manage, for the most part, to coexist in New York in peace?
 Density. Compared with other American cities, New York has always been crowded. The first Dutch settlers hudled together below Wall Street. A century ago, the average population density on the Lower East Side exceeded 260,000 per square mile, and in certain precincts it reached 600,000 per square mile, a total never matched at any other time or in any other place.
 Today, New York still stands apart. The population density of San Francisco is 16,000 per square mile; in Chicago the number is 12,000, and in Los Angeles it is 7,500. The density figure for the five boroughs is 25,000 per square mile, and for Manhattan it is 65,000 per square mile.
 As a rule, Americans have been fleeing fromt he inner city. Since 1950, the population of Chicago proper has dropped 25 percent, Baltimore 28 percent, Phildadelphia 29 percent, Washington 32 percent, Cleveland 43 percent, Pittsburgh 45 percent, Detroit 46 percent and St. Louis 54 percent.
 New York and San Francisco are the exceptions. The population of each is down only about 5 percent from its peak and has grown for the past 15 years. Houston, San Diego, Phoenix, San Antonio, Dallas and many other cities have made huge gains recently, but they have done so by annexing surrounding territory, and their population density has declined substantially since World War II.
 What makes New York exceptional is that even as many have left the city, others have always been ready to take their place.
 Public transportation. A century ago, the United States had the best and most extensive public transit system in the world. Since thne, in city after city, Americans have ripped up their streetcar tracks, starved their bus systems and built superhighways.
 New York is the exception. Its proportion of the nation's transit riders has doubled in the 20th century, and its subways, buses and commuter trains are used by more people today than a quarter century ago.
 Vibrant central business district. Bustling department stores, once the signature institution of every city, are now only memories in many places, thanks to the urban exodus of the last 50 years, which has given us subdivisions, shopping malls, office parks and highway strip developments but has left American downtowns desolate and forlorn, especially after dark.
 New York again is an exception. Despite the loss of Gimbels, B. Altman and Bonwit Teller, the sidewalks of midtown Manhattan remain crowded, and grand emporiums like Macy's, Lord & Taylor, Bloomingdale's, Saks Fifth Avenue, Brooks Brothers, Bergdorf Goodman and a dozen others continue to enchant windown shoppers as not mall ever could.
 A substantial middle and upper class. In most North American cities, the rich live on the edges and the poor reside in the middle. New Yorkers, to be sure, started this trend. The pioneered the suburban movement in Brooklyn Heights and later in Westchester County, Long Island and New Jersey.
 But the middle class has never really abandoned the center of New York. Neighborhoods throughout the city include the kinds of people who elsewhere would be firmly ensconced in the suburbs. The affluent are conspicuous, too, so much so that Manhattan is the richest county in the nation per capita, the wealthiest ZIP code in America is Manhattan's 10021, and the highest residential real estate values in the United States are along Fifth Avenue, Park Avenue and Central Park West.
 A sustainable environment. The idea of pristine nature and of clean air and water conjures up images of wood-burning Vermonters, not cliff dwellers in Manhattan. But New Yorkers also tread lightly on the land. They use fewer fossil fuels to get from place and to heat and cool their residences. By any measure, apartments are more energy efficient than houses, just as walking and using public transit are more efficient than moving a ton and a half of metal to make a trip to the grocer.
 Public housing. Today, public housing, expecially fo the high-rise variety, is generally considered a failure in the United States. Thousands of units have been abandoned because even the poor refuse to live in such miserable environments. As a result, cities across the nation have razed entire complexes. But not in New york, where tens of thousands of families are on the waiting list and many of the public housing complexes are in remarkably good order, despite major cuts in Federal subsidies in the last 15 years.
 Safety. The scary image of New York, fed by movies and television, causes newcomers a to feel a twinge of fear when they venture out. Actually, New York has seldom been among the nation's most dangerous cities. In part this is the result of a homicide rate that only rarely has been in the nation's top 10 and that recently has plunged so low that Gotham no longer ranks in the top 100 most violent American cities.
 But the unusual freedom from sudden death that New Yorkers enjoy is related to the transportation system and population density, not crime. Quite simply, most New Yorkers are less likely to die prematurely than other Ameicans because of a low automobile fatality rate.
 In other parts of the country, automobiles are required for virtually all journeys. But New Yorkers walk to many destinations. Short trips are the norm. By reducing distance traveled, New Yorkers remain out of the street and thus out of harm's way.
 These 10 characteristics have contributed to New York's status as a unique metropolis. Although many consider it out of date and out of touch, in truth it should be a model for other American cities.
 New York City has intractable problems. Since 1980, the incomes of the poor have fallen dramatically, even as public sympathy for the plight of poor people has eroded. And the gap between rich and poor is higher in New York than anywhere else.
 New York's public schools, once the pride of the city, have in all too many cases become dangerous or dysfunctional. The water system, long the finest in the world, is leaking beneath the streets and in need of major investment. Bridges are rusting dangerously, and New Yorkers often navigate streets that would be an embarrassment to a developing nation. The port, once the busiest in the world, is silting up and losing market share. There were a million factory jobs in 1954; now there are fewer than 200,000.
 Nonetheless, over the last 372 years, New York City has shown remarkable resilience and a capacity for change and renewal. Since 1945, for example, it has led the nation into a new service-oriented economy. Meanwhile, its high population density, its reputation for tolerance and acceptance, its concentrated wealth and its striking heterogeneity - in short, its urbanity - have made it the artistic and cultural citadel of the age.
 No other place can so convincingly claim to be the capital of capitalism, the capital of the 20th century and the capital of the world. As John Steinbeck said: "It is an ugly city, a dirty city. Its climate is a scandal. Its politics are used to frighten children. Its traffic is madness. Its competition is murderous. But there is one thing about it - once you have lived in New York and it has become your home, no other place is good enough."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORY EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); CITIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); REFERENDUMS (64%); GOVERNORS (64%); 

PERSON: JACKSON, KENNETH T (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1998



650 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1997

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1773 words

HEADLINE: No Sexism, Please; They're British

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING 

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
The remarkable thing about this year's Turner Prize, Britain's best-known visual arts award, was not that all four finalists were women. It was that the selection of an all-female short list caused little surprise. Only a few years ago, women who are artists were noteworthy for their absence here. Today, their prominent place in Britain's lively contemporary art scene is taken for granted.
"Things have changed radically," said Gillian Wearing, 34, the video and photography artist who won the $33,700 Turner Prize this month. "The other day, I was looking at the art columns of a 1985 magazine, and all the shows were of men. Just one woman, Gillian Ayres, was reviewed. In my time, things have been balanced. I have never had to worry about my gender." 
 Indeed, if it always seemed unfair to talk about "women artists" while men were known simply as artists, today the distinction has become largely irrelevant here. Feminist artists of the 1970's and 80's, notably in the United States, may be admired as heroines of a past struggle, but they are no longer role models in Britain. Here, artists formerly known as women, so to speak, are now numerous and successful.
Apart from Ms. Wearing and the other 1997 Turner finalists, Cornelia Parker, Christine Borland and Angela Bulloch, Britain now has 15 to 20 women who have begun to make names for themselves as artists. They are represented by reputable galleries, they exhibit regularly in Britain and abroad, their shows are reviewed in newspapers and their work is being acquired by museums and collectors.
In 1993, the sculptor Rachel White read, who is now 34, became the first woman to win the Turner Prize, and several other women have been included in Turner short lists in the 90's. Further, women accounted for 10 of the 41 artists represented in "Sensation," a group show of young British artists' works from the Saatchi collection that has just closed at the Royal Academy in London.
Yet because the female artists of the new generation of are mainly in their late 20's and 30's, they are only distantly aware of how difficult things were as recently as the 1980's for older, established artists like Ms. Ayres, Bridget Riley and Helen Chadwick, who died in 1996. The younger women consider it normal to enjoy freedom, equality and a degree of economic security.
"It's only extraordinary how quickly this has happened," said Cathy de Monchaux, 37, a conceptual artist who is mentioned as a possible Turner Prize contender next year. "Ten years ago, there were so few women. All of a sudden, there are too many to mention, and it's no longer considered extraordinary."
In a sense, of course, the rise of young women as artists merely reflects the growing opportunities for women throughout British society. Yet in the visual arts, even more than in other areas of culture, something special has occurred. British women have long been visible in movies, theater and music as performers, but not as directors, playwrights or composers. In the visual arts, they have now emerged as creators.
 
Movement Spawned At an Art College
This has become possible because contemporary art as a whole in Britain has been transformed by a generational revolution. An exhibition called "Freeze" in London in 1988 is now regarded as the moment the first shots were fired. Organized by Damien Hirst and displaying works by students from Goldsmiths' College in London, the show signaled the determination of young artists to win recognition without waiting for approval by the art Establishment.
Several women were in the show, but ambition, innovation and a certain social rage were more relevant than gender. "Everyone felt it was suddenly possible to take control," said Ms. de Monchaux, who was doing graduate work at Goldsmiths' at the time. "Instead of saying, I'll be an artist when I grow up, they were saying, I'll be an artist right now."
That the movement began at Goldsmiths' was no coincidence. While British art colleges have long enjoyed a reputation for excellence, in the 1980's Goldsmiths' created a single course for students, eliminating the barriers among painting, sculpture, printmaking and the like. Its teachers, notably Michael Craig Martin, also encouraged students to express themselves in new ways. Further, with a higher proportion of working-class students than other London colleges, it fostered irreverence toward tradition.
"I went to a really good art school, which wasn't about gender but about the possibilities of art," said Ms. Wearing, who graduated from Goldsmiths' in 1990. "We learned that no one should tell you what to do; no one should tell you what art should or should not be."
The main obstacle to women as artists, then, was not access -- there have long been as many women as men in British art colleges -- but the prevailing esthetics.
"I went to a quite macho art school in the 1970's, and while everyone was making hulking big sculptures, I was making things out of bits of paper," said Ms. Parker, 41, the oldest of this year's Turner Prize finalists. "At my degree show, someone said, 'It's nice, but it's very feminine.' I said, thank you, taking it as a compliment, but they obviously meant it as an insult."
At the time, British painting was dominated by men, including not only the California-based David Hockney but also more immediately by an all-male group called the London School, so named by a member, R. B. Kitaj, and headed symbolically by Francis Bacon and Lucian Freud. Its other members were Frank Auerbach, Leon Kossoff and Michael Andrews. And they were all figurative artists.
 
Personal Experience Comes to the Fore
But with Goldsmiths' challenging the dominant role of painting and sculpture and dissolving the traditional barriers among disciplines, women found themselves working in a new arena where rules were not written in concrete.
"The development of means of expression that are very much concerned with personal experience provides a platform where women can say something markedly different," said Nicholas Serota, the director of the Tate Gallery. "I think they're more willing to expose themselves and their own vulnerabilities than men."
Thus, while young women who are artists in Britain do not appear to have a feminist agenda, it is possible in some cases, though certainly not all, to recognize their work as having been done by women. "I think it's quite obvious my work is made by a woman, because I have never wanted to make anything that is not ephemeral," Ms. Parker said of her drawings and conceptual art. "But I definitely want to be thought of as an artist first."
Several young women nonetheless do what Ms. Parker calls "in-your-face girl-power art," notably Tracey Emin, 34; Sarah Lucas, 35, and Georgina Starr, 30. Their work is often autobiographical, confessional and sexual. For instance, Ms. Emin, who has turned her experiences of rape, abortions and poverty into her art, created a small tent embroidered with the names of "Everyone I Have Ever Slept With (1963-1995)," as the work is titled.
"People nowadays are more interested today in individual and idiosyncratic thought, and women are so much better at that," Ms. Emin said. "If the cutting edge of contemporary art is diverse mixed media, women are able to see art in more things. Everything women do is art. Men are stuck in the primal thing."
Certainly there are few painters among the new generation of female artists here. One, Jenny Saville, paints huge portraits of fleshy nude women in a style reminiscent of Mr. Freud, while Fiona Rae, a Turner finalist in 1991, is almost alone as an abstract painter.
Most others have opted for assorted mixed-media installations. Mona Hatoum's "Corps Etranger" is a video that records the passage of a tiny camera through her body, accompanied by the sound of a beating heart. Similarly, Ms. Starr and another young woman, Sam Taylor-Wood, are themselves often the subject of their photographs.
Ms. Wearing, whose video work at times involves recording people's confessions (in one recent piece, "10-16," confessions by youths were lip-synced by adults), said she did not believe that her work identified her as a woman, although it was made easier by the fact that she is a woman. "I don't think men would be able to talk to other men and reveal what I can get from them," she said. "Also, I think women are more interested in these areas."
It could even be argued that Ms. Whiteread's references are perhaps domestic, even intimate, in her work, which involves creating solid sculptures of interior spaces, most famously of a two-story house in the East End of London. On the other hand, critics concede that it is often easier to recognize a woman's sensibility in a work, as with Ms. Bulloch's brightly colored furniture sculpture, once it is known that it has been done by a woman.
 
Women in Charge At Many Galleries
Still, it cannot have harmed women that many public art galleries specializing in contemporary works here are now headed by women, among them Julia Peyton-Jones at the Serpentine Gallery, Susan Ferleger Brades at the Hayward, Judith Nesbitt at the Chisenhale, Emma Dexter at the Institute of Contemporary Arts and Catherine Lampert at the Whitechapel Art Gallery. Commercial galleries run by women include Lotta Hammer, Maureen Paley's Interim Art and Sadie Coles's HQ.
"It doesn't matter to me if they're men or women," Ms. Nesbitt said. "But I am not blind to the fact that a lot of the best artists around are women."
Yet if women have finally won recognition as artists, it is also because all young artists have benefited from the "Freeze" revolution, driven as much by esthetics as by their media awareness and self-promotion. Today, many young British artists are celebrities along with movie stars, pop singers and fashionable chefs. And if their work, or their behavior, is shocking, it is all the more likely to appear in the tabloids.
"For the women, the least interesting thing is that they are women," said Louisa Buck, author of "Moving Targets: A User's Guide to British Art Now." "Their work has a high degree of subjectivity. It's very much about existing and living in the late 20th century."
But it also has the freshness of representing a new voice.
"The emergence of women artists has to do with exploring the feminine side of the psyche that has been suppressed for so long and has now come out with a vengeance," Ms. Parker said. "Women have to try so much harder, and that's paying off. They've had an inferiority complex for centuries, and now they're making up for it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Below, Gillian Wearing, winner of this year's Turner Prize for the visual arts, and a scene from her video "Sacha and Mum." (Above, Gillian Wearing; Jonathan Player); Top, Angela Bulloch, a Turner Prize finalist, and above, one of her installations. (Top, Marcella Leith; Marcus Leith/Mark Heathcote); Christine Borland, one of the four finalists, all women, for this year's Turner Prize. (Roman Mensing); "House," a sculpture by Rachel Whiteread, the 1993 winner. (Tate Gallery Publishing); Cornelia Parker, another Turner finalist, and top, her work "Mass (Colder Darker Matter)." (Top, Tate Gallery; Edward Webb)(pg E1); Tracey Emin is among the women using personal experiences in their artworks. This is her "Everyone I Have Ever Slept With (1963-1995)." (Courtesy Jay Jopling, London)(pg. E10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (70%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (70%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: ART; WOMEN; TURNER PRIZE ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); VISUAL ARTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); WOMEN (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (75%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN; WEARING, GILLIAN; PARKER, CORNELIA; BORLAND, CHRISTINE; BULLOCH, ANGELA MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997



651 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases;
Helping a Boy's Heart Grow Stronger

BYLINE: By VICTORIA YOUNG 

 BODY:
As he sits restlessly on the edge of the sofa in his grandmother's living room in Washington Heights, his gangly limbs unemployed, it is easier to picture Alexander Hernandez, 12, speeding around his beloved basketball court than cooped up at home, where he is recovering from open-heart surgery.
Grinning from ear to ear, he showed off the scar, which arched impressively around his left shoulder blade. During a routine checkup in November, Alexander's school nurse detected a heart murmur that demanded immediate investigation. But the Hernandez family, recent immigrants from Venezuela who speak no English, had no health insurance. 
 "I was so scared," his grandmother, Francisca Ortiz, said through a translator. "This was so unexpected for us, and we were very concerned and preoccupied about money. But I went into the school and I was immediately reassured because they said they were going to help me."
The school nurse, Abby Kemp, knew that wading through the city bureaucracy for help could take days, so she contacted the Children's Aid Society, one of seven charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The society swiftly paid $315 for an emergency cardiology examination at Mount Sinai Medical Center the next day.
Alexander is one of about 1,500 students at Intermediate School 218, which opened in 1992 in Washington Heights and is run jointly by the Children's Aid Society and the Board of Education to help a largely poor working immigrant population. The school stays open 16 hours a day, 6 days a week, and has many after-school programs. It also has dental, optical and mental health clinics, as well as the pediatric health center that detected Alexander's heart murmur. In many cases, this is the children's only access to health care.
Alexander's diagnosis was serious: a narrowing of the aorta thatmakes it increasingly difficult for oxygen to be pumped around the body. But the Hernandez family applied for emergency Medicaid, and within 12 days Alexander had lifesaving open-heart surgery.
After only four days in intensive care, he moved back home, although his doctors say a complete recovery will probably take up to a year.
For many families like the Hernandezes, who are barely making ends meet, the Children's Aid Society is a godsend. "This money gives a sense of hope to families when other doors have been closed," explained Judy Suarez, director of mental health for the society.
In the warmth and calm of his grandmother's apartment, Alexander is improving every day. "I was feeling not so fine," he said in faltering English. "But now I'm feeling well. I can stand up and walk, but I'm bored. I'm just looking forward to going back to school."
 
HOW TO HELP
 
Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:
 
BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.
 
CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station, P.O. Box 4100, New York, N.Y. 10261-4100
 
No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 
The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.
 
Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.
 
To delay may mean to forget.
 
Previously recorded -- $2,839,544.73
Recorded Friday -- $38,891.17
 
Total -- $2,878,435.90

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alexander Hernandez, 12, who is recovering from heart surgery, with his father, Victor Hernandez, and grandmother, Francisca Ortiz. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY

ORGANIZATION: CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND CHILDREN (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); FAMILY (89%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); CHILD WELFARE (87%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (77%); CARDIOLOGY (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); MEDICAID (75%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (75%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (75%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (75%); DENTAL INSURANCE (75%); BASKETBALL (72%); PEDIATRICS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); CHARITIES (68%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (66%); 

PERSON: YOUNG, VICTORIA

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997



652 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: John Adair, 84, Anthropologist Who Studied Navajo Culture

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE 

 BODY:
John Adair, an anthropologist who studied the Navajo for decades, was involved in films about and by them and underwent a Navajo healing ceremony in his frail old age, died on Dec. 14 at his home in San Francisco. He was 84.
Dr. Adair, a native of Memphis, worked with the Navajo and also with the Zuni for more than four decades. He wrote about and photographed many aspects of their culture. 
 Among other films, "Southwestern Indian Silversmiths" (1939) includes photography by Dr. Adair and he was a co-producer of "A Weave of Time," the history of a Navajo family, with Susan Fanshel, its director. The film combined text and pictures by Dr. Adair, whose first contact with the family was in the 1930's, with more recent film of the family. "A Weave of Time" had its first major screening at the Margaret Mead Film Festival at the American Museum of Natural History in 1986.
Dr. Adair was also the co-author, with Sol Worth, of the book "Through Navajo Eyes: An Exploration of Film Communication and Anthropology" (1972). It was applauded in a review by the anthropologist Margaret Mead, who called it a "delightful and epoch-making book" in which the authors set out to test the potential of teaching members of another culture to make films. A revised edition was published this year by the University of New Mexico.
In the 1930's Dr. Adair was a founder of the Navajo Arts and Crafts Guild, which gave economic autonomy to Navajo artists. From 1953 to 1960 he was the chief anthropologist on the staff of the Cornell Navajo Field Health Project. The project had headquarters in the Navajo community of Many Farms in Arizona.
Dr. Adair's daughter Margo said that three years ago, when he was becoming increasingly frail, Navajos he knew arranged a lengthy healing ceremony -- in Navajo, "a blessing way" -- in his presence at the request of his other daughter, Nancy.
Clifford R. Barnett, a professor of anthropology at Stanford University who worked with Dr. Adair on the health project, said that holding a healing ceremony for a non-Navajo was "a rare thing."
Dr. Adair received a bachelor's degree from the University of Wisconsin in 1937 and a doctorate from the University of New Mexico, where he studied from 1946 to 1948. He taught anthropology at Cornell early in his career and at San Francisco State University from 1964 to 1978.
He is survived by two daughters, Nancy, of Albion, Calif., and Margo, of San Francisco. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO PRESS (58%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (56%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (56%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (91%); WRITERS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); HISTORY (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); FILM (78%); FAMILY (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); FESTIVALS (73%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); SILVERWARE & HOLLOWARE MFG (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); 

PERSON: ADAIR, JOHN; PACE, ERIC JOHN MAJOR (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997



653 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Pittsburgh of the West Is Made of More Than Steel

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: PUEBLO, Colo.

 BODY:
Once upon a time, a strike by local steelworkers would send economic desperation rippling through this city, the Pittsburgh of the West.
But on a recent morning, as some of Pueblo's 1,000 striking steelworkers walked a picket line outside the CF & I mill here, local notables packed the city's new convention center to hear a health care entrepreneur announce 1,200 new jobs for Pueblo, paying an average salary of $42,000. 
 "These are not hamburger-flipping or minimum wage jobs," said Malik Hasan, the president of Foundation Health Systems, sporting a big red button with the cheery message: "Happy New Jobs! '98."
Pueblo's steel strike, which will be three months old on Jan. 3, highlights how Colorado's Steel City has quietly evolved into the Rockies' latest hot city.
For the first half of this century, CF & I Steel reigned unchallenged as the largest single employer in Colorado. Owned by the Rockefellers at the time, this industrial conglomerate spanned four states -- an empire of iron mines, coal fields, limestone quarries, coking plants, smelters and blast furnaces.
Epic pages of American labor history were written here. Almost a century ago, Samuel Gompers visited Pueblo in his drive to establish the American Federation of Labor. Mary Harris Jones, a labor organizer for the United Mine Workers, came here to assist CF & I coal miners in a 1914 strike that ended with the killing of 5 miners and 13 family members by state militia.
Pueblo's last strike, in 1959, lasted four months and threw the city into a depression. This time, in October and November, the first two months of the strike, Pueblo's retail sales were higher than last year's levels.
"Last time, when nothing came out of those smokestacks, it affected the whole community," recalled Maggie Divelbiss, a longtime resident and executive director of a local arts center. "CF & I just doesn't loom as large as before."
In the 1870's, the original Colorado Fuel and Iron Company literally built this city around its mill that made rails for the railroad. Today, the modern CF & I has tumbled to fourth-largest among private employers in the city. In a measure of the economic diversity, 4,000 people work at a new industrial park located on land that only 15 years ago was prairie.
Part of the boom is a spillover from Colorado's Denver-centered growth. As the state economy has expanded nonstop since 1989, growth has spread north from Denver to Fort Collins and south to Colorado Springs.
Now, the good times have spread farther south, from Colorado Springs to Pueblo, a city of 100,000 people. In the first half of the year, the city registered the fastest growth in employment and retail trade in the state. Until the steelworkers went on strike on Oct. 3, unemployment here was 4 percent -- one-quarter the level of 1983.
In that year, CF & I, under different ownership from today, laid off 60 percent of the steel plant's work force of 5,500.
"It was awful," recalled James E. Spaccamonti, president of the Pueblo Economic Development Corporation, a public-private group. "People lost their homes, parents moved in with grandparents, children moved away. We realized we had to diversify."
With Pueblo's renaissance, the city has started to look less like an aging Rust Belt city and more like a Rocky Mountain boom town. A union town with tightly knit ethnic neighborhoods of Slovaks, Italians and Irish, Pueblo long cherished visits from Democratic Presidents -- including Woodrow Wilson, John F. Kennedy and Bill Clinton. But in recent years, Pueblo joined the West's sharp swing away from Democrats, sending a Republican, Scott McInnis, to Congress, and a Republican-dominated delegation to the state Legislature.
In a city that once had dozens of unions, unions have made no inroads organizing workers at the new industrial park. Here, Pueblo also follows the regional trend. Over the last 15 years, unionization rates of workers fell below 10 percent in nine of the Rocky Mountain states. The only regional holdout is Montana, with a unionization rate of 15 percent.
A century ago, the pride of Pueblo urbanism was a city park dominated by the Mineral Palace, a neo-classic extravaganza featuring statues of King Coal and Queen Silver.
Today, it is Riverwalk, a $25 million environmentally sensitive pedestrian and entertainment district, which will bring greenery and water flowing through 1.5 miles of downtown. When completed, by the end of the decade, Riverwalk will feature bicycle paths, water taxis, an amphitheater and outdoor cafes.
Riverwalk is part of a downtown renewal that will surround the $9 million convention center with a new $2 million children's museum and a new $4 million historical museum.
It may have been Pueblo's new affluence and tight labor market that emboldened the steelworkers to embark on their first strike here since the national steel strike of 1959.
An end to forced overtime, better health benefits and better pensions were the rallying cries in the strike vote. Just like in the old days, the community has held together, showering striking families with everything from store gift certificates to free burritos and loads of firewood.
"Every day I come into this office, there is someone calling from around town, from out of state, asking how to help," said Ernest Hernandez, president of Local 2102 of the United Steelworkers of America. His morale high after the local letter carriers union held a holiday dinner for the strikers, he added, "I'm pretty optimistic that we are winning this fight."
Just as in labor's glory days, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., now John Sweeney, came here, and bellowed in November in a union hall dedicated to Franklin D. Roosevelt, "Failure is not an option."
But, in what was once the strongest union town in the West, a union defeat may be on the horizon.
In early December, with negotiations at a standstill, Oregon Steel Mills, which is based in Portland and owns CF & I, announced that it had hired nonunion workers to fill all but 50 of the slots held by striking workers. The blast furnaces are working again, although their output is reduced.
Over noodles and meatballs at the letter carriers' dinner, one striking family assessed its options.
With $100 a week in her husband's strike benefits not enough to pay the mortgage, Suzan Perryman said she was going back to work teaching cooking at the University of Southern Colorado. Alan, her husband, vowed to sit tight, holding out for the chance to go back to one of the best blue-collar jobs in town -- $16 an hour in the rail plant.
"This has been my job for 22 years, and I'm not prepared to roll over and give it to someone else," said the 45-year-old steelworker, the second generation in his family to work at CF & I. But, as a desultory strike chant of "One day longer" went up in the union cafeteria, his relaxed demeanor seemed to reflect an unspoken confidence in the strong economy outside the walls of CF & I.
"I think there are jobs out there," Mr. Perryman said cautiously. "Look, I'm a survivor. I'm the only New York Jets fan in Pueblo."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Striking steelworkers yesterday taunted nonunion workers who were headed into the CF & I Steel mill in Pueblo, Colo. The strike began in October. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of PUEBLO, Colo.: The economic boom has spread from Denver south to Pueblo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HNT (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (58%); NAICS923130 ADMINISTRATION OF HUMAN RESOURCE PROGRAMS (EXCEPT EDUCATION, PUBLIC HEALTH & VETERANS' AFFAIRS PROGRAMS) (57%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (99%); 

CITY: PUEBLO, CO, USA (99%); DENVER, CO, USA (93%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (90%); FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA; CF&I STEEL CF & I STEEL CORP (58%); HEALTH NET INC (57%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); AFL-CIO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA; CF&I STEEL UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); AFL-CIO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUEBLO (COLO); UNITED STATES (99%); COLORADO, USA (99%); PUEBLO, CO, USA (99%); DENVER, CO, USA (93%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (90%); FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; STRIKES; LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS FACTORY WORKERS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); MINE WORKERS (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); MINIMUM WAGE (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (71%); COAL INDUSTRY (71%); IRON MINING (71%); COAL MINING (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SALES FIGURES (68%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); STONE MINING & QUARRYING (67%); RETAIL SALES (63%); TRENDS (63%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES MALIK M HASAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997



654 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Officials and Developers See A Turnaround for Hartford

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Dec. 23

 BODY:
After years of bad news ranging from insurance company layoffs to the loss of Connecticut's only major league sports team, several development projects have been announced in Hartford in the last month, prompting local officials to say a turnaround has begun.
The projects include a new hotel and parking garage, a $25 million expansion at the Bushnell Memorial Theater, and a $300 million riverfront project being considered by the Phoenix Home Life Mutual Insurance Company. 
 "There's probably been more activity in the last two weeks than there has been in the last two years," Gov. John G. Rowland said at a news conference this week. He and legislative leaders promised to provide state money to help spur the growing interest in Hartford. "We have before us a defining moment for the city of Hartford."
The Governor refused to say how much the state would be willing to spend, but he remarked, "If we were to invest 10 percent of the whole project, that's money well spent."
Hartford was hit especially hard by the recession, with defense-related cuts that hurt the entire Northeast aggravated by thousands of layoffs at the insurance companies that dominate Hartford's economy. Many retail stores have abandoned downtown, including Hartford's last department store in 1993.
Last year, Hartford lost the state's only major league sports team, the Whalers hockey team, which city officials predicted would hurt downtown. It has since been replaced by a minor league team, the Wolfpack.
Mayor Michael Peters said, "In the last 10 years, there hasn't been a crane in the air."
But now, city officials believe Hartford is finally coming out of the recession. The area's unemployment rate has dropped to 4.3 percent in October, compared with 6.7 percent in October 1992, although Hartford's rate remains high, at 9.3 percent, compared with 10.8 percent five years ago.
Office vacancy rates, while still high, are also lower. Class A office space in downtown Hartford had a 15.5 vacancy rate in September, compared with 16.5 percent a year ago, and 18.2 percent in 1995, according to Cushman & Wakefield, the commercial real estate services firm.
With top-level office space both hard to find and expensive in New York City and Boston, some economic development leaders here say that companies are beginning to look toward Hartford.
A Boston-area investment group, Northland Investment Corporation of Newton, Mass., bought a 12-story office building in downtown, called Metro Center One, for $10.75 million. Two or three national hotel chains are looking to build in the Hartford area, said Robert W. Santy, vice president of the Capitol Area Growth Council, a public-private business group working on an economic development plan for the Hartford region.
"It's turning around on paper," said Joel Grieco, a broker with Cushman & Wakefield in Hartford who brokered the Metro Center One deal. "We haven't seen the proof in any real construction yet."
Governor Rowland has formed a task force to help coordinate development efforts in Hartford.
A number of projects are proposed.
*A 300-room hotel and parking garage proposed for Main Street by two developers, Philip Schonberger and Simon Konover.
*A $300 million project proposed for 30 acres by the Phoenix, which may include housing, shops and hotels. Robert Fiondella, chairman and chief executive officer at the Phoenix, said on Tuesday that it was premature to say whether his company would go ahead with the plan, but that he expected a decision soon.
*A $150 million convention center, which might be tied into the Phoenix project.
*A $25 million new building for a second stage and banquet areas at the Bushnell, which received $10 million in state financing.
In addition, The Hutensky Group, a developer based in Hartford, has agreed to buy the struggling Civic Center Mall from Aetna Life & Casualty. The group hopes to attract both new retail and entertainment, including perhaps a movie theater.
Yet at least one Hartford community leader, Elizabeth Horton-Sheff, said that the new projects would help Hartford only if they provided city residents with jobs. Ms. Horton-Sheff, who helped lead a lawsuit that caused the State Supreme Court to order the state to address the segregation in Hartford area schools, also said the state should be spending more money on improving Hartford public schools, which have the poorest test scores in Connecticut.
"It's an illusion to think that simply because we have buildings going up in Hartford that Hartford residents are going to benefit from it," she said.
Brad Hutensky, an owner of the Hutensky Group, said that state and city help will be needed. "One developer cannot single-handedly make a project happen without having the support and cooperation in input from all these groups," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (72%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (72%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (52%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (52%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PHOENIX HOME LIFE MUTUAL INSURANCE CO PHOENIX LIFE INSURANCE CO (72%); NORTHLAND INVESTMENT CORP (61%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (52%); HARTFORD WHALERS (54%); HARTFORD WHALERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHOENIX HOME LIFE MUTUAL INSURANCE CO HARTFORD WHALERS (54%); HARTFORD WHALERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HOTELS AND MOTELS; PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS; BUSHNELL THEATER (HARTFORD) LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); INSURANCE (90%); SPORTS (90%); RECESSION (89%); CITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (87%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (85%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); GOVERNORS (75%); TRENDS (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%); RETAILERS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997



655 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Some Win in Lottery at U.N. Over Dues

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

 BODY:
When the General Assembly agreed last week on what percentage of the United Nations budget each of the organization's 185 members would pay over the next three years, most attention focused on one issue: How much to charge the United States?
But if Washington -- which was unable to persuade the United Nations to lower its longstanding 25 percent assessment, as Congress has been demanding -- was the primary loser, there were some less publicized victories. 
 China, a permanent member of the Security Council and one of the world's largest and fastest-growing economies, managed to keep its dues below 1 percent of the United Nations budget, despite United States' hopes that Beijing could be persuaded to be more generous.
Next year, China, with a 0.90 percent rate, will pay less than Australia, at 1.47 percent; Belgium, at 1.09 percent; Brazil, at 1.51 percent; Canada, at 2.82 percent; Mexico, at 0.94, or Sweden, at 1.09.
The United Nations fiscal year begins on Jan. 1, so the three years in question are 1998, 1999 and 2000. The budget has been set at more than $2.5 billion for the next two years.
Although rates are calculated on a country's share of the world economy, China's large population -- more than 1.2 billion -- works in its favor when per capita income is considered. India, with almost a billion people, also benefits. While China's rate is actually climbing very slightly -- Beijing paid 0.74 percent of the organization's budget in 1997 -- India's dues are falling, to 0.17 percent from 0.31 percent. India hopes to win a permanent Security Council seat if member nations can agree to expand the size of the Council by adding countries from developing nations.
Among other permanent Council members, Russia saw its percentage drop to 2.87 from 4.27. But United Nations officials say the Russians are not happy about this windfall because it reflects the country's dwindling economic power.
The remaining permanent members -- Britain and France -- had mixed results. France's portion of the budget rose slightly, to 6.49 percent from 6.42 percent. Britain's fell, to 5.07 percent from 5.32 percent.
Germany, which is campaigning for a permanent Council seat with American backing, will pay more than either Britain or France, 9.63 percent. Germany's ability to contribute substantially is considered a strong argument in its favor, since permanent Council members shoulder extra burdens, including larger assessments for peacekeeping. Those assessments are separate from regular dues.
Italy, which strongly opposes seats for Germany and Japan without a consideration of its own candidacy, is not a small contributor. Italy's share of the budget rose to 5.39 percent in 1998 from 5.25 percent in 1997. By 2000 it will stand at 5.43 percent.
Among industrial nations, the biggest jump in dues has been for Japan. Charged 15.65 percent last year, it will pay 17.98 of the budget next year, and 20.57 in 2000.
Congress had wanted American payments to drop to 20 percent by 2000, a target the United States is unlikely to hit. United Nations members are unwilling to lower American dues until Congress releases money to pay about $1.3 billion in American debts to the organization for regular budget assessments and peacekeeping. Congressional leaders say there will be at most only a partial payment of back dues until the rate is lowered.
Many American officials say that the United States should not go below 20 percent, because lower assessments could diminish its influence in the organization. Diplomats from other nations fuel this anxiety by saying that the United Nations should be pleased if this happened, just to free the organization from the economic power of one big country.
The big winners this year were some of the world's poorest nations, most of them in the Caribbean, Africa and Asia. For 25 of them, the lowest budget assessment in the organization dropped to 0.001 percent from 0.01 percent -- a reduction of dues to $13,000 from about $130,000 annually.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); INDIA (93%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); FRANCE (90%); JAPAN (79%); ITALY (65%); BELGIUM (56%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (72%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; GREAT BRITAIN; CHINA; RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); INDIA (93%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); FRANCE (90%); JAPAN (79%); ITALY (65%); BELGIUM (56%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); LOTTERIES (74%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997



656 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 3456 words

HEADLINE: DANGEROUS ALLIES: A special report.;
U.S. Helps Mexico's Army Take a Big Anti-Drug Role

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Dec. 27

 BODY:
Hoping to build a new bulwark against the flow of illegal drugs from Latin America, the United States is providing the Mexican military with extensive covert intelligence support and training hundreds of its officers to help shape a network of anti-drug troops around the country, United States and Mexican officials say.
The officials say the assistance has included training, equipment and advice from the Central Intelligence Agency to establish an elite army intelligence unit that has quietly moved to the forefront of Mexico's anti-drug effort, sometimes ahead of a new civilian police force that the United States is also pledged to support. 
 The effort has proceeded despite growing American concern that it may lead to more serious problems of corruption and human rights in one of Mexico's most respected institutions, United States officials say. A new United States intelligence analysis of the military's drug ties, for instance, will cite evidence of extensive penetration of the officer corps, two people who have seen draft versions of the assessment said.
Clinton Administration officials have described the American aid as a stopgap. Echoing Mexico's President, Ernesto Zedillo, they insist that the military's law-enforcement actions will be limited and temporary, helping to disrupt the country's thriving drug trade only until its badly corrupted federal police forces can be overhauled.
But according to many officials, the Pentagon and the C.I.A. have pressed their help partly out of their need to find new tasks after the cold war. They hope to use the aid to expand their roles in the anti-drug campaign in Mexico and to improve their relationships with a secretive, nationalistic neighboring army that has often looked at them with suspicion, the officials said.
"They didn't have anybody to play with on the Mexican end of the drug issue, so they went for the military," a former senior official who was involved in American policy in Mexico said, referring to the Defense Department and the C.I.A. "They knew the risks, but they thought they could control the situation."
Some of those risks have resounded in recent news reports: the jailing of army generals on charges of protecting major drug traffickers; allegations that military officers have been linked to the torture and disappearance of criminal suspects; failures of due process and proper legal procedure by soldiers stepping in for the police.
Other pitfalls have been less apparent. Some officials, for instance, worry that American intelligence officers may face conflicts in trying to build good relationships with Mexican Army officers to sustain the cooperation, and trying to remain watchful of military corruption at the same time.
A few other current and former United States officials date their unease to what they described as a disastrous C.I.A. program in the late 1980's to deploy a Mexican Army strike force against the traffickers. The force was disbanded after several failed operations, one of which resulted in the killing of four Mexican civilians.
Mexico has long stood out in Latin America for the sureness of its civilian control over the military. But American officials said they had been troubled by indications that some officers detailed to the federal police have operated with considerable independence from the judicial authorities. With the Mexican Army searching for new missions, many American officials doubt that it will limit its participation in law enforcement to the two-year deadline that Mr. Zedillo and his aides set last summer.
"The whole thing has snowballed," said a senior American official who, like others, would discuss the matter only on the condition that he not be identified. "We are now seeing two separate anti-drug efforts in Mexico -- one by the military and one under the Attorney General. If I were in the Attorney General's office, I would be asking whether it has gone too far."
To some degree, the policy debate is fueled by old rivalries between American law-enforcement agencies and their intelligence and military counterparts. But the two sides also have some philosophical differences, which center on the question of whether United States support for the military complements or competes with efforts to transform Mexico's crippled criminal-justice system.
"They have basically got to rebuild their entire police force," a senior drug-enforcement official said of the Mexican Government. "You can't do that in a year or two. And the longer the emphasis is put on the military, the longer it is going to take to get the police up and running."
The Pentagon spokesman, Kenneth H. Bacon, disputed the idea that the two directions of American anti-drug aid in Mexico were at cross purposes. "There is no conflict," he said.
James R. Jones, who left Mexico City this summer after serving for four years as the United States Ambassador there, echoed that view, and denied that American officials had encouraged the Mexican military's new role.
"The temporary detailing of military officers to civilian law-enforcement was the Mexicans' and Zedillo's decision -- we had nothing to do with that," Mr. Jones said. "Our efforts to improve the quality and exchange of intelligence information and our training programs for certain military units had nothing to do with their decision."
The C.I.A.'s chief spokesman, Bill Harlow, declined to comment on the agency's activities in Mexico.
 
Past Experience Corruption Seen In Old Program
Despite a widespread belief in the corruption of Mexico's federal and state police, Mexicans and their political leaders have been wary about seeking the help of the military to enforce civilian laws.
In the late 1970's, Mexican officials turned to the army to help drive marijuana and heroin-poppy growers from their sanctuaries in the rugged folds of the western Sierra Madre. Their sweep succeeded in temporarily dislodging the traffickers, and it institutionalized a program in which about 20,000 of the army's 150,000 soldiers are detailed to drug-crop eradication campaigns.
For an army that has relatively little to do in securing the country's borders, the drug eradication program has been a source of pride. Yet even while it avoided police-type activities, the military was shaken during the 1980's and early 1990's by public allegations that some senior officers -- including a former Defense Minister, a Secretary of the Navy and several senior army commanders -- colluded in the drug trade.
After Carlos Salinas de Gortari became President in late 1988, American officials said, they gave relatively little thought to the Mexican Army because of their hopes that at least one of the Government's many police-reform campaigns would succeed. Some also harbored cause for concern in the experience of the Mexican Army strike force created years earlier.
With anti-drug efforts stalled in 1987, American agents developed information that big traffickers were building nearly impenetrable compounds in the countryside. Working with the military, current and former officials said, C.I.A. officers helped form what they envisioned as an elite team of about 50 soldiers that would strike more effectively and operate more securely than the police. Mexican law-enforcement officials were told nothing of the plan, they said.
The team's first operation, against a stronghold of a cocaine smuggler in Sinaloa state, ended with one soldier's capture by a police agent working for the traffickers, two former officials said.
The next foray went considerably worse. On the morning of April 11, 1988, helicopters swung out of the dawn sky near the northern town of Caborca, a sanctuary of a reputed marijuana smuggler.
"The idea was that you could take a well-trained military unit and go in there and boom -- take everybody out," a former official said.
The soldiers did take everyone out, but they did so at what turned out to be a workshop in a residential neighborhood, killing four apprentice welders. Former officials said the Mexican Attorney General at the time, Sergio Garcia Ramirez, was so mystified that he asked whether American agents had carried out the raid themselves.
Eventually, the military issued a terse statement taking responsibility for the attack but not disclosing the C.I.A.'s involvement. After a third, unsuccessful raid on another suspected drug base, the program was shut down for good, the officials said.
 
Zedillo's Effort Military Is Given A Bigger Role
Mexico was near the same point in its political cycle -- the end of a six-year presidential term, a period when corruption has historically flourished among outgoing officials -- when United States officials looked to the military again in 1994.
The idea of greater army support for the police was raised first by American diplomats and again during a visit by the United States Army Chief of Staff, Gen. Gordon Sullivan, current and former American officials said. But at the time, they said, it was rejected by Mexican justice officials.
Mr. Zedillo, who took office on Dec. 1, 1994, has called drug trafficking one of Mexico's most serious problems of national security. United States officials strongly endorsed that view, briefing his aides on such developments as the use of passenger jets to fly cocaine into Mexico from Colombia.
"The military was the only trained, disciplined force that you could use to deal with this situation in the short term," one of Mr. Zedillo's closest aides said. "There was no one else."
Mr. Zedillo first brought army commanders into the redesign of the Government's drug-control strategy. He then authorized them to work with United States officials in an ultimately abortive effort to deploy its aging F-5 fighters to chase drug jets. Finally, he began allowing military officers to replace federal police agents in several border cities plagued by smugglers.
In October 1995, when William J. Perry made the first official visit to Mexico in memory by an American Secretary of Defense, anti-drug aid was at the center of several cooperative ventures he proposed to Mexican military officials, Mexican and United States military officials said.
"You were looking for general ways to engage, military to military," a Pentagon official said. Within months, a first group of young Mexican Army officers were training in anti-drug operations at Fort Bragg, N.C.
Of some 3,000 Mexican soldiers who are expected to have passed through Defense Department training courses by next fall, 328 young officers will have completed special 12- and 13-week programs intended to create a corps of anti-drug specialists. Those trainers are being sent in turn to train air-mobile special forces units that are now stationed at the headquarters of the 12 regions and 40 zones that make up Mexico's military geography.
Defense Department officials said the anti-drug curriculum of the units, called Air-Mobile Special Forces Groups, ranged from air-assault operations and military policing to human rights. The Pentagon has also given Mexico 73 aging UH-1H helicopters to transport those troops.
The helicopters may be used only for anti-drug operations. But Mexican and United States military officials said there was nothing to stop the transfer of American-trained army officers to similar special forces units that might be deployed against leftist insurgents in southern states like Guerrero and Chiapas.
 
C.I.A. Support Special Force Gets Mixed Reviews
American officials said that what is perhaps the most significant United States support for the Mexican military's anti-drug efforts is probably the least visible. It comes, they said, in the training, equipping and operational support of C.I.A. officers for a special force of the army intelligence section called the Center for Anti-Narcotics Investigations.
The unit, comprising some 90 carefully chosen young officers, began to come together about three years ago, officials said. Like the civilian intelligence groups the C.I.A. works with in Mexico, the military anti-drug force is not supposed to be an "action" unit like the group trained by the agency in the 1980's. But it does appear to sometimes take the lead in raids as well as surveillance actions.
Several American officials compared the program to the C.I.A.'s work in Colombia, where the agency has been credited with critical help in the capture of major drug traffickers. A key difference, they noted, has been Mexico's extreme sensitivity to anything involving the C.I.A.
Officials familiar with the operations of the intelligence team said that after a clumsy start -- at one point its agents lost track of an important Bolivian drug broker they had under surveillance because they insisted on asking a superior for instructions rather than simply follow him -- it has emerged as probably the most active of all Mexican anti-drug units.
Officials said the unit played a central part in the pursuit of Amado Carrillo Fuentes, then Mexico's most important trafficker, before he died during plastic surgery last summer. It also worked closely on the investigation of Mr. Carrillo Fuentes's organization after his death, and on a series of raids against the Tijuana-based drug mafia run by the Arellano Felix brothers.
Yet reviews of the unit, which is known by its initials in Spanish as the Cian, have been mixed.
Officials said some Mexican prosecutors have complained privately that the unit's officials have demonstrated spotty notions of the law, at times handing captured suspects over to the civilian authorities without ever gathering evidence to hold them. Some Mexican police investigators have also questioned why -- if the United States is willing to provide the sort of sophisticated surveillance and intelligence-gathering equipment that it is said to have given to the Cian -- it will not offer the same support to new anti-drug units created in the Attorney General's office.
American officials said questions had been raised about the unit's integrity after two of its agents were dismissed this year for what one official described as "unprofessional conduct." Some have also wondered about its independence -- from both Mexican civilians and American intelligence officers.
"It could be a time bomb," a former intelligence official said, "because they have a lot less control over that unit than they think they do."
The Mexican Army's Chief of Staff, Gen. Juan Heriberto Salinas Altes, praised the unit, saying it has gathered important information for both army special-forces troops and the federal police. He denied, however, that the unit has any formal or continuing relationship with the C.I.A.
"There could have been some contact, but it was not any official contact," General Salinas Altes said in an interview, his first since becoming Chief of Staff three years ago.
 
Vulnerability Can the Military Resist Temptation?
For their part, Clinton Administration officials said the closer military relationship that anti-drug cooperation had already paid dividends for the United States. In recent months, they noted, Mexican officials agreed to streamline procedures by which United States drug-surveillance planes are allowed to fly over Mexican airspace, and those by which Coast Guard ships can dock at Mexican ports.
The impact of American support on the Mexican military's anti-drug efforts remains somewhat to be seen. Thus far, Defense Department officials said they knew of no instance in which special forces officers trained in the United States had been sent off on an American-donated helicopter in the pursuit of a drug flight.
But many United States officials said it had already become evident that although the Mexican officer corps may be more resistant to the traffickers' bribes than the police, it faces a more serious threat than most American officials foresaw.
Clinton Administration officials were shocked this year when the army commander installed as the Zedillo government's drug-enforcement chief, Gen. Jesus Gutierrez Rebollo, was arrested for taking bribes from Mr. Carrillo Fuentes, the trafficker. Since then, though, it has become clear that the episode was not an isolated one.
Other high-ranking officers have been implicated in connection with Mr. Carrillo Fuentes's organization, including one retired general who was arrested after the wedding of the trafficker's sister. Several more senior officers have been arrested for their supposed ties to the rival trafficking organization run out of Tijuana by the Arellano Felix brothers; one has been charged with offering $1 million monthly bribes to another army general who serves as the Attorney General's representative there.
Still, United States officials are divided between those who see new proof of the military's vulnerability and those who see evidence of an institution fighting aggressively against temptation. Mexican officials, not surprisingly, side strongly with the latter camp.
"If there is action, there are going to be people hurt," General Salinas Altes said. "We have people killed. We have people wounded. We have people in jail."
General Salinas Altes has himself been a focus of the American scrutiny.
According to officials familiar with American intelligence reports in which the Chief of Staff is mentioned, he first came to the United States' attention after he moved from Baja California in 1988 to head the Ninth Military Region headquarters in the city of Acapulco. There, he spent six years in charge of drug-eradication efforts in Guerrero, the state that is Mexico's leading producer of heroin poppies.
After he became Chief of Staff in December 1994, two American officials said, General Salinas Altes was again briefly a subject of scrutiny when intelligence officials intercepted a drug trafficker's telephone call for a "General Salinas." They described the report as disturbing but unclear.
Most recently, United States officials became concerned again this summer when it emerged that General Salinas Altes and several other senior officers had met with a top lieutenant of Mr. Carrillo Fuentes. According to a military document published in the Mexican magazine Proceso that appears to be notes from the Jan. 14 meeting, the lieutenant, Eduardo Gonzalez Quirarte, said the trafficker had offered essentially to clean up his business -- halting the sale of drugs in Mexico, eschewing violence, helping the economy -- if he was allowed to keep half his fortune and continue operating in peace.
General Salinas Altes was interviewed at his Mexico City offices on the condition that he not be questioned about the allegations against him, but only about the cooperative efforts he oversees as the military's representative to an anti-drug group of senior officials from the two countries.
But in a separate interview, Gen. Tomas Angeles Dauahare, a senior aide to Mexico's Defense Minister, Gen. Enrique Cervantes Aguirre, dismissed the allegations against General Salinas Altes vehemently.
General Angeles confirmed that Mexican military officials had received an unsigned American report forwarded from the Foreign Ministry. After an extensive investigation, in which United States officials did not answer repeated requests for supplementary information, he said, it was found that the guilty officer was in fact a Gen. Javier Salinas Payares, the commander of a military air base, and that he was eventually imprisoned in the case.
Similarly, General Angeles said there was no evidence that General Salinas Altes had acted inappropriately in meeting with Mr. Gonzalez Quirarte, who he said had posed as a young businessman with information about the Carrillo Fuentes mob.
"He spoke about Amado Carrillo," General Angeles said. "He gave information about the drug organization internationally. It was only discovered later that this was Eduardo Gonzalez Quirarte."
General Angeles also strongly denied a claim made by General Gutierrez Rebollo during his trial that Mr. Gonzalez Quirarte had two other meetings and that he paid a $6 million down payment on a promised gratuity of $60 million to Government officials.
"You can be fully certain that had he done that, he would have been arrested because that is bribery," General Angeles said. Referring to General Gutierrez Rebollo, he added, "That is characteristic of his accusations -- the lies, the infamy, the slander."
One current and one former American official said there was credible information that Mr. Gonzalez Quirarte had been to see military officials more than once, and they added that a recent assessment of General Gutierrez Rebollo's testimony concluded that much of it was true.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mexican Army troops preparing to serve as a backup on 50 raids that the federal police made in Tijuana early this month. The United States is providing training and intelligence support to move the Mexican military into the forefront of anti-drug efforts. (Miguel Cervantes)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLICE; ETHICS INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (92%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); ARMIES (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); DUE PROCESS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); ETHICS (74%); TORTURE (74%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997



657 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: Asian Crisis May Take Painful Step From Boardroom to the Factory Floor

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 28

 BODY:
When the history of Asia's deepest crisis in decades is written, the past six months of market panics, escalating international bailouts and the direct use of American taxpayer money to save South Korea's financial system may look like just the first phase of a long and far more painful trauma.
So far the crisis has hovered in what most Asian experts and American officials call the "market phase," as investors fled first from the currencies and stock markets of Thailand and Malaysia, then from Indonesia, and then from South Korea. Their currencies have plummeted 50 or 60 percent, and every day there have been increasingly urgent meetings -- some run out of the White House situation room -- as American officials, their counterparts in foreign capitals and officers of the International Monetary Fund have plotted ways to restore the confidence of investors. 
 So far, they have failed more often than they have succeeded.
Just ahead, many suspect, is a far more painful phase, one that will move the Asian crisis from the trading floor and the boardroom to the factory floor and the street. The bitter medicine ladled out by Washington and the I.M.F. in return for their rescue packages prescribes the closing of failing banks and businesses, and layoffs on a scale that the Asian economies, accustomed to spectacular growth, have not seen in modern times. Last week's second effort to save South Korea, for example, came only after the President-elect, Kim Dae Jung, agreed to abandon the social contract that guaranteed the Government would let no major national enterprise fail.
"We're one or two months away from what could be real trouble -- when the factories close, when the unemployment rates shoot up," said one senior American official involved in the desperate scramble to keep the crisis from seeping out of Southeast Asia. "The hope is that we're doing the right things to make sure this passes as quickly as possible, as it did in Mexico. But there are no guarantees."
The very real possibility of what Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin delicately called "the risk of political and social instability" if South Korea's markets descend into further chaos is what gradually led Mr. Clinton's top advisers to conclude that they had to reverse course in their strategy for dealing with the Asian crisis. In doing so, they have edged in a direction that Mr. Rubin has repeatedly insisted in the past makes him immensely uncomfortable: bailing out private banks and investors, as well as governments.
Until the day before Christmas, Mr. Rubin's official approach to the Asian crisis was to provide policy advice to the stricken countries, but stop short of directly providing loans to South Korea the way Washington did in Mexico, following the collapse of the peso three years ago this week. As the I.M.F. assembled rescue packages for Indonesia in September, and Korea in November, Mr. Rubin limited Washington's financial stake in the rescue efforts to participation in a "second line of defense," which he declared would be tapped only if all other aid was exhausted. That conveyed the symbolism of American commitment to Asia's stability, but allowed the Administration the political cover of arguing that no American cash was at risk.
Now it appears that Mr. Rubin and his deputy, Lawrence H. Summers, who together engineered the successful Mexican bailout, underestimated how the severity of the Asian crisis would require Washington to get involved more deeply. While publicly insisting in recent weeks that the $57 billion program led by the monetary fund should be sufficient, they gradually came to the conclusion that the United States would have to do far more.
"We had reached a moment when it was clear that the markets were not responding to the first program" to stabilize Korea's plummeting currency, a participant in one crucial meeting 10 days ago recalled, "and if we didn't get something together that was better, Kim was going to get buried in the wreckage."
Officials in the Defense and State Departments constantly raised the political risks of economic chaos in South Korea, a country where 37,000 American troops are stationed to deter North Korea from pouring across the border in a last, desperate attempt to save the starving North from slow disintegration. But that discussion, the participant noted, was less intended to "sway the debate than to establish how we could explain to the country why our national security interests are bound up in the economic problem."
The result was a two-pronged strategy whose chances of success may be decided over the next few weeks.
Mr. Rubin has now authorized a loan of $1.7 billion to South Korea in early January, part of a $10 billion package of emergency relief, with the additional contributions coming from other large industrialized nations and the I.M.F.
Treasury officials are calling this just an acceleration of their initial program, but it represents a fundamental shift -- an acknowledgment that the United States must put taxpayer dollars at risk. The money comes from the same source that was used in the Mexico bailout, the Exchange Stabilization Fund, whose transactions require no Congressional approval.
At the same time, the Treasury pressured American banks to speed up their fledgling efforts to renegotiate their loans to South Korea's drowning financial institutions. The hope was that the $10 billion loan would give Korea time, but that the re-scheduling of debt by private banks in the United States, Japan and Europe would actually ease the crisis by giving Korean banks more time to pay back short-term loans that are denominated in dollars. The banks were threatening to default on those debts because Korean companies were going bankrupt -- and because the fall of the South Korean won means that it now takes twice as much local currency to pay back a loan made in dollars than it did at the beginning of the year.
The strategy may ease the immediate crisis. But it has many hidden costs, and it undercuts Mr. Rubin's past efforts to make sure that private investors pay dearly for unwise investments in ill-managed economies.
In an age when governments talk endlessly about deregulation and letting market forces rule, the direct loans from Washington and its allies cut in the other direction.
In the Mexican case, Washington's argument was that the Mexican Government could not be allowed to default on money it borrowed directly from financial institutions around the world. But unlike Mexico, the Korean Government borrowed relatively little. In the Korean case, it is private banks that did the borrowing -- often at the prodding of Korean Government officials -- and so the bailout in this case involves preventing private banks from defaulting.
The distinction is important, because it is politically much more difficult to defend saving private Korean banks than it is to defend saving the democratically elected Government of South Korea.
Jeffrey Garten, the dean of the Yale School of Management and formerly the Undersecretary of Commerce, said it would be "a tough argument to make" before the American public.
Mr. Rubin seemed to acknowledge that last week when he said he "wouldn't spend a nickel to help private investors and private creditors."
"On the other hand, we have an enormous stake in re-establishing financial stability in South Korea," he said. "An inevitable byproduct of that is that investors are going to do better than they would otherwise have done."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LAYOFFS (71%); POLITICS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997



658 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
In Close Race, Rowland Has New Interest In Education

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ 

 BODY:
Gov. John G. Rowland of Connecticut was giving his annual end-of-the-year interview, but he didn't want to talk about the issue that has marked his three years in office: his drive to cut taxes and limit state spending.
What Mr. Rowland had on his mind that morning earlier this month was education, a topic that some might find odd because at the start of the year he wanted to cut Connecticut's higher-education budget by 10 percent. Mr. Rowland said he was now excited about "lifetime learning" -- a program of continuing education that he says responds to the fact that workers can no longer count on a job for life, but will need periodic retraining. 
 With 11 months until the gubernatorial election, Mr. Rowland, a Republican, has begun a metamorphosis from the man who was going to eliminate the income tax into the education Governor. And the change is motivated by a reality that seems to be haunting many of his most recent actions: Mr. Rowland is embroiled in the political fight of his life.
The Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter that handicaps elections, has given Mr. Rowland the unenviable distinction of being the only Republican Governor elected in 1994 whose re-election bid is considered a tossup. While the Quinnipiac College Poll has shown Mr. Rowland's neighbor and fellow Republican, Gov. George E. Pataki of New York, to have a lead of at least 25 percentage points over the leading potential Democratic challengers, the poll has Mr. Rowland in a virtual dead heat with his likely opponent, United States Representative Barbara B. Kennelly.
You would think that Mr. Rowland would have little to worry about. Connecticut has finally emerged from a recession, adding more than 50,000 jobs since he took office. The budget has run a surplus for six years in a row. Growth in state spending has been severely restricted, and Mr. Rowland can boast of enacting more than $1 billion in cuts to income, corporate, inheritance, gasoline and property taxes.
But while Mr. Pataki has scared away his strongest potential challengers, Mr. Rowland has admitted that his race is competitive, with a formidable opponent in the eight-term Congresswoman, a Democrat from one of Connecticut's most esteemed political families. Jennifer Duffy, a political analyst at The Cook Report, remarked, "Looking nationally at the Democrats' recruiting this year, getting Kennelly to run may have been their shining moment."
Mr. Rowland said that Connecticut remains a Democratic state, and he seems to be seeing Mrs. Kennelly's shadow wherever he turns. Earlier this month, the Governor appeared to be looking over his shoulder when he unceremoniously dropped his nominee to head the state police, William T. McGuire, because of allegations that Mr. McGuire had verbally harassed women officers. In the fall, Mr. Rowland abruptly curtailed his support for a $100 million football stadium for the University of Connecticut after Mrs. Kennelly criticized the plan. And Mr. Rowland, who went from abortion foe to supporter of abortion rights in the year before his first campaign for governor in 1990, has perhaps best demonstrated his political dexterity with the way he is dancing around the income tax issue.
Mr. Rowland was elected in 1994 on a pledge to eliminate the state income tax by 2000. He has cut the tax by less than one-third and it remains the single largest source of revenue for the state. In the interview, Mr. Rowland at first blamed Democrats in the Legislature for his failure to cut it more deeply, but then he played down its significance.
"The problem when I came into office was not the income tax," he explained. "It was jobs, and that's why I thought it was important to cut the corporation tax." While cutting the corporation tax took away money that could have meant deeper cuts to the income tax, he maintains that it was a smart decision.
"Reducing the income tax isn't going to do any good if you don't have any jobs," he said, adding that he was not sure whether eliminating the income tax would be a goal in the future.
"Christie Todd Whitman cut taxes 19 times and people didn't notice," Mr. Rowland said, referring to the lesson he learned from the New Jersey Governor's narrow election victory. "You know what the moral is? If you're an incumbent and the economy is bad, you're in trouble. And if you're an incumbent and the economy is good, then it's, 'What have you done for me lately?' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. John G. Rowland of Connecticut has switched issues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES GOVERNORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); POLICE FORCES (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); POLITICS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); TAX LAW (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997



659 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1979 words

HEADLINE: A Master Builder's Mixed Legacy;
Forgotten by the Public, 'Mr. Urban Renewal' Looks Back

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY 

 BODY:
Until early this year, Edward J. Logue served on a local task force grappling with traffic problems in Martha's Vineyard, Mass. There were many meetings peppered with many opinions, and finally, Mr. Logue simply quit.
"They were nice people, and they were doing the right thing, but they were taking too long," said Mr. Logue, who is 76. "The pace was not to my liking." 
 Patience was never Mr. Logue's strongest virtue. As an urban developer vested with enormous power and resources during the 1950's and 60's, Mr. Logue reshaped New Haven and Boston, and he did so in a hurry. He arrived in New York in 1968 to comparisons with Robert Moses, and though Mr. Logue's legacy over 17 years is decidedly uneven, his projects included Roosevelt Island, Rich Stadium in Buffalo and many housing developments.
But it is Charlotte Gardens, one of Mr. Logue's final and most modest projects, that is attracting the most attention today. Built atop a destroyed South Bronx neighborhood, the tract of 90 single-family homes was hailed this month by President Clinton as a national model of inner-city rebirth. Yet Mr. Logue was conspicuously absent during Mr. Clinton's visit. No one called him.
Once one of the most powerful figures in the Northeast, Mr. Logue is largely forgotten by the public. The man once called "Mr. Urban Renewal" now lives on the island of Martha's Vineyard, far away from any city.
"Still alive, right?" inquired Edward I. Koch, who as Mayor in 1978 picked Mr. Logue to rebuild the South Bronx.
Very much so, and still full of strong opinions. As much as anyone, Mr. Logue embodied the urban renewal era of massive Federal housing subsidies that begat massive construction projects. Even as many of those projects have come under criticism, Mr. Logue remains wistful for the time when he says construction of affordable housing was considered a national imperative.
"We're at a low ebb," Mr. Logue said from his small office behind his house. "We have no national housing policy that's worth a damn, in my view."
Louis Winnick, who oversaw urban development grants at the Ford Foundation for 26 years, said, "A Logue could not be in business today." Not only are the large Federal housing subsidies gone, Mr. Winnick said, but the administrative model under which he thrived -- heading a quasi-governmental agency with sweeping powers -- is now mostly abandoned.
"Power has been dispersed and atomized in a hundred directions," said Mr. Winnick, now vice chairman of the private Institute of Public Administration, which deals with urban affairs. "Today, it's nothing but a cat's cradle of regulation."
For more than 30 years, first as development administrator in New Haven in 1954, then in Boston and finally in New York, Mr. Logue held immense power, undertaking dozens of construction and rehabilitation projects financed largely through the Federal Urban Renewal Act. Trained as a lawyer, he read every line of the act, navigating its dense language to learn how to win grants.
In 1960, he took charge of the moribund Boston Redevelopment Authority, demanding and receiving planning powers usually reserved for the City Planning Commission. He also had the power to carry out his plans. He initiated construction in Boston of the 60-acre, $300 million Government Center, designed by I. M. Pei. The project was hailed by The New York Times in 1972 as "one of the most important groups of urban structures in the country." More controversial were his efforts to renovate and build affordable housing in two Boston neighborhoods, Roxbury and Charlestown, where hundreds of families were relocated after often-contentious public forums.
His critics lambasted him as an arrogant administrator who ignored the interests of people in existing neighborhoods -- accusations Mr. Logue still strongly denies.
"I thought he was very ruthless toward cities," said Jane Jacobs, the author of "The Death and Life of Great American Cities" and a longtime Logue critic. "That top-down control, that notion that you sort of wave your wand and do your transformation, and it's going to be wonderful. They don't see a community as a sort of living, changing thing."
But in 1968, Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller recruited Mr. Logue to run the New York State Urban Development Corporation. Created in response to the riots that followed the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., the corporation enjoyed extraordinary powers, including the right to supersede local zoning laws. Mr. Logue was compared to Robert Moses, who had dominated public construction in the New York region for decades.
Mr. Logue said he first understood the depth of Moses's power when he attended a meeting about slum clearance in New York City. Each of the city commissioners, he recalled, sat in small classroom chairs like students.
"And Moses and his guys were sitting behind desks," Mr. Logue said. "That's when I noticed everything was approved."
Mr. Winnick said the comparisons with Moses were partly accurate, though he said Mr. Logue was careful to avoid the indifference that Moses often held for people in the path of his projects. "He had learned the lesson from Moses that you have to be sensitive about the poor and about blacks," Mr. Winnick said. "What he did inherit from Moses was the power urge. In order to do big things, he had to have big power."
Under the auspices of the Urban Development Corporation, Mr. Logue built or started at least 117 housing developments in 49 communities. Some of his projects were typical high-rise public housing complexes, like Jackie Robinson Houses in Brooklyn and Shorter Houses in Coney Island.
But most notably, construction on Roosevelt Island began under his watch. Plans to build on the island, formerly an asylum known as Welfare Island, had sat dormant for 20 years until Mr. Logue cut through the red tape. Designed by Philip Johnson, Roosevelt Island became a self-contained community with housing for people of all incomes.
"I was determined to prove I could get in the city of New York people of different income levels to live harmoniously and send their children to the same schools," Mr. Logue said.
Not all of his efforts at social engineering succeeded. His proposal to build low-income housing in Westchester County met with fierce local opposition, and the project failed. Mr. Logue's fall came in 1975, when the Urban Development Corporation went bankrupt. A freeze on Federal housing subsidies, coupled with banks calling in outstanding loans, left the agency overextended. When Hugh L. Carey won the governorship, Mr. Logue was finished.
 
President's Visit Begins His Comeback
His comeback came in the South Bronx. In 1977, President Jimmy Carter had visited Charlotte Street, pledging to rebuild the neighborhood. To do so, Mr. Koch and Herman Badillo, then Deputy Mayor, hired Mr. Logue in 1978 to lead the South Bronx Development Organization. Accustomed to autonomy, Mr. Logue found his powers vastly curtailed and the pot of Federal housing money almost empty.
"Logue came in very optimistic, and he soon found out the apathy and the heartache the local activist groups were feeling," said Genevieve Brooks, a co-founder of the Mid-Bronx Desperados, one of the early groups pushing for affordable housing in the South Bronx.
Initially, Mr. Badillo said the Carter Administration had promised $1.5 billion to rebuild the South Bronx. But as Mr. Logue began formulating an ambitious rebuilding plan, Mr. Badillo and Mr. Koch said, they met at Mr. Badillo's Riverdale home with a Carter aide, Jack Watson, to discuss the project.
"He said, 'I have some very bad news for you,' " Mr. Koch recalled of Mr. Watson. " 'The President cannot keep his commitment to you on the billion. He doesn't have it to give.' "
Eventually, after the City Board of Estimate rejected a proposal to build a low-income apartment building on Charlotte Street, Mr. Logue started over. He regularly drove up and down the cracked, empty streets of the South Bronx. One day he noticed something.
"I'd see this abandoned five-story walk-up, and the rubble-strewn streets, then I'd see a little three-story house in the middle of this," he recalled. "I saw that homeowner surviving in the worst of conditions. I said if home ownership works in the rest of America, it can work in the South Bronx."
At the time, the South Bronx was dominated by Stanley M. Friedman, the local Democratic leader, and Borough President Stanley Simon, both of whom would later go to prison for corruption. Wary, Mr. Logue said he sought alliances with grass-roots leaders like Ms. Brooks and the Rev. Louis Gigante. Working with them, and using seed money from the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, a nonprofit agency that finances affordable-housing projects, Mr. Logue announced Charlotte Gardens.
"They thought Roosevelt Island was crazy," Mr. Logue said. "I can assure you, they thought Charlotte Gardens was insane."
 
90 Houses Provide Model of Ownership
Accustomed to hiring the best architects, Mr. Logue ordered prefabricated houses from Pennsylvania to save money. On a cold night in 1983, the first two houses came by truck over the George Washington Bridge.
When those two houses went on the market at a subsidized price of $49,500, more than 500 people applied. The last of the 90 houses was completed in 1987.
Roberta Gratz, author of "The Living City," which includes a chapter on rebuilding efforts in the South Bronx, said that for all its positive publicity, Charlotte Gardens is actually a poor model for urban development because of its low density. She credited other grass-roots activists, like Father Gigante and the Banana Kelly Community Development Association, with triggering the construction boom in the South Bronx.
"He's a builder," Ms. Gratz said of Mr. Logue. "Builders are single focus. They're not nurturers of urban neighborhoods."
But the Bronx Borough President, Fernando Ferrer, an early supporter of Charlotte Gardens, said the project was never intended to be a model for later development. It simply proved that home ownership would work in the South Bronx, encouraging the development that followed, he said. Mr. Ferrer also credits Mr. Logue with discovering a new stream of Federal money -- a Federal Housing Authority subsidy previously used only in suburban projects.
"Logue was the architect of proving the model for home ownership," Mr. Ferrer said.
That Charlotte Gardens would eventually be regarded as a dramatic success was not yet evident when Mr. Logue left the South Bronx, partly in frustration, in 1985. His ambitious plans kept falling short, usually for lack of Federal money.
Since Mr. Logue is best known for large-scale projects like Roosevelt Island, it is no small irony that a modest project like Charlotte Gardens -- a "piece of whimsy," Mr. Winnick calls it -- may turn out to be how he is remembered in New York. But Mr. Logue said he was proud that he helped implant the idea of home ownership in the South Bronx.
Since suffering a minor stroke three years ago, Mr. Logue said, he has been in partial retirement. Nonetheless, he said he met recently with officials from a city looking for planning help. He is also culling through his voluminous files with the help of an assistant, preparing to write his autobiography.
He said he lives on Martha's Vineyard mostly as a concession to his wife, Margaret, a retired educator, but he admits he enjoys the tranquillity of island life.
He said he did not worry about his legacy, or how he would be remembered. He said he could return to any of his projects "and be cheerful and not be afraid to go where I've been.
"Down there in New York, do they think I'm up here crying in my beer?" Mr. Logue asked later, incredulous. "I'm having a good time. I have a wonderful family."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Edward J. Logue, a major force in the urban redevelopment of the 1950's and 60's, outside his home in Martha's Vineyard, Mass. Charlotte Gardens in the South Bronx, praised this month by President Clinton, was one of his smaller projects. (Kirsten Elstner for The New York Times); Apartment projects on Roosevelt Island, where Mr. Logue cut through red tape to help create a self-sufficient community. (pg. B1); In May 1980, Edward J. Logue, as head of the South Bronx Development Organization, inspected a blighted neighborhood near Bathgate Avenue and 173d Street. Charlotte Gardens was later completed in another area. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (91%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (91%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (88%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (75%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); ISLANDS & REEFS (68%); FOUNDATIONS (60%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: YARDLEY, JIM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LOGUE, EDWARD J BILL CLINTON (69%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (68%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997



660 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
Hong Kong to Kill Chickens
The Hong Kong government announced that starting today it would kill every chicken in the territory -- more than 1.2 million -- to combat a potentially deadly strain of flu. The virus, which scientists now believe is generally contracted from chickens carrying it, has caused four deaths and left at least eight people seriously ill. A1
 
U.S. Helps Mexican Army In War on Drug Traffickers
Hoping to build a new bulwark against the flow of illegal drugs from Latin America, the United States is providing the Mexican military with extensive covert intelligence support and training hundreds of its officers to help shape a network of anti-drug troops around the country, United States and Mexican officials said. A1 

Link Denied in Mexican Killings
A top official in Mexico's governing party strongly denied any link between the party itself and the leader of a local municipality who has been charged in the killing of 45 people in the southern State of Chiapas. At least 1,500 people have fled several small villages in the area, which they said were being terrorized by local paramilitary members. A10
 
Elections in Kenya
More than nine million Kenyans are expected to vote in one of the most watched elections in Kenya's history. Despite widespread dissatisfaction with the administration of President Daniel arap Moi, he is still favored to win because his 13 challengers remain deeply divided along ethnic lines. A1
 
Egypt Bans Genital Cutting
Egypt's highest court upheld a ban on the genital cutting of girls and women. The decision marks the culmination of years of debate between Government officials and some Islamic conservatives, who contend that the practice is a cultural issue and not a matter for the courts. A3
 
Death Caused by Air Turbulence
A United Airlines flight from Tokyo hit massive air turbulence over the Pacific, killing one woman and injuring dozens of passengers. The Boeing 747 returned to Narita International Airport, 40 miles east of Tokyo, about two hours later. All of the injured, except for nine passengers and a flight attendant, were treated and released. A8
 
Violence Threatens Ulster Talks
Participants in the Northern Ireland peace talks struggled to keep negotiations on track after an imprisoned Protestant and a Catholic man were killed over the weekend. Breakaway groups opposed to the talks took responsibility for the killings. A8
 
Algeria Expects More Attacks
Bracing for a surge in violence before the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, Algerian authorities launched a security crackdown. A3
 
NATIONAL A12-17
 
Clinton Pressing to Sign Up Poor Children for Medicaid
President Clinton will soon order a major effort to locate and sign up millions of children who are eligible for Medicaid but are not enrolled in the program, White House officials said. A1
 
No Deal in Unabom Case
Theodore J. Kaczynski recently offered to plead guilty to Unabom charges in exchange for avoiding the death penalty, a participant in high-level Justice Department proceedings said. The offer was rejected by Attorney General Janet Reno's death penalty review committee, the participant said. A1
 
Islamic Symbol Vandalized
Arabs condemned the desecration on the Ellipse of Washington's first official crescent and star, and the National Park Service police called the vandalism a hate crime. A12
 
Blood Supplies Questioned
Administrators at the National Naval Medical Center have ordered a halt to services at the hospital's blood bank after a report by the Food and Drug Administration questioned the reliability of some blood used for transfusions. The F.D.A. report uncovered clerical errors and cited 126 units of blood that were not properly screened for H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS. A13
 
Dispute Over Pesticides
A year and a half after both houses of Congress unanimously passed comprehensive pesticide legislation, the Environmental Protection Agency faces growing disputes over how aggressively to enforce the law's extensive new safeguards for children's health. A16
 
Terry Sanford Has Cancer
Terry Sanford, the 80-year-old former Governor of North Carolina, United States Senator and president of Duke University, entered Duke University Medical Center in Durham, N.C., yesterday for tests after doctors said he had inoperable cancer of the esophagus and liver. (AP)
 
Storm Damage Set at $6 Million
Stormy weather, including a tornado, that tore through Central Florida early Saturday caused at least $6 million in damage but no deaths, officials said yesterday. Most residents of Haines City and Winter Haven were asleep when the tornado hit, at 4 A.M., destroying 25 homes and damaging perhaps 200 others. About 20 people were injured. (Reuters)
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Illegal Immigrants Face Loss of Some AIDS Help
Illegal immigrants with AIDS who live in New York City have long been able to obtain a range of government benefits usually beyond the reach of illegal residents, including Medicaid. Now, under the sweeping changes to Federal immigration and welfare laws enacted last year, they are about to lose their Medicaid benefits. Moreover, Federal authorities in New York who had once granted temporary legal status to some of those immigrants have begun the lengthy process that could lead to deportation. B1
 
Mixed Reviews for Crew
Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew relishes his authority to hire and supervise district superintendents, saying it will eventually transform the system by banishing politics and establishing a clear chain of command and accountability. But many educators say that Dr. Crew has been slow to use it to address the system's educational failings. B1
 
Police Rule Under Scrutiny
The fact that investigators have not yet interviewed the police officer accused of shooting an unarmed Brooklyn man to death last week has again focused public scrutiny on the little-understood piece of police procedure known as the 48-hour rule, which gives officers two business days before they must answer questions. B3
 
Church Consumed by Fire
A fire engulfed a church in St. Albans, in Queens, before dawn yesterday, destroying the wood-frame building in minutes and leaving six people homeless. B3
 
Barricades Are Ignored
Only a few police officers were at the pedestrian barricades on 49th and 50th Streets, and they seemed all too willing to watch as the new rules for easing traffic through midtown Manhattan were blatantly broken. B3
 
Snake Handler Bitten
A 24-year-old snake handler was bitten by one of the world's most poisonous vipers at a commercial reptile showplace on Long Island. B10
 
NEEDIEST CASES B2
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
Patriots and Buccaneers Win
The Patriots beat the Dolphins, 17-3, in an N.F.L. playoff game, and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers defeated the Lions, 20-10. C1
 
OBITUARIES B8
 
Brendan Gill
A pillar of New York's civic, social and literary life for nearly half a century and a prominent advocate for architectural preservation and other visual arts, he was 83. B8
 
ARTS E1-12
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-10
 
An Anxious Eye on Asia
The Asian economic crisis is about to move out of the "market phase" and into a more painful and challenging phase, many believe, one that will shift from the trading floor and the boardroom to the factory floor and the street. "We're one or two months away from what could be real trouble -- when the factories close, when the unemployment rates shoot up," said a senior American official. A17
 
The yen should not be allowed to weaken further against the dollar, and the Japanese Government is prepared "to intervene if necessary on a scale that will surprise the market," the Vice Finance Minister of Japan, Eisuke Sakakibara, said. A17
 
Long-Distance Competition
German telephone customers are about to have something they have never had before: a choice in long-distance service. And Germany is not alone. Until now, most countries in Europe simply outlawed most phone competition. But this week, the prohibitions disappear. D1
 
A Resistance to Change
Patricia Scott, the executive director of the foundation that operates the Pacifica Radio network, has been ruffling left-wing feathers as she overhauls an operation as proud of its contrarian nature as it is worried about its dwindling audience. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: Behind your soaring cable rates; flaws in the city's campaign law; Tina Rosenberg on a Chilean cult.
 
Columns: Anthony Lewis.
 
Bridge E12
 
Weather B7
Crossword E12

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (93%); ALGERIA (92%); EGYPT (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); 

CITY: ALEXANDRIA, EGYPT (52%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); BOEING CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (93%); ALGERIA (92%); EGYPT (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); ALEXANDRIA, EGYPT (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ELECTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); POULTRY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); MEDICAID (78%); ARMIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (76%); DRUG POLICY (76%); HOMICIDE (73%); INFLUENZA (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); RAMADAN (68%); RELIGION (68%); AIRLINES (67%); AIRPORTS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); PEACE PROCESS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); CHILDREN (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997



661 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: The Soul of a New Economy

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif.

 BODY:
Overflowing the physical boundaries of four counties and the digital limits of three area codes, Silicon Valley is as much a state of mind as a location.
 The area's signature industry was born in a garage here in Palo Alto, where William Hewlett and David Packard built an oscillator for Walt Disney. But the term Silicon Valley was first coined in 1972 by Don Hoeffler, an electronics writer, in his own newsletter. In the generation since, those two words have become a metaphor for a unique engine of innovation that has helped transform the American economy. 
 To appreciate the magic associated with those five syllables, look at the litter of sound-alike clones: Silicon Alley in New York, Silicon Glen in Scotland, Silicon Desert in Arizona. The name of the metal used as the base for the microprocessors that were invented here has become a totem of success, touched with a spark of economic divinity.
 On its way to its current almost mythic status, the area that residents call simply the Valley has had many defining moments. One of these came at a 1982 meeting of the Silicon Valley Computer Club packed with several hundred engineers, many in white shirts with obligatory pocket protectors.
 The I.B.M. PC had only recently been introduced and the Valley was alive with an entrepreneurial fervor, inspired by a hobbyist culture that had become an industry overnight. In an auditorium in the town of Sunnyvale, a writer for The San Jose Mercury News asked the assembled engineers: How many of you plan to start your own companies?
 Two-thirds of those in the room raised their hands.
 The belief that it is only necessary to have a great idea or create a new technology to transform the world has long been a driving force for the engineers, hackers, marketeers and venture capitalists who make up the Valley's rank and file. From these were born corporations that went on to fame, like Apple and Oracle, and others that went bankrupt in a matter of months, like Trilogy and Go.
 Unlike the prospectors who were lured to the Sierra foothills by the promise of gold 125 years ago, these workers are not motivated only by greed. Instead, a passion for computing -- what the writer Ellen Ullman calls the desire to be close to the machine -- underlies the fascination that has spawned a work force legendary for its 90-hour workweeks.
 But beyond that psychic connection there are larger forces at work. Products can age and die here in a matter of months. This brutal pace has been governed by a dictum known as Moore's Law. The law, first depicted by the Intel Corporation's co-founder Gordon Moore, states that the number of transistors on a silicon chip -- and thus the chip's computing power -- will double every 18 months.
 That relentless rate of change has insured the Valley's fecundity: the digital watch, the desktop calculator, the video game, the personal computer and the Internet have taken off in quick succession.
 That, in turn, has meant new changes in a region that once grew 25 percent of the nation's fruit. As chip makers searched the globe for cheap labor during the 1970's, the Valley shifted from manufacturing toward research and development.
 Superheated by the new Internet economy in the past three years, the Valley is now in the midst of its steepest growth ever in everything from jobs to capital investments. Many employees cannot afford to live within its boundaries, and spend hours on clogged freeways trying to get to their work stations. Many others, with stock options to spare, are paying $1 million for converted three-bedroom cottages here.
 The question that remains: How long will it be before the engineers and programmers riding on Moore's Law and living at the hyperspeed of Internet Time burn out?

CORRECTION-DATE: January 1, 1998, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about the symbolic status of Silicon Valley referred incorrectly to the origin of the term for the region. It first appeared in a headline with an article by Don C. Hoefler in Electronic News on Jan. 11, 1971; he did not coin it in 1972.

GRAPHIC: Map of Silicon Valley: "The Land of Chips and Money"
Here is a sampling of the history and highlights of life in Silicon Valley, a 1,500-square-mile region that embraces Santa Clara County and parts of Santa Cruz County in the south, as well as parts of San Mateo and Alameda Counties in the north. The area is home to 2.3 million people and 52,300 businesses, from bicycle shops to the headquarters of Intel, whose market value is now about $115 billion. (Kris Goodfellow and Dona Wong/The New York Times; illustration by Joe Shoulak)
 
Oracle
The offices of the data base company, which were built on San Francisco Bay landfill, are known as the Emerald City.
 
Pacific Athletic Club
The place to sweat.
 
Venture-Capital Center
With residents like Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Sand Hill Road has become synonymous with venture capital.
 
Stanford University
Frederick Terman, Stanford's dean of engineering from 1945 to 1958, saw the university as an incubator for the new electronics industry. Stanford graduates and their ideas have been an integral part of the Valley ever since.
 
Xerox Palo Alto Research Center
At Xerox Parc, the pioneers of the modern personal computer developed basic concepts for products like the computer mouse, window-based displays and local area networks.
 
Hewlett and Packard's Garage
In 1939, the duo invented an oscillator for testing sound quality. The device was first used to produce sound for Walt Disney's "Fantasia."
 
Fairchild Semiconductor
In 1959, the micro-electronics era began with the creation of the integrated circuit.
 
Netscape
The Web browser start-up.
 
Rooster T. Feathers, formerly Andy Capp's
Soon after Atari's Pong was installed, the manager reported it broken. Actually, it was stuffed with quarters.
 
Apple Computer
The campus at One Infinite Loop was constructed to reflect the company's egalitarian values. Now it also houses a latte stand.
 
@Home
Fremont was the first city in the nation to the @Home service, a super-fast Internet connection.
 
Fry's Electronics
The place to buy comuters and all the accoutrements.
 
Eagle Computer Tragedy
Dennis R. Barnhard, the 40-year-old president of Eagle Computer, was killed in a crash as he drove in his Ferrari the day his company went public in 1983.
 
Cisco Systems
Cisco has rocketed to prominence by becoming the premier provider of Internet switches.
 
Intel
Known today for its ads featuring workers cruising around in futuristic suits, Intel invented the microprocessor chip in 1972.
 
Adobe Systems
Founded by two Xerox researchers, this developer of publishing software recently broke the Valley's tradition of low-slung corporate campuses by moving to an 18-story high-rise.
 
I.B.M.
At Big Blue's biggest Silicon Valley factory, the company developed the first computer hard disk drive. The maker of this hard disk drive named it the "Winchester," for the rifle.
 
Graphs: "Better Than Ever?"
With investment money pouring into Silicon Valley, the economy has rebounded from painful cutback in the military-contracting industry. Statistics compiled by Joint Venture, an industry-government research group. Graphs show employment, jobs, venture capital, real estate and quality of life figures for Silicon Valley. (Sources: Joint Venture's Index of Silicon Valley, 1997 report; California Departments of Employment Development and Transportation; Bureau of Labor Statistics; Price Waterhouse; National Association of Home Builders; Santa Clara County Pollution Prevention Program) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); DIS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SCOTLAND (76%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (98%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (84%); WALT DISNEY CO (58%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY (CALIF); CALIFORNIA; ; UNITED STATES (98%); SCOTLAND (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (98%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES NEW ECONOMY (90%); WRITERS (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SEMICONDUCTORS (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); VENTURE CAPITAL (65%); WORK WEEK (60%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN DAVID PACKARD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997



662 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Crude Oil Prices Fall Sharply As Iraqi Shipments Are Seen

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Crude oil prices tumbled yesterday on the New York Mercantile Exchange on signs that Iraq would resume oil exports sooner than expected, contributing to a world supply glut.
On other markets, copper prices fell to a four-year low 
 The decline in crude oil came on expectations that the Secretary General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, would approve a new Iraqi plan to distribute food and medicine bought with the proceeds of limited oil sales.
Iraq, which accounts for 1 percent of world oil supply, halted exports under a previous agreement with the United Nations on Dec. 5. Yesterday, United Nations representatives said that they had received a copy of the Iraqi plan and that Mr. Annan could approve it by the end of the week.
Oil from Iraq would arrive on world markets just as the 11-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which accounts for a third of world supply, prepares to increase its official production target 10 percent, to 27.5 million barrels a day, beginning in January.
"The oversupply will probably get worse" because producers will pump more oil than consumers need at least through the second quarter, said Alan Struth, chief oil economist at the Phillips Petroleum Company in Bartlesville, Okla.
Crude oil for February delivery fell 58 cents, or 3 percent, to $17.62 a barrel -- the biggest one-day percentage decline since Nov. 20 and the lowest for a contract closest to expiration since Feb. 5, 1996. Crude oil is down 32 percent so far this year.
Copper fell 1.5 percent to a four-year low on concern that slumping economies in Asia would reduce demand for goods that contain copper.
"We're starting to feel the effects of South Korea's crisis," said Clive Ramsey, president of U.S. Bronze Powder in Flemington, N.J., a maker of copper-based powders for products that include explosives and hardware. "Our salespeople over there are telling us to expect a few months of slow business before things pick back up."
Copper for delivery in March fell 1.2 cents, to 77.7 cents a pound, on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest closing price since Dec. 9, 1993.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE UNITED NATIONS (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (92%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (92%); FUTURES (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); BASE METALS MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); COPPER MARKETS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); SALES FORCE (76%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997



663 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Moves Mostly Higher As Korea Worries Ease a Bit

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The dollar rose against most currencies yesterday after United States stocks rallied on optimism that South Korea would avert financial collapse.
But the dollar weakened against the yen after a top Japanese foreign-exchange policy maker said Japan would not let its currency depreciate further, a signal that intervention by the central bank to defend the yen might be looming. 
 Traders said much of the dollar's strength was derived from a broad rally on Wall Street on news that major banks had agreed to reschedule debt owed by South Korean companies. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 113.10 points, or 1.5 percent, to 7,792.41. The lender relief for South Korea raised optimism that the nation, the world's 11th-largest economy, would surmount the crisis.
Gains in United States stocks tend to bolster the dollar because global investors buying financial assets need dollars to pay for them. Stocks had suffered in recent weeks amid speculation that economic slowdowns in Asia -- South Korea in particular -- could hurt the earnings of United States corporations.
"The dollar's move is very closely correlated with stocks," said Jonathan Coughtery, an analyst at Standard & Poor's MMS in London. "It's relief-buying this time because a Korean crisis has been avoided."
In late New York trading, the dollar cost 1.7893 marks, up from 1.7725 Friday. The dollar also ended higher against most other European currencies including the British pound, which weakened to $1.6705, from $1.6779.
The dollar cost 129.30 yen, down from 130.41. Traders said the dollar's decline against the yen reflected the impact of remarks on Sunday by Eisuke Sakakibara, the Vice Finance Minister for international affairs, who warned that the Government would "intervene if necessary on a scale that will surprise the market."
The remark was viewed as a strong hint the Bank of Japan might sell dollars to keep the yen from extending its 11 percent slide versus the dollar this year.
"Talk the Bank of Japan will intervene to support the yen is keeping the yen up," said Agostino Floro, a currency trader at Bank Austria in New York.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (91%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AUSTRIA (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BANK OF JAPAN (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (91%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AUSTRIA (51%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); BRITISH POUND (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997



664 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Home Resales Off Last Month After 3 Rises to Record Levels

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 29

 BODY:
Home resales fell two-tenths of 1 percent in November, breaking a string of three months in which they rose to records.
Analysts said the decline was to have been expected. R. Layne Morrill, president of the National Association of Realtors, which reported the data today, said: "Up until November, we had three consecutive phenomenal months. It was a matter of time before we saw some downward trend, however slight. 
 "We expect a continued slowdown in the coming months, though nothing dramatic."
The November decline lowered home resales to an annual pace of 4.38 million. In October, sales increased a revised 1.9 percent, to an annual pace of 4.39 million units.
The figures measure the number of closings on homes, which lag behind contract signings by a few months.
Resales of existing houses make up about 85 percent of all single-family home sales in the country. Demand for houses, new and older, is an indicator of economic activity because the buyers also tend to purchase products like furniture, appliances and garden supplies.
In November, the association said, resales fell 1.6 percent in the Northeast and 2.7 percent in the Midwest. They rose 1.8 percent in the South and were unchanged in the West.
Those who think that the housing market has room to grow cite low interest rates and high employment. Mortgage rates have been falling since April. In November, the average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage fell to 7.21 percent from 7.30 percent the month before, pushing down the average principal and interest payment on a $100,000 loan to $679.47 from $685.57.
The demand for Treasury bonds, notes and bills in response to the economic crisis in Asia has pushed down yields and mortgage rates. Last week, the average rate on a 30-year mortgage fell to 6.99 percent, the first time it had been below 7 percent since February 1996.
The Asian economic weakness is expected to slow the American economy by reducing the demand for exports, but so far job creation has remained strong, giving consumers encouraged by low rates the additional confidence needed to buy a house. The national unemployment rate fell to 4.6 percent in November, the lowest level since October 1973.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (69%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); MIDWEST USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES EXISTING HOME SALES (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (87%); MORTGAGE LOANS (86%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); BONDS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997



665 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: French Jobless Seize Unemployment Offices to Press for $500 Bonus

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 29

 BODY:
In France, where being unemployed has become a full-time occupation for hundreds of thousands of people, jobless demonstrators occupied nine employment offices today to demand year-end bonuses of $500.
About 200 unemployed people also blocked trains at the main station in Marseilles, where unemployment is higher than the 12.5 percent national average, and 40 demonstrators occupied tracks on the main rail line between Paris and Bordeaux at Chatellerault for brief periods today, causing delays of several hours for thousands of travelers. 
 In Chatellerault, demonstrators had been thrown out of the local employment office after occupying it for several days in support of the demand for a year-end bonus. In Marseilles, demonstrators had been refused admittance to the main office of the regional government headquarters in the Mediterranean port.
Protests began there and in the economically bleak north of France last month after the Socialist Government elected in June said it would raise welfare payments by 2 percent this year for 500,000 people whose unemployment benefits had run out.
The increase -- which amounted to about $7.50 a month, bringing the payments to a little over $400 a month -- was described by some demonstrators as "an insult." The Government plans a 1 percent increase next July. Unemployment benefits in France decrease over time and expire, for most people, after two and a half years; the unemployment rate for the last two and a half years has hovered around 12 percent.
Employer groups and the conservative opposition say that high taxes and employer-paid benefits required by law discourage businesses from hiring. This, they say, explains why it is so much harder for people here to find jobs than it is in the United States, where the jobless rate is about a third of what it is in France.
The protesters chose the year-end bonus issue as a way of dramatizing the inability of all recent French governments, Socialist or conservative, to reduce unemployment significantly. Year-end bonuses have long been expected by salaried workers in France and Germany, and another month's pay is something most French workers lucky enough to have jobs take for granted.
The French Minister of Unemployment and Solidarity, Martine Aubry, has urged local officials to be generous in considering applications for additional aid to jobless people in financial distress. But the Government is trying to keep spending down to make sure France qualifies among the European countries that hope to start a common currency in 1999.
Christophe Aguiton, one of the founders of a group of unemployed workers called Act Together Against Unemployment, said, "We shouldn't forget that 80 percent of all the unemployed in France receive less than $500 a month in benefits."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (98%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); GERMANY (75%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; FRANCE (98%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); GERMANY (75%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; BONUSES; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); RIOTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); CURRENCIES (50%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997



666 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
A Korean Company Town Suffers as Steel Mill Fails

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: TANGJIN, South Korea, Dec. 29

 BODY:
In a company town, the common assumption is that the company itself is as solid as bedrock.
In South Korea, company towns became so prevalent in recent years that they recalled a bygone era in the United States. Yet today, big companies are falling bankrupt so fast that the country is littered with towns like this one, devastated by the sudden loss of the local economic engine that provided an area with its identity as well as its livelihood. 
 In Tangjin, a typical Korean town of 40,000 residents, many are still in shock over the collapse of nearby Hanbo Steel, the nation's second-largest steelmaker.
It is an economic disaster, felt by almost everyone here. But on top of that, many residents said they are finding it hard to accept the notion that big companies as a way of life -- in South Korea, conglomerates are credited with fueling the nation's tremendous growth in the last 20 years -- may be a thing of the past.
"No one thinks big companies are infallible anymore," said Kim Jong Kuen, 29, a Hanbo employee wearing a coffee-colored baseball cap. "When I graduated from school, we all wanted to work at a big company. It was about image, a way to impress people."
Image may have been foremost in the minds of many young men who went to work at a big company -- known here by a special term, chaebol -- but they also settled into the high pay, rock-hard job security and professionalism that came along with it. No longer.
Though Hanbo is one of more than 15,000 company bankruptcies this year, and in many ways represents the quintessential chaebol story, it is also a special case. Some South Koreans consider Hanbo and its chairman responsible for triggering the whole financial disaster that has enveloped their country.
When a court began administering Hanbo's affairs, it gradually became clear that its chairman, Chung Tae Soo, had borrowed more than $6 billion, a hefty sum for a company with about $500 million in revenue this year. Investigators determined that Mr. Chung could never have secured the loans without Government help.
The more Hanbo's affairs were exposed, the worse they turned out to be. By June, Mr. Chung was jailed for having brazenly bribed Government officials, customarily hiding stacks of cash inside a crate of apples that his chauffeur would deliver.
On more than one occasion, prosecutors said, Mr. Chung invited an official to dinner at a restaurant and while the two men dined inside, the chauffeur placed the money-laden apple cart in the official's car.
In court receivership, Hanbo still labored to make steel, though construction was halted on the second half of its plant here. But in the autumn, when many Southeast Asian customers canceled orders for steel, Hanbo went from bad to worse.
By November, Hanbo had let go 8,000 workers from its 10,000-member staff, full-time and part-time. Most of the plant now stands idle, though the company continues with a skeleton staff.
The scandal involving Mr. Chung, which enveloped several legislators and the son of President Kim Young Sam, led lawmakers to investigate loan practices and bribery at other big companies, fueling a financial panic and drastically affected lending by banks.
By December, 45 companies were filing for bankruptcy each day. Mr. Chung was sentenced to 15 years in prison for bribery, and on Friday an appeals court upheld his conviction and sentence.
As financial troubles spread all over South Korea, people in Tangjin began to see that Hanbo's troubles were not unique.
"At first I thought it was all the chairman's fault," said Kim Young Shik, 22, a machinery repairman at Hanbo. "But then I started to see that this was how the chaebols did business. Chung was just trying to protect the company. The problem lies in the whole system."
Mr. Kim, who started work here last year in a group of 30 men, said 24 of them had left, disillusioned with the evaporating idea of a stable workplace, which had drawn them in the first place. Yet Mr. Kim, like many others who still work here, expressed a loyal determination to do whatever possible to try to keep Hanbo from closing completely.
"Yes, I feel loyal to Hanbo, even more so now that it is in so much trouble," he said.
Inside Hanbo's cavernous steel plant, eerily quiet at midmorning, a lone executive offered a reporter a seat in a bare conference room.
"I am sorry I can not offer you tea," said the executive, In-Don Hong. "But there is no one here to serve it. We dismissed all those people." Mr. Hong offered the best-case scenario, saying the company would try to produce two million tons of steel in 1998, down from its original projection of five million tons. But there was no way to pretend that things were the same.
"In the past, people came here for a lifetime job," Mr. Hong said. "That's different now. The idea of a lifetime job is gone."
Back in Tangjin, shopkeepers and restaurant owners and pool hall managers all complained that their businesses had suffered drastically.
"I'm the only one left here," said Park Jong Chan, whose restaurant was one of five lined up next to each other on a street, and now the only one open. "That's the only reason I have any business at all."
Beyond the Hanbo plant, Mr. Park pointed out, several other factories in Tangjin have closed down. "Hanbo was just the first," he said.
Though store owners are desperate for customers who still spend money, they, too, are prone to the defensive crouch that many Koreans seem to have adopted, saying that if everyone simply saves more and spends less, the country will emerge from its troubles.
"We have to be frugal," said Oh Hae Ryun, 39, who runs a cosmetics store at the center of town. "If everyone can conserve more and spend less, we'll get through this."
Patting her 11-year-old son's head, Ms. Oh said: "I'm telling my son not to work for a big company. There's no such thing as a lifetime job."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stores, restaurants and other small businesses in Tangjin, South Korea, have been devastated by the failure of the town's biggest employer and economic engine, Hanbo Steel, the country's second-largest steelmaker. (The New York Times/Seth Faison)(pg. D4)
 
Map of South Korea showing location of Tangjin: Merchants in Tangjin complain that their businesses have suffered. (pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: HANBO STEEL CORP HANBO STEEL & GENERAL CONSTRUCTION CO (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: HANBO STEEL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; TANGJIN (SOUTH KOREA); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKRUPTCIES IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997



667 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Surge, Led by Banks; Dow Up 113

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
Stocks in the United States were buoyed yesterday by the news that leading commercial and investment banks were cooperating to avert a short-term financial crisis in South Korea.
Expectations that their efforts will reduce the threat of default on billions of dollars of short-term loans made by American banks to South Korean institutions helped fuel a year-end rally. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 113.10 points, or 1.47 percent, erasing last week's entire 77-point drop in a single session. The Dow closed at 7,792.41.
Banking shares including those of J. P. Morgan, Citicorp, Bankers Trust and Chase Manhattan were among the leading gainers. Shares of Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Company also rose after they and three other investment banks said they would assist South Korea.
Despite the rally, some market analysts were wary that the agreement with the banks had changed South Korea's prospects.
"This happens all the time," said George Salem, a senior vice president and research analyst at Gerard Klauer Mattison in New York. "You get something that looks like a bailout and the market celebrates. But this is a short-term view. The South Korean market is very ill."
In moving bank stocks higher, "what the market is doing today is looking ahead 24 hours at most," he said. "They don't even know the details of the package."
In addition to bank stocks, technology shares rebounded yesterday. Shares of companies that do a lot of business in the region, like Microsoft, Cisco and Dell Computer -- which had been beaten down in recent weeks as each wave of financial distress from Southeast Asia swept American shores -- were higher, lifting the Nasdaq composite index 26.07 points, to 1,537.45, a 1.7 percent gain.
Standard & Poor's 500-company stock index rose 1.8 percent, to 953.35, a 16.89-point gain.
Korea's benchmark stock index rose 6.74 percent in the short session of Saturday trading in anticipation of a pact with banks. The Korean stock market is now closed until this Saturday.
While the news on South Korea heartened American investors, it may have only accelerated a usual year-end rise in stocks. This rally traditionally occurs during the last five days of the year and the first two days of January, said Yale Hirsch, the editor of the Stock Trader's Almanac.
Although the rally does not always occur, the Dow has risen in about 72 percent of the Decembers since 1901, producing an average 1.5 percent gain, according to Birinyi Associates. During the final week of December, the Dow has posted gains about 76 percent of the time as investors scoop up cheap stocks.
Because stocks tend to rally at the end of the year, some investors and analysts played down the impact of a South Korean banking pact. But if South Korea were to stumble deeper into financial crisis, stocks in the United States could tumble, said Charles Pradilla, chief investment strategist at Cowen & Company.
"If they hit the skids, it would have a very negative impact on stocks," he said.
Still, some portfolio managers and analysts remain skeptical of the quick fix.
The latest bailout package, "isn't changing anything about the way I think about things," said Barbara Marcin, a senior equity portfolio manager at Citibank Global Asset Management in New York. "I still think it's going to take a while before things reverse there," said Ms. Marcin, who attributed yesterday's rally to "year-end looking for cheap stocks."
Indeed, Ms. Marcin said she was looking at some technology shares like Applied Materials and health care stocks like the managed-care companies Wellpoint Health Networks and Oxford Health Plans for possible purchase.
And some international portfolio managers are not ready to begin a bargain-hunting spree in South Korea. "It looks cheap," said Stacey Ho, a portfolio manager with Wells Capital Management, but "valuation is never enough."
"The risk is very high. We are still avoiding Korea and Southeast Asia," she said.
 
ON THE WEB
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (78%); ASIA (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (78%); ASIA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (93%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); BONDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997



668 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Looking for an Opposition in Japan

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 29

 BODY:
Japan is in disarray politically and economically, lurching through a financial crisis as its Prime Minister plumbs new depths of unpopularity. So where is the main opposition party in the world's second largest economic power?
Instead of rubbing its hands with glee, it is committing suicide. 
 The New Frontier Party, founded just three years ago, decided over the weekend to disband itself. Its leaders hope to resurrect it with a new name and membership, but the vacuum and chaos in Japan's opposition underscore the frailties of the political structure here.
Despite years of political upheavals and efforts to nurture a two-party system, Japan still has no credible political party to challenge the governing Liberal Democratic Party and keep it on its best behavior. The lack of a two-party system means not only that the opposition is weak, but that the Liberal Democratic Party, seemingly unconcerned with the opposition or with voters, can devote its energies to internal squabbles.
While politicians and scholars agree that the lack of a strong opposition is a fundamental weakness in the Japanese political system, some believe that the latest moves may be a prelude to a political realignment that will finally generate a credible opposition.
"I am trying to bring together several groups to form a new coalition of opposition forces," Naoto Kan, perhaps Japan's most popular politician, said by cellular telephone as he bustled about Tokyo today negotiating with other players in the changing political landscape. "If we can get together, we may be able to establish a new opposition."
Mr. Kan, the head of a small opposition group called the Democratic Party, is enormously popular because of a stint as Health Minister in which he took on the national bureaucracy and won. But his party has never attracted much backing. Now he is trying to recruit some of the New Frontier politicians as well as a couple of other small parties to create a liberal party that could emerge as the main opposition to the Liberal Democrats, or L.D.P., who despite their name are more akin to what in America would be known as conservative Republicans.
"This is another sign of a realignment," Ikuo Kabashima, a political scientist at Tokyo University, said of the New Frontier's breakup. "Whether it's going to be leading toward a strong opposition party against the L.D.P., we'll have to see."
The Liberal Democrats would seem to be vulnerable, if only a credible opposition party could emerge. A poll this month by the Nihon Keizai Shimbun, the leading economic newspaper, found that support for the Government of Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto had dipped to 35 percent, its lowest level since Mr. Hashimoto took office two years ago. Disapproval rose to 45 percent, its highest level yet.
Moreover, at a time when many Japanese are profoundly alarmed by the nation's economic troubles, Mr. Hashimoto has been absorbed by efforts to maintain the peace within his party and the governing coalition. For many Japanese, it is a bit as if they were passengers in a plane with a couple of engine fires and what they hear over the loudspeaker is a fierce argument between the pilot and co-pilot about what to do next.
At this juncture, however, the passengers still seem unwilling to send in the opposition to take over the cockpit. The Nihon Keizai Shimbun poll found that New Frontier had only 5 percent support, less than even the Communists received.
Ichiro Ozawa, who was re-elected head of New Frontier just before he decided to disband it, argued that the party was too broad to be coherent. He hopes to create a new opposition party in early January, smaller but also shorn of factions that had led to internal bickering.
It remains to be seen whether Mr. Ozawa's new party will be smaller and more cohesive or simply smaller and less relevant. The ambiguities surrounding the party are underscored by the contradictory names that are being considered for it. One possible name is the Reform Party, another the Conservative Party.
While most New Frontier members of Parliament will probably join Mr. Ozawa's new party, others are forming other parties or joining other opposition groups. In an odd scene in an advanced democracy, opposition figures are scrambling to figure out what party they should belong to.
Yoshitake Masuhara, a New Frontier leader in Hiroshima, said he would spend New Year's Eve with eight other New Frontier figures from around the country to try to figure out what party to join.
"We've debated a bit, and we still don't know what party we'll enter," Mr. Masuhara said. "We don't even know what parties will appear, and so for now it seems best to take our time and study the situation closely."
Mr. Ozawa and the New Frontier Party attracted widespread sympathy during the last few years from American officials and business executives who saw Mr. Ozawa as Japan's best hope for opening up the economy and restructuring it along more market-friendly lines.
But most Japanese voters do not take Mr. Ozawa seriously as a reformer. They see him as a career operative in a corrupt and broken political machine and doubt that he really would dismantle it.
One of the central uncertainties is whether Mr. Ozawa's new party, whatever it is called, can capture public imagination any better than the New Frontier did.
"The problem hasn't been the name of the party, or even the people in it, but the leader," said John F. Neuffer, a political analyst for a research institute in Tokyo. "Ozawa's not a very popular guy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%); 

COMPANY: NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN INC (51%); NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN EUROPE LTD-FRANKFURT (51%); NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN AMERICA INC (51%); NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN EUROPE LTD (51%); NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN SINGAPORE PTE LTD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (89%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); SUICIDE (57%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D NAOTO KAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997



669 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases;
A More Satisfying Form of Giving

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS 

 BODY:
Call it the tyranny of the holiday season: the tradition of gift-giving at Christmas and Hanukkah fills some people with more dread than joy. It can seem impossible to match each recipient with the perfect gift, and the resulting bills can inspire months of regret.
For many donors to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, charity proved far more satisfying than buying, receiving and returning gifts this holiday season. 
 Instead of accepting a Hanukkah present this year, Jackie Loeb asked her parents to send the money to the fund. "It just seemed like the right thing to do," said Jackie, who lives with her parents in Yorktown Heights, N.Y. Her mother, Pamela, mailed a $36 check with a note extolling Jackie's decision to forgo a gift this year. "Our daughter's choice brings us great joy," she wrote.
Fred and Celeste Burg of Queens gave up exchanging presents in 1974, when Mr. Burg decided that the ritual subverted the meaning of Christmas. "Why give something to someone who doesn't really need it when you can give to someone who does?" asked Mr. Burg, who sent $35 to the fund last week, along with a homemade card. ("I no longer spend money on pretentious cards," he added, "because they're a waste of money.")
Robert and Ilene Ginsberg of Stamford, Conn., stopped exchanging presents more than 35 years ago when the practice became a chore. "After you've been comfortable for so long, it seems frivolous to spend money on gifts that will just sit in the closet," Ms. Ginsberg said.
Charity has long since replaced consumerism for Adele Morgan Green, 77, who made her first donation to the fund as a 9-year-old. "I was quite an overstuffed child, and I didn't know anything about the poor," said Mrs. Green, who grew up on the Upper East Side of Manhattan but now lives in Sarasota, Fla.
Mrs. Green vividly recalls that first year, when she sat on her grandmother's knee and listened as "New York's 100 Neediest Cases" were read aloud from The New York Times. Afterward, she was told to choose a poor family to receive her $5, her total allowance that year. "It was an important lesson in philanthropy," she said. "I guess it's a tradition that stuck."
As usual, Mrs. Green sent the fund a donation this year -- $50 -- and decided to use the occasion to pass on the tradition to her four teen-age grandchildren. She wrote to them: "It occurred to me that the best gifts we could give to each of you would be for you to give gifts to some people who are not as blessed as we are in family, friends and resources. Your grandfather and I take great pleasure in sending a gift in your name to whichever charity you choose to remember this Christmas."
It was 86 years ago that Adolph S. Ochs, then the publisher of The Times, asked a reporter to delve into the files of the city's biggest charities and find the 100 most desperate cases, which were profiled the following Christmas in brief, unsentimentalized articles. That year, $3,630 was raised. So far this year, the fund has received $3.14 million, up from $2.43 million at the same time last year. It will be distributed to seven of New York City's oldest and largest charities. Because The Times pays all administrative costs for the fund, donations go directly to the needy.
With each passing holiday season, Arlene Albert has grown more distressed by the sight of brightly wrapped packages crowding the base of her family's Christmas tree. "I find it upsetting to see such excess," said Ms. Albert, 40, of Astoria, Queens. In years past, she spent more than $1,000 on presents for friends and the 10 members of her extended family.
This year, however, Ms. Albert's angst has intensified for different reasons. Since June, when the marketing company she worked for went out of business, she has been living on unemployment insurance. Her family insisted that she not buy them presents, but she wanted to do something to mark the holidays.
"I decided to make a point about materialism," she said. She contributed $120 to the fund and mailed notes to 12 people to whom she used to give presents, announcing that the donation had been made in their names. Her family and friends, however, may have missed the point.
"Of course, I got gifts from everybody," she said. "Next year, I'll have to write a pre-emptive note, asking people to please refrain from buying me anything."
 
HOW TO HELP
 
Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:
 
BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.
 
CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station, P.O. Box 4100, New York, N.Y. 10261-4100
 
No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 
The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.
 
Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.
 
To delay may mean to forget.
 
Previously recorded $2,878,435.90
Recorded yesterday $267,663.66
 
Total $3,146,099.56

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); HANUKKAH (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); CHARITIES (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); GRANDPARENTS (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (74%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997



670 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Decline Modestly, With the Long Bond at 5.92%

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities slumped in thin trading yesterday, despite a housing report that showed a decline in the sales of existing homes. A rally in stocks and news of more expected help for South Korea weighed on bond prices as investors moved money from the Treasury market into equities.
The price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond declined 9/32 to 102 28/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.92 percent from 5.90 percent Friday. 
 This week is among the market's slowest, noted Ken Logan, a managing analyst with Technical Data in Boston, and yesterday's trading was about half the normal daily volume. "It was a type of session that many in the market anticipated and hoped for as they prepared to put another trading year in the books," he said. "When the new year hits, look for all market eyes to be on the fluid situation in Asia and all ears to be on Fed Chairman Greenspan's Jan. 3 speech to the American Economic Association in Chicago for the market's next directional move."
The National Association of Realtors said yesterday that sales of existing homes fell two-tenths of 1 percent in November, after three months of gains. Although the decline was expected, it suggested that the economy is slowing to a pace that could keep inflation in check and the Federal Reserve from increasing interest rates.
But the bond market was under other pressures yesterday, including the seasonal reality that market participants are not likely to take big positions going into the close of the quarter and the year-end period.
The shaky Asian markets, which have supplied the energy for gains in Treasury securities as investors sought safety, failed to provide much impetus for buying yesterday.
Robert Pugliese, senior vice president and director of the fixed income department at J. W. Charles Securities in Boca Raton, Fla., showed little concern about the decline. "If you had a wish list," he said, "a bond bull couldn't ask for a better scenario than this. When investors come back and reassess the big picture, they will find many compelling reasons to be optimistic about bonds."
Among some of the reasons, Mr. Pugliese cited talk in Washington of a prospective Federal budget surplus, increases in productivity, declining import prices, a strong dollar and stable-to-declining wholesale and consumer prices. "Simply put, an inflation outlook that couldn't look any more favorable," he remarked.
Analysts said the Treasury's weekly bill auction was about average, with the three-month and the six-month maturities selling at identical rates: 5.285 percent. The three-month bill was down from 5.295 percent last week, and the six-month bill down from 5.315 percent. Following are results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three-and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.679	97.343	Discounted Rate	5.28%	5.28%	Coupon Yield	5.42%	5.50%	High Price	98.688	97.350	Discounted Rate	5.25%	5.27%	Coupon Yield	5.39%	5.48%	Low Price	98.678	97.340	Discounted Rate	5.29%	5.29%	Coupon Yield	5.43%	5.51%	Accepted at low price	37%	02%	Total applied for	$33,492,148	$33,796,209	Accepted	$11,088,248	$10,750,220	Noncompetitive	$1,223,523	$1,061,351	
 
Both issues are dated Jan. 2, 1998. The three-month bills mature on April 2, 1998, and the six-month bills mature on July 2, 1998.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (55%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); EXISTING HOME SALES (91%); BONDS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); US DOLLAR (79%); AUCTIONS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); IMPORT PRICES (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); INTEREST RATES (64%); PRODUCTIVITY (64%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997



671 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Guilty Plea in $445,000 Welfare Fraud

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER 

 BODY:
For more than seven years, Jose Rodriguez used at least eight different identities -- some borrowed from dead relatives, others taken from living people without their knowledge, and still others created by him -- to obtain hundreds of thousands of dollars in Government benefits to which he was not entitled, court papers show.
But like many schemes, there were flaws, the authorities said. For example, when Mr. Rodriguez withdrew cash from automated teller machines linked to the accounts of some of those identities, the machines snapped photographs of a single person: himself. 
 Yesterday, Mr. Rodriguez pleaded guilty in Federal District Court in Manhattan to one count of stealing about $445,000 in the scheme, which investigators said they unraveled by tracking the A.T.M. withdrawals and other evidence, court papers show.
Mr. Rodriguez said in court that he had carried out the scheme using false names and fake social security numbers. Prosecutors accused him of setting up bank accounts under the different identities. The benefits were then deposited, sometimes electronically, into the various accounts, from which Mr. Rodriguez withdrew money, often with his A.T.M. card.
Through the scheme, Mr. Rodriguez was able to "finance a comfortable life style in Manhattan and Orlando, Florida," said Edward J. Kuriansky, Commissioner of the New York City Department of Investigation, whose office initiated the investigation last year that led to Mr. Rodriguez's arrest last month.
"Indeed, the defendant was so brazen in his fraud that he allegedly flew to New York on a monthly basis to redeem the food stamps he received under various aliases," Mr. Kuriansky said.
An investigator in Mr. Kuriansky's office said the department began the inquiry after receiving a tip from an informant.
The bulk of the stolen benefits, or about $354,000, came from the United States Social Security Administration's Supplemental Security Income Program for the disabled, said a Federal complaint in the case. Prosecutors also accused Mr. Rodriguez of stealing $64,000 from the Department of Agriculture's Food Stamp program and obtaining $27,000 in illegal rent subsidies under a program run by the New York City Housing Authority.
"I knew I was not entitled to the money, and I knew what I was doing was wrong and unlawful," Mr. Rodriguez, 49, said in court.
Mr. Rodriguez, who has a mustache and wore distinctive red-rimmed eyeglasses in court yesterday, has been unable to raise a $50,000 bond, and is being held pending his sentencing on March 30. The court documents did not indicate that Mr. Rodriguez had tried to disguise himself when he made the cash withdrawals. He spoke clearly in court as he told a Federal magistrate, Henry B. Pitman, that he was pleading guilty.
Magistrate Pitman told Mr. Rodriguez that he faced up to 10 years in prison, that he would be disqualified from receiving future Government benefits, and that restitution would be mandatory.
But it was unclear yesterday just what had happened to the $445,000 that the Government said Mr. Rodriguez had stolen, or whether he would ever be able to repay it.
In court, he was represented by a public defender, Steven M. Statsinger, who declined to comment on the case. An assistant United States attorney, Joseph V. De Marco, would not discuss the money's whereabouts, saying it was confidential grand jury information.
Mr. Rodriguez submitted a financial affidavit to the court describing himself as unemployed. He listed property and cash worth about $3,500, and said he had received several hundred dollars in the past year in Federal disability benefits, though he gave no details of any disability, nor was one evident in court.
Prosecutors asserted that Mr. Rodriguez was able to get the $64,000 in food stamps by obtaining the necessary photo identification cards from the city's Human Resources Administration under each of the eight identities that he used.
The complaint also asserts that in carrying out the scheme to obtain the Federal disability benefits, Mr. Rodriguez used medical documents signed by a physician in Manhattan; the doctor, however, later said the signatures were not his.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: T M I (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; HANDICAPPED; FOOD STAMPS; HOUSING AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); WELFARE FRAUD (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FOOD STAMPS (89%); MAGISTRATES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); SENTENCING (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (76%); LARCENY & THEFT (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); RENTAL PROPERTY (61%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: WEISER, BENJAMIN; RODRIGUEZ, JOSE

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997



672 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
A Year of Awakening

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
By two journalistic tests, 1997 turned out to be one of the most awakening years in my lifetime of newspapering.
Did you report the full story on every important subject you wrote about? 
 No. Early this year I realized that in decades of reporting, writing or assigning stories on human rights, I rarely touched on one of the most important. Political human rights, legal, civil and press rights, emphatically often; but the right to worship where and how God or conscience leads, almost never.
In your belated awareness have you discovered any new and important developments that must be reported consistently?
Yes, two. One is the growing American public awareness of the persecution of Christians and desire to help the victims. They are persecuted in a half-dozen Muslim countries and China. Beijing adds a persecuting specialty -- the unrelenting drive to wipe out free Buddhism in occupied Tibet.
These Americans understand that we are dealing with persecution, not just bigotry or prejudice but persecution -- torture, incarceration, enslavement, abduction, confiscatory fines, mass deportation -- against congregations and clergy.
The crimes charged are to belong to any of the unapproved religions, as in some Muslim countries, or loyalty to the spiritual leader of the nation, as in Tibet. In China, crime is the refusal to attend only government-regulated and -approved "patriotic" Protestant or Catholic churches and risking arrest by worshiping at underground "house churches."
All this is not an incident now and then. It is persecution of scores of millions -- government policy enforced by police terrorism.
What is also new and important is this: The natural desire of American Christians to help persecuted Christians abroad is being mocked and bitterly fought in America. The opposition is not from some fringe anti-Christians but from some Americans of great power and standing, almost all Christian themselves. They include President Clinton, those who serve him to obey him, and the chiefs of America's major companies and trade associations.
At the moment, their particular target is a bill introduced in Congress by Representative Frank Wolf of Virginia and Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, both Republicans. The Freedom From Religious Persecution Act calls for penalties that are mild, but important as signifying American refusal to be a silent witness. They include ending "non-humanitarian" U.S. aid and loans to these countries.
Like the anti-persecution movement itself the bill is backed by members of both parties, and organizations normally far apart, like the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the Christian Coalition.
The range of support is why the lobby against the bill is hysterically harsh, well financed and organized and could defeat it if Americans allow. No mystery about motives.
Mr. Clinton knows the full failure of his promise that he could enrich China economically but somehow sweet-talk Beijing into loosening its strangulation of human rights; a fraud from the beginning. U.S. businesses know that investment in China makes them servants of its war against human rights.
The Administration-business partnership has dredged up some classic pieces of hypocrisy. Most shameful is that opposing persecution would just bring more. Once that was said about the Nazis. Ask the prisoners.
And there is organized nastiness about the anti-persecution coalition's drawing attention to Christians. Why not? They happen to be the largest victim group. And focusing attention on specific victims is the heart of the struggle for human rights. That is what Clintonians do on issues like women's rights that might bring cost-free votes.
America's press has been disappointing. When it does in rare moments pay attention to the persecution, it often misses the point: the suffering. In a recent 5,600-word cover story in The New York Times Magazine, I am sorry to say, only a few hundred touched on that. The rest was how the coalition might split the Republican Party.
But, colleagues of the press, secure in the knowledge that my news judgment about religious human rights is correct at last, and yours still wrong, I wish you a happy new year, and an awakening one.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); TIBET (92%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (71%); XIZANG, CHINA (71%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); TIBET (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (71%); XIZANG, CHINA (71%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); TERRORISM (69%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (68%); DEPORTATION (67%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (67%); LOBBYING (65%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (61%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M BILL CLINTON (72%); FRANK R WOLF (56%); ARLEN SPECTER (56%); BARNEY FRANK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997



673 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 6198 words

HEADLINE: LESSONS LEARNED: Welfare Reform's First Months -- A special report.;
Success, and Frustration, as Welfare Rules Change

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 29

 BODY:
When, at last, President Clinton walked into the Rose Garden on Aug. 22, 1996, to "end welfare as we know it," he brought many dramas to a close: six decades of anti-poverty policy; five years of ideological warfare; a standoff with Congress that had produced two vetoes, and a battle that had split his Cabinet and his party.
He also opened a new chapter in the nation's relationship with its poor. Damp with the morning's oppressive humidity, reaching for his pens, the President urged the fatigued combatants on all sides to pay attention to the experiment's crucial first years. "This is not the end of welfare reform," he said that day and many times later. "This is the beginning." 
 Now, from Sacramento to Albany, 49 states have attached budgets and programs to a vague Federal vision. After an eventful first year, these decisions begin to define what time limits and work requirements really mean, at least in a vibrant economy. Billions of dollars have flowed to states. Two million women and children have left the rolls. And thousands of stories have taken shape, of hard luck and hard-won achievements.
In Wisconsin, Gov. Tommy G. Thompson started the nation's boldest work program, all but eliminating cash aid. In Alabama, a state Representative, Jim Carns, saw the need for services that, as a conservative Republican, he formerly scorned. In Greenville, Miss., Beth Bradford tried to build a bridge between her church and the welfare poor, but surrendered with frustration at the town's racial and class divisions.
After 19 years on welfare in Milwaukee, Marla Spencer not only found a job but kept it. After years of discarding jobs like old socks, Opal Caples lost one more. After losing her check, Theresa Sledge moved to a ramshackle trailer 15 miles from Pensacola, Fla. She is rearing her three children there on food stamps and charity while her husband talks openly of going back to selling drugs. As welfare turns from a right to a rigor, Mrs. Sledge said, "it's either too easy or too hard."
Mr. Clinton's decision to sign the new welfare law has been scoured for what it reveals of his character. Did he sacrifice poor children for political gain? Did he finally find the mix of opportunity and responsibility he had pledged for so long to pursue?
What gives these questions such resonance is that they apply to the country as a whole. To chart the nation's nascent welfare policy is to glimpse the American soul, its caring and its callousness, its fairness and its biases, its competence and its neglect.
As the bill made its passage through Congress last year, its friends and enemies spoke out in homiletic terms. They described how their parents and grandparents had made it in this country. (Or had not. Or could not.) They insisted their communities would care for the poor. (Or had not. Or would not.) They spoke, either explicitly or through the thinnest of veils, of all the dangerous subjects the word "welfare" evokes: race, class and sex. What is taking shape is not just a new program with an ungainly name -- Temporary Assistance for Needy Families -- but a nation's definition of itself.
Perhaps the simplest of all surprises is that welfare really changed. Unlike previous welfare laws, this one was not a paper reform confined to a White House lawn. It set off warning bells from the governor's mansion down to the caseworker's desk. There was some mischief and meanness along the way and some surprising efforts to make a new social contract work. But if welfare changed in head-spinning ways, the problems of most poor, single mothers did not.
"Ending welfare" has a transformative ring: it suggests a world that, for good or ill, is profoundly altered. In real life, welfare came and went in less definitive ways. Without it, some women found low-paying work. Some secretly had it already. Some relied more heavily on boyfriends. Some slipped more desperately into need. To those who lived them, the changes were dramatic. But they may have altered the country's basic dilemmas less radically than commonly supposed.
With welfare and without it, the familiar struggles remained: families in poverty and children without fathers. In the end, it might prove easier than anyone imagined to change welfare, and even harder to change people's lives.
Early appraisals come with a warning: data are scarce; the economy is strong, and most recipients have not yet reached the time limits that will remove them from the rolls. The current snapshot captures a best-case moment. But slowly, tentatively, amid conflicting impressions, some lessons are starting to emerge.
These are among the surprises:
*For better or worse, it is easier than hardly anyone imagined to reduce the welfare rolls. Even modest work requirements appear to produce huge declines in caseloads. That has been the case both in places with good economies, like Wisconsin, and bad ones, like the Mississippi Delta. In some places, anti-welfare rhetoric alone drove caseloads down, before the new programs even took effect. As welfare becomes more demanding, those with other options take them.
*Despite the talk of moving recipients from welfare to work, the early evidence suggests that only about half of those leaving the rolls have jobs. That percentage seems little or no better than in the past, in weaker economies and with less stringent rules. With more people than ever leaving welfare, the raw number of workers is rising. But so is the number of families with neither benefits nor jobs.
*With a few regional exceptions, the job shortage that critics feared has so far failed to materialize. With unemployment at its lowest level in 24 years, entry-level positions are widely available. But wages are typically low, job loss is common and so is part-time work. The earliest surveys suggest that many of those leaving welfare for work still remain in poverty.
*Similarly, the child care shortages that critics feared have largely failed to appear. That is partly because states have made large new investments in child care. And it is partly because many recipients prefer to leave their children with family and friends. But the quality of care remains a concern, in centers and with neighbors alike.
*Even under optimal circumstances, the new laws are claiming casualties. Even before reaching the time limits, tens of thousands of recipients have lost their benefits by failing to meet the new rules, some willfully, some lost in bureaucratic confusion. Many have seen substantial declines in incomes that were already dangerously low. But this increased hardship has not produced the surge of homelessness or abandoned children that critics feared. For a while, most recipients can survive on the patchwork help of family and friends.
*Despite the threat to crack down on deadbeat dads, almost all the burden has remained on the mothers. States remain years behind in implementing child support regulations, and some have resisted the tougher penalties the new law places on fathers in arrears. Likewise, much of last year's debate focused on reducing out-of-wedlock births. But in state welfare offices, the focus was seldom on pregnancy prevention and almost always on work. "We pay too much attention to the mothers and not enough attention to the fathers," said Wendell E. Primus, a top welfare official who resigned last year to protest the new laws.
*The passage of the law has helped moderate the angry politics that brought it about. Congress restored many of the cuts in immigrant programs it had made just a few months earlier, and most state legislatures rejected the harshest options available under the law. On the contrary, some recipients have found themselves lauded in civic campaigns designed to rid welfare of its stigma. In Montgomery, Ala., the NBC affiliate runs a weekly feature portraying a welfare family in a favorable light. "Dump the stereotypes," the correspondent says.
*Although the law was presented as a deep budget cut, it has actually produced a significant increase in per capita welfare spending. Awash in Federal dollars, most states are pairing their tough new rules with offers of new services. Asked whether Congress would have passed a straightforward spending increase, Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., the Florida Republican who sponsored the law, laughed and said, "That wouldn't even have gotten a hearing."
Some promising starts under ideal conditions and some signposts of trouble to come, the early lessons have emerged on three fronts: welfare policy, welfare politics and what might be called welfare civics.
 
Welfare Policy
Caseloads Declining At Startling Rate
Positive or negative, approving or alarmed, every analysis begins with the same startling event: the unprecedented exodus from the rolls. Nearly 1.4 million families have surrendered their checks since the caseloads peaked in March 1994. Almost half of that number occurred in the past year alone.
Surely a job-rich economy is luring families away. Tougher programs are pushing them away. And the drumbeat of anti-welfare rhetoric seems to be scolding them away. Yet the importance of all three forces is difficult to discern, and it varies greatly from place to place. Like a national Rorschach, the graphs that plot a falling caseload evoke a mix of hopes and fears.
"It shows the faith we had in the human spirit was well placed," said Mr. Shaw, the bill's lead author.
"It doesn't show anything yet," said Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat who led the opposition.
It does, however, defy what for decades had been a law of reverse gravity: rolls that went up did not come down. By 1994, the number of welfare recipients peaked at more than 14 million, almost all of them single women and children. The nation's welfare families tripled in the 1960's, nearly doubled in the 1970's, and bulged again after the 1990 recession.
Now the rolls have fallen 27 percent, and the pace continues to accelerate.
The rolls fell 7 percent in 1995, 11 percent in 1996, and at an annual rate of 18 percent in the first half of 1997. Even those numbers understate the average state's pace of change, because California and New York, with a nearly a third of the nation's welfare recipients, have lagged behind the rest of the country.
A national unemployment rate of just 4.6 percent is partly responsible. But there is much that it does not explain. Over the last four years, Minnesota and Wisconsin had virtually the same level of unemployment. But Wisconsin pioneered work requirements and its rolls fell nearly three times as fast.
Work rules have cut the rolls in places like the Mississippi Delta, where unemployment runs high. Even the credible talk of tougher rules can chase recipients away. As Mississippi's plan was moving through the state Legislature, caseloads in Tallahatchie County fell 25 percent. And the county's already high unemployment rate rose higher, to just over 12 percent.
Several lessons seem clear. One is that many people on welfare have other options for supporting themselves. In fact, with welfare benefits themselves too little to live on (the average family of three receives just $380 a month), many secretly had jobs. A second lesson is that when the difficulties of receiving welfare increase, those who can make other arrangements do. "A lot of people leaving the rolls are saying it's just not worth it," said Barry Van Lare, director of the Welfare Information Network, a nonprofit group monitoring the new law.
In trying to move recipients from welfare to work, President Clinton has hoped for more than just economic gain. He has also lauded the "structure, purpose, meaning and dignity that work gives." On the surface, the employment picture is more encouraging than almost anyone expected. Short of labor, employers have turned to welfare recipients, and welfare offices are working hard to supply them. But with wages low and job loss startlingly high, it is still hard to predict what programs will achieve, either in the moral or economic sense.
"I'm struck by how much creativity there's been," said David Butler, associate director of Manpower Demonstration Research, a New York City corporation that evaluates work programs. "But I think it's been assumed if you got a job, things would take care of themselves. I don't think that's been very well thought through."
At their best, work programs have produced triumph like that of Marla Spencer, a longtime Milwaukee recipient. Without the pressure of the new rules, Ms. Spencer said, she would never have found a job. Now she earns $5.95 an hour working in a commercial laundry, and she has married a Milwaukee bus driver. "Do like I did," she tells other recipients. "Listen to your supervisor."
But the journey of Rebekah Phillips, 24, a Pensacola woman with four young children, may be more common. After three years on welfare, Ms. Phillips landed a job at a convenience store and moved up to a $5.25-an-hour job as assistant manager. She was the portrait of self-confidence one evening last May as she stood beside a display of Laffy Taffy and praised the virtues of work.
"When F.D.R. started the welfare program, he did a great thing," Ms. Phillips said. "But now you have whole generations of families breeding other families to rely on Uncle Sam. I don't expect Uncle Sam to take care of me."
But a few months later, she grew depressed and began quarreling with her boss. "They say I quit, I say I got fired," she said last week. She found a second job but lost it two weeks later, and she is once more unemployed. "I was like, 'Hey, I've got this fat job. I'm assistant manager,' " she said. "I didn't even see the brick wall."
Likewise, Opal Caples, a Milwaukee woman, is once more unemployed after appearing on the cover of The New York Times Magazine in August for an article on the challenges that work programs face. "I went through a severe depression," Ms. Caples said last month.
A handful of states have conducted surveys to see how many former recipients have jobs. Few surveys are academically rigorous, but they suggest a similar story.
In Massachusetts, 50 percent of the former recipients said they had jobs. In Idaho, 52 percent. In New Mexico, 56 percent. Tennessee's figure is unpublished, but Haskel Harrison, the researcher who ran the study, said, "It's going to be in the 50 percent range." In Maryland, 49 percent worked in the quarter they left the rolls, though the figure rose three months later, to 66 percent.
Manpower Demonstration Research, the evaluation company, did more careful studies of two experimental programs that began in 1994. In Pensacola, 48 percent of those who left the rolls had jobs. In Minnesota, the figure was 50 percent. In New York, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has declined to track recipients, so there is no way to know how many are getting jobs.
Though the surveys are not definitive, their numbers show little or no improvement over the old welfare era. The most frequently cited study, by LaDonna Pavetti of the Urban Institute, a research group in Washington, found that about 46 percent of those leaving the rolls in the 1980's had jobs.
On the surface, the lack of improvement may seem disappointing. Then again, finding jobs for half of those leaving welfare might be considered an achievement, because more recipients (and more troubled recipients) are being pushed from the rolls. And if former recipients are not working, it is seldom because of a job shortage, the problem that many analysts feared a few years ago.
"I have yet to find a program administrator worried about finding jobs for people," said Ms. Pavetti, who is evaluating programs in 10 states. "They're worried about whether the people will show up."
Some recipients lose jobs because they lack reliable child care. But most states have significantly expanded their child care programs, and many recipients use relatives and neighbors. In Florida, clients have sought help with child care about half as often as officials initially expected. (Shortages do exist across the country for infant and night care.)
Transportation can also be a problem. And it can be a harder one to solve, because jobs often lie beyond public transportation routes.
But the reasons for job loss go far beyond baby sitters and cars. Flagging spirits, fights with supervisors, distractions at home -- the internal struggles like those of Ms. Phillips and Ms. Caples are often the most profund.
Those who manage to keep their jobs might face a different problem, poverty- level wages. Tennessee surveyed 205 recipients who had found jobs. Three months later, only 75 percent were working, and just 48 percent were working full time. Those considered full time averaged 33 hours a week at $5.82 an hour, for a projected annual income of $9,987. That is certainly more than the $2,220 the state paid in cash welfare. But it is below the poverty level of $12,500 for a family of three.
In Maryland, those working were also below the poverty line, with average earnings of $8,300 a year.
The economic picture looks better when other Government benefits are figured in. Federal tax credits now provide low-income workers up to $3,650 a year, and most can also receive food stamps. And supporters of the new law argue that earnings will improve with time. "They certainly weren't going to get out of poverty by staying on welfare," said Robert Rector of the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research institution in Washington.
But to the extent that wages do rise, they tend to do so slowly. And no matter how they are measured, overall earnings remain low.
"I'm concerned about earnings, there's no question about that," said Donna E. Shalala, the Secretary of Health and Human Services. "The whole point of this is to eliminate poverty in the United States, not just to get people off of welfare."
Tougher rules come at a cost. Dropped from the rolls for rules violations, tens of thousands of families have found themselves with neither welfare nor work. In bare cupboards and in cold trailers, their hardships are accumulating. The defenders of the law say that is no surprise.
"You're going to have some who are just not going to be able to make it," said Mr. Shaw, the bill's author. "Welfare reform didn't just present an opportunity. It also presented a certain amount of pain for not being able to take control of your life."
Like other supporters of the law, Mr. Shaw finds reassurance in the absence of the widespread, visible suffering that some critics had predicted -- "children sleeping on the grates," in the words of Senator Moynihan. "That's not happening," Mr. Shaw said.
It is true that in most cases the loss of a welfare check has not led to homelessness or child abandonment. But the extent of increased hardship is noteworthy nonetheless. As Senator Moynihan notes, "You won't know what you've done until the five-year cut-off begins."
The number of families being removed from the rolls varies widely by state. In Tennessee this spring, 28 percent of case closings were due to rules violations. In Maryland, the figure was just 5 percent.
Some who lose their checks actually see their incomes grow. That is, they refuse to comply precisely because they have better alternatives: jobs, boyfriends, hidden sources of support. A recent study in Iowa found that 40 percent of those dropped from the rolls saw their incomes rise. The average gains were sizable: $496 a month.
But another 49 percent saw their incomes fall, by an average of $384 a month. "You'd expect a lot of hardship from a decline that large," said Kathryn Edin, a sociologist at the University of Pennsylvania and an expert on the budgets of single mothers. Counting everything from food stamps to secret jobs, Ms. Edin estimated that the average recipient actually lived on $850 a month. A $384 cut, in other words, represents a 45 percent loss.
Depressed, disdainful or addicted to drugs, some recipients knowingly violate the rules. Others get lost in a bureaucratic shuffle. In Milwaukee earlier this year, as many as 44 percent of the penalties were mistakenly imposed and later overturned. A Tennessee study found that 30 percent of those failing to cooperate did so "without understanding the consequences of their actions."
And, Ms. Shalala warns, some of the families losing welfare are also losing Medicaid, perhaps because caseworkers are failing to inform them of their continuing eligibility. "There are a lot of children who could get it and aren't getting it," she said.
Mr. Rector of the Heritage Foundation said the focus on lost income was misplaced. In the long run, he said, penalties can teach families to function. "Life doesn't treat the clueless very well," he said. "You have to treat them as the real world is going to treat them."
A lost check does lead some recipients to confront their problems. After she was dropped from the rolls last February, Loretta Wright moved to a Milwaukee homeless shelter and stopped using drugs. Then she moved to Minnesota and found a job. "I'm doing great," she said, when reached this month.
But other women are scarred in ways that make them difficult to change. Theresa Sledge, who suffered a childhood of sexual abuse and had her first baby when she was 15, did not conquer her chronic depression when she lost her welfare check. She sold her bed to get extra money and began sleeping with her three children on her trailer floor. "I get so frustrated," she said last week. "I'm afraid I'm going to hurt one of my children."
One of the year's surprises is that so many families could lose their benefits without winding up in the streets. More than 10,000 families have left the rolls in Milwaukee, for instance, but only a few hundred are thought to have moved into shelters.
Again, Ms. Edin's research is instructive. She estimates that cash benefits account for only 34 percent of the average recipient's income. Food stamps provide about 25 percent. And 36 percent comes from hidden sources like under-the-table jobs, boyfriends, contributions from relatives or private charities.
But these other sources of income are less stable than welfare. And they tend to erode with time. "There's a cushion there, but it's not as big of a cushion as they're going to need," said Ms. Edin, who predicts a gradual increase in homelessness. "None of the really hard-edged stuff has even hit yet. I'm surprised there are this many losers this soon."
 
Welfare Politics
With Stricter Rules Comes Moderation
In retrospect, what is striking is not that the welfare system changed so fast, but that it avoided change for so long. Born in the Depression as a plan for widows' relief, Aid to Families with Dependent Children spent its last 25 years in a downward spiral and died a friendless death.
The reasons are understandable. The program did not require work. It did not promote stable families. It often did not seem to help the people it served. But the suddenness of the change, the tone of the rhetoric and the magnitude of the cuts in other anti-poverty programs left an open question. Are the politics of the moment merely anti-welfare? Or are they downright anti-poor?
The answers were mixed this year, as states filled in the Federal template. On the whole, states made surprisingly large investments in work-related services, like job placement, transportation and especially child care. But they also placed severe penalties on recipients who, for whatever reason, failed to comply with the rules. And even in flush times, states began channeling some of their new Federal resources away from the poor and toward causes like tax relief.
"Those of us who worried about a race to the bottom, have we seen that? No," said Bob Greenstein, director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington research and advocacy group. But, Mr. Greenstein added, "we really won't have a full test until we go through the full economic cycle."
The law restricts recipients to five years of Federal benefits in their lifetime (though states can grant extensions to 20 percent of their caseloads). And it requires states to enroll 30 percent of their recipients in work programs in 1998, a rate that grows to 50 percent by 2002. Beyond that, states can do almost anything they choose.
To be sure, virtually every state imposed limits and penalties that would have been unthinkable in the past. At least 20 states have set time limits shorter than five years, and in 10 states it is just two years. In the past, recipients who failed to comply with a work program typically lost a third of their grant. Now in 33 states, they lose all cash support. Idaho passed a law so restrictive it removed half the state's recipients from the rolls in a single day.
But in most places, the harshest proposals met countervailing political pressures. The New York State Legislature rejected a plan by Gov. George E. Pataki to cut benefits by 45 percent over five years. The California Legislature defeated a plan by Gov. Pete Wilson to create time limits as short as one year. Both states wound up combining their new work requirements with expansions of job placement, child care and other services.
"Forcing recipients to work as a condition of receiving benefits, and providing support services, those are the two things that have come together," said Jack Tweedie, who monitors welfare programs for the National Conference of State Legislators.
Perhaps no state better embodies that dual ethic than Wisconsin, which presents both sides in exaggerated form. Certainly its program, Wisconsin Works, is tougher than anything that has preceded it. Those who do not work do not get paid, with virtually no exceptions.
But it also goes further than any previous program to build a work-based safety net. The state is offering subsidized child care not just to welfare recipients but to all low-income workers. It is proposing to do the same with health care. And it is creating thousands of community service jobs.
Governor Thompson, a Republican, came to office 10 years ago on a pledge to cut welfare benefits, a promise he quickly kept. But this year, with the work program in place, he pushed through a 20 percent benefit increase, as if to punctuate a new generosity toward work. "I thought we ought to do anything we can to make this program successful," he said.
Often, the politics of welfare became less ideological this year, as legislators confronted the practical challenges of building work programs.
"I had the typical knee-jerk reaction before I got into all this," said Mr. Carns, the Republican legislator in Alabama. "I thought it'd be easier to save money." Instead, he found himself supporting earnings supplements for recipients who find jobs and child care for teen-age mothers. "You have to put in an investment to get people into the work place," he said.
Mr. Carns's evolving views drew a compliment from State Senator Rodger Mell Smitherman, a Democrat who is the chairman of the Black Caucus in the Alabama Senate. "There's a realization that it's one thing to say you want people to work, but it's another to create the environment for them to do that," Mr. Smitherman said. "I was pleased to see that it wasn't all harsh."
By contrast, the child support debates proved surprisingly contentious, especially in Western states. Many resisted the law's new penalties, like withholding occupational or sporting licenses from fathers in arrears.
Of course, it is easy to make investments in work programs when states are awash in Federal money. The Federal Government will send states nearly $3 billion more this fiscal year than it would have under the old system. That is because Washington now sends states fixed payments, called block grants, based on the welfare population of previous years, before the caseloads plunged.
Wisconsin will spend about 62 percent more for each recipient this year. A full accounting is hard to find, but even the least generous states are probably spending 20 percent more for each client, simply because caseloads have fallen so sharply.
But in an economic downturn, those fiscal dynamics will reverse. It is when states have rising caseloads and falling resources that a "race to the bottom" may ensue. (Were welfare still an entitlement, the cost of rising caseloads would be largely offset by an increase in Federal spending.)
Even in these flush times, states are putting their additional resources to mixed use. New York, for instance, will receive about $730 million more this year than it would have under the old system. But according to a budget analysis by the State Comptroller, Carl McCall, $455 million is being channeled into state and local fiscal relief.
Coasting on their caseload declines, few states are investing in the intensive services their more troubled clients will need, like drug treatment and mental health counseling. Few are setting aside rainy-day money for a slower economy, although everyone agrees rainier days are inevitable. "It's going to get tougher, no doubt," warns Mr. Shaw, the bill's main sponsor.
 
Welfare Civics
Broader Involvement, And Frustration, Too
In explaining his decision to sign the law, Mr. Clinton expressed the hope not just for a more generous politics but something deeper still: a fuller involvement of American society in the lives of the poor, a new welfare civics.
"This becomes everyone's responsibility," he said when he signed the bill. Anyone "who has ever said a disparaging word about the welfare system should now say, 'O.K., that's gone: what is my responsibility to make it better?' "
It was a romantic hope, to be sure, and perhaps a flimsy one. But the past year has brought much of the civic involvement Mr. Clinton had hoped for. Businesses and churches, nonprofit organizations and individuals -- more institutions than ever before have gotten involved in welfare programs. They are running training programs and clothing classes, Bible studies and advertising campaigns. And, much as Mr. Clinton sought, the public portrayals of welfare have begun to change.
Not long ago, voters could turn to C-Span and catch Speaker Newt Gingrich calling welfare recipients a threat "to American civilization." Now, in Charlotte, N.C., they can find billboards sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce urging employers to give welfare recipients a chance.
Those broader community bonds have impressed professionals who know how lonely the work of welfare bureaucracies has been. "That shift, seeing recipients as workers, as fellow citizens, is enormously important," said Olivia Golden, an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services.
But there are limits to what these civic efforts can do. Many volunteers are likely to discover what their predecessors have found in the past: It can be difficult to make a long-term difference in a poor family's life.
It is hard to imagine a more committed volunteer than Ms. Pavetti, the Urban Institute researcher. Fifteen years ago, she began tutoring one of the city's fourth graders, and Ms. Pavetti has stayed with her ever since: when she dropped out of school, when she dropped out of Job Corps, as she cycled in and out of jobs. In some years, Ms. Pavetti saw her friend every day. Then eight months ago, the woman suddenly disappeared.
"I've done an awful lot, but I haven't changed the direction of my lost child's life," Ms. Pavetti said. "I believe mentoring programs work for people who need a little bit of help. They don't work for people who need a lot of help."
The experience of Covenant Presbyterian Church in Greenville, Miss., shows the depths of the challenges a new welfare civics will face. A few years ago, when Gov. Kirk Fordice tried to rally the state's churches -- "God, not government, will be the savior of welfare recipients," he said -- Covenant Presbyterian was the only one in town to respond.
Beth Bradford, the volunteer who coordinated the effort, agreed with Mr. Fordice's idea that faithful citizens could help recipients more than government bureaucracies. Her goal, Ms. Bradford said, was "not just to find them a job, it was to instill in them morals and godly values."
But even the logistics proved hard. Though about 30 women signed up for the program, only a handful came to the first meeting. The church is on the south side of town. The poor live on the north. The church members were all white. The recipients were all black. And most of them had no phones.
Within a few meetings, the number in regular attendance had dwindled to two or three. "It's very discouraging," Ms. Bradford said. "You volunteer your time and nobody shows up."
Ms. Bradford's disappointments increased after she arranged for some of the women to take a course to become nursing assistants. None found jobs in the field.
Still, she redoubled her efforts and took on a second class. But it soon disintegrated into a weekly gripe session among recipients who faulted Ms. Bradford for their failures to find work. "We complained so much they were afraid of us," said Loretta Taylor, who grew so frustrated she used to cry in class.
Ms. Bradford, in turn, grew weary and impatient with the carping. "I finally said, 'Give us a break, we're not miracle workers,' " she said. "We had a little outburst." Ms. Bradford had been pregnant, and when she gave birth to twins, she ended her efforts and no one picked up the slack. "We just kind of fizzled away," she said.
But if the program did not change the welfare situation in Greenville, it did build one new friendship. Among those in the first class was a woman named Jennifer Lockett, who had cycled between welfare and work since she had her first child at 14. She had gone back on welfare after quitting a night job. Without her supervision, Ms. Lockett said, her two children were not doing their homework.
Hearing that story of devoted parenting, "opened my eyes a lot," Ms. Bradford said. "I realized I was the one with all the stereotypes."
Likewise, Ms. Lockett was surprised to find herself relating so easily to a doctor's wife. "I fell in love with her when I first met her," Ms. Lockett said. "She always had an encouraging word."
Ms. Lockett did not find a nursing assistant's job when she finished the program, but she kept mailing out resumes. Months later, an offer arrived, from a doctor who worked with Ms. Bradford's husband. "I jumped up and down, and hollered and screamed, and cried and thanked the Lord," Ms. Lockett said. "I had been praying for this job." Now, a year later, Ms. Lockett is still at work, and she and Ms. Bradford are friends.
Looking back, it is possible to see in Ms. Bradford's experience much of what the President had hoped for 16 months ago: good will, energy, creativity and concern. It is also impossible to miss the distance between her good intentions and her great expectations.
Like most who cross the barriers into the welfare world -- like the nation's experiment as a whole -- Ms. Bradford discovered layers of economic and social need more complex than she had imagined. There was a mix of nostalgia and fatigue in her voice when she said, "It was a reality check for me."
 
Welfare Programs In Region Follow Different Routes
 Plans for overhauling welfare in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, with a mix of tough talk and more practical considerations, have played out in differing ways.
New Jersey preserved benefits for legal immigrants already living in the state. Connecticut hired a private company to handle child care for recipients, but the plan mostly failed. And New York retreated from a variety of ideas.
In Connecticut, a state with one of the strictest time limits, about 950 families were ordered off the rolls last month. But half were granted extensions. Connecticut allowed recipients who found work to keep benefits and earnings for a time. Officials said they hoped one-fifth of the statewide caseload of about 55,000 families would be off the rolls by November 1998.
New Jersey, which cut its caseload by 20 percent from 1994 to 1997, used Federal money for child care programs and an extra year on welfare for some. The state's caseload dropped to 96,000 in 1997 from about 120,000 in 1994.
New York, with the second-largest welfare caseload in the country, continued to drive down the number of people on the rolls through its work programs. In April 1994, the number of families receiving Federal welfare payments was 458,221, dropping to 359,707 in September. But officials conceded they had no idea how many were working, and critics said the state lacked imaginative initiatives for job training and day care.
While promising to end cash payments to single adult welfare recipients after two years, the state enacted a system that pledged to provide vouchers for food and shelter indefinitely to anyone who needed them.
A collection of earlier articles on welfare issues in this series by Jason DeParle can be found in The New York Times on the Web at www.nytimes.com/library/national/deparle-index.html.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Theresa Sledge of Pensacola, Fla., depends on food stamps and charity after losing her welfare benefits. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. A1); SUCCESS STORY -- Pam Griener, 26, of Pensacola, Fla., persuaded her caseworker to send her to school. She graduated in August and took a job in a nursing home. Ms. Griener has three children. "It makes me mad there are people sitting on their butts after I worked and got off," she said. WAITING STILL -- Tatashia Holley, 25, with her daughters Kierre, 2, at right, 1-year-old Tierre in her arms, and her son, Pierre, 5, under a blanket, in the room they share at Ms. Holley's aunt's home in Pensacola, Fla. Ms. Holley dropped from the welfare rolls in 1996. (Photographs by ANDREA MOHIN/The New York Times)(pg. A16); COUNSELOR -- Maggie Montalvo was ordered into New York City's workfare program and became a classroom assistant at a day care center in 1996. Three months ago, she got a job as a children's counselor at a Y.M.C.A. and her welfare case was closed. "It gave me the push to get on my feet," said Ms. Montalvo, 34, a mother of four. (Angel Franco/The New York Times); DOING LAUNDRY -- Marla Spencer, 38, at left, and Arlene Knox, 52, are both employed at a Goodwill Industries commercial laundry in Milwaukee. They work full time for $5.95 an hour. Ms. Spencer married a bus driver and rented a new home. After 19 years on welfare, her suggestion to other recipients is, "Do the work. Get along. Hang in there." (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); 'I CAN HUSTLE'
Denise Riley, 39, of Pensacola, Fla., dropped from the welfare rolls in 1996 and went to work in a pizza parlor in Pensacola. The mother of one child, she has since joined a training program under a Pell grant, while living on housing subsidies and food stamps. "I can hustle pretty good," she said. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. A17)
 
Graphs: "Accross the Country, the Number of Families on Welfare Drops Sharply" shows percentage change in the number of families on welfare from march 1994 to July 1997. (Source: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services)
 
"Families on Welfare" shows average number of families on welfare, from 1960 to 1997. (Source: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services)
 
"Race and Ethnicity Trends" shows race or ethnicity of families on welfare, from 1985 to 1997. (Source: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: PENSACOLA, FL, USA (91%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (91%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); STATES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; CHILD CARE; HOMELESS PERSONS; CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; LABOR; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); CHILDREN (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CHILD POVERTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (66%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (66%); GRANDPARENTS (60%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); TOMMY THOMPSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997



674 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Banks to Let South Korea Delay Loan Repayments
Leading commercial and investment banks have agreed to extend payment deadlines for as much as $15 billion in troubled loans to South Korea. The agreement is an extraordinary show of support for the troubled Korean economy, coming a week after the International Monetary Fund and big industrial countries agreed to speed up the delivery of $10 billion in aid. 
 For the banks, however, the agreement was their only realistic alternative. While they will forgo interest payments on these loans, they faced the prospect of losing much more and perhaps causing a far greater crisis had they had demanded repayment. Page A1.
The dollar rose against most currencies after American stocks rallied on optimism that South Korea would avert financial collapse. But the dollar weakened against the yen on fears that the Japanese central bank might intervene to support the currency. D13.
 
Microsoft Battle Intensifies
The Justice Department accused Microsoft of "jerry-rigging its own products" in response to a Federal judge's order to allow makers of personal computers to license Microsoft's Windows operating system without being forced to also load its Internet browsing software. The comments came in the latest round of the antitrust fight between the Government and Microsoft. D2.
 
Pace of Home Resales Slows
Sales of existing homes fell slightly in November, snapping a string of three months in which sales rose to records, the National Association of Realtors said in a monthly report. Economists said the slowdown was not surprising and reflected the unsustainably high rate of home resales, which make up about 85 percent of all single-family home sales in the country. D2.
 
Bond prices slumped despite the signs of an economic slowdown in the home-sales report. The 30-year Treasury yield rose to 5.92 percent from 5.90 percent. D6.
 
Leap in Computer Storage Capacity
I.B.M. will announce a technical advance that by 2001 will greatly raise the data-storage capacity of magnetic disk drives used in computers. The breakthrough will probably first be seen in ultraslim laptop computers with vast data-storage capabilities. D2.
 
U.S. Sues to Block Alcoa Purchase
The Justice Department sued to prevent the Aluminum Company of America from buying an Alabama mill from Reynolds Metals, contending that the $250 million purchase would give Alcoa too much influence over the aluminum can market and lead to higher prices for consumers. D2.
 
Crude Plunges to 23-Month Low
Crude oil futures tumbled to the lowest level in nearly two years on signs that Iraq would resume exports sooner than expected and add to a global supply glut. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the near-month crude oil contract fell 58 cents, or 3 percent, to $17.62 a barrel. D13.
 
Tyson to Pay $6 Million in Penalties
Tyson Foods agreed to pay $6 million in penalties after pleading guilty to making illegal gifts to former Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy. Under the plea agreeement, Tyson Foodswill not be barred from selling its poultry products to the military or to school lunch programs. A15
 
Why You Have Time to Read This
With Christmas and New Year's Day both falling on a Thursday, productivity appears to be suffering at the workplace. The slowdown has touched companies everywhere, from the Midwest to the West Coast, though many seem reluctant to admit it, saying that business is always slow this time of year. A1.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,792.41 up 113.10
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.92% up 0.02
The Dollar -- 129.30 down 1.11
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows consumer confidence from June to November.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (83%); AAI (ASX) (81%); AA (NYSE) (81%); TSN (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (81%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (81%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (50%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (50%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (50%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (50%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (83%); ALCOA INC (81%); TYSON FOODS INC (50%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REAL ESTATE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (88%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (86%); BOND MARKETS (86%); CENTRAL BANKS (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); BONDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (74%); FUTURES (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); METALS MARKETS (68%); COMMODITIES TRADING (68%); COMPUTER MAKERS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); ENERGY MARKETS (68%); METAL CAN MFG (67%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (65%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (64%); BASE METALS MARKETS (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997



675 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1664 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
LENDERS TO ALLOW KOREANS TO DELAY DEBT REPAYMENTS

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
In an effort reflecting South Korea's global importance, the world's most influential commercial and investment banks -- working with the regulators that oversee them -- gave the country's borrowers a one-month reprieve yesterday on up to $15 billion of troubled loans due by the end of the year.
The agreement, which essentially bent the rules for large borrowers near default, was the only realistic alternative for these banks. They would have faced the prospect of losing much more and perhaps causing a far greater crisis had they demanded repayment. 
 Their decision followed moves by the International Monetary Fund and other lending institutions last week to provide $10 billion in accelerated aid to the beleaguered country.
There was no reaction in the South Korean stock market, closed until Saturday for a year-end holiday. But the news contributed to a stock rally in the United States, where the Dow Jones average rose 113.10 points, or 1.5 percent, on optimism that the Asian crisis will be contained.
Although South Korea is the 11th-largest economy in the world and is considered a bulwark against security threats posed by North Korea, more than the fate of that one country is at stake. Japan's economy is ailing and all lenders, particularly the Japanese, are looking past South Korea and assessing the impact corporate defaults there eventually might have on Japan -- South Korea's single largest creditor and the world's second-largest economy.
The latest rescue efforts were also aided by South Korean legislators' decision yesterday to pass major financial changes pushed by the I.M.F.
The changes include deregulating interest rates, opening up the country's markets to foreign investors, and, effective two years from now, forbidding subsidiaries of the country's giant conglomerates to finance one another's activities. South Korea also consolidated financial supervision under the auspices of one regulator, a move intended to appease critics of a lax regulatory system.
To allay concerns among South Koreans that the economic crisis would result in huge layoffs, the legislature declined to pass a law that would have made it easier for banks there to dismiss workers. That could prove to be a sticking point between South Korea and the I.M.F., which had sought such a change.
In the United States, about a dozen American commercial and investment banks met yesterday morning with Federal Reserve officials in New York, then reconvened with international counterparts later in the afternoon at the headquarters of J. P. Morgan & Company. J. P. Morgan is one of the largest American banks and is coordinating the response of financial services firms to the South Korean crisis.
The banks have agreed to roll over $10 billion to $15 billion in loans and other financial contracts until the end of January.
After that, the troubled debt will be repackaged as bonds, guaranteed by the South Korean Government, that commercial and investment banks will purchase and either hold or resell, according to American commercial bankers.
"From what we understand, this process is proceeding in a constructive way," said Lawrence H. Summers, the Deputy Treasury Secretary. "It reflects the general awareness in the financial community of the importance of financial institutions' taking responsibility with respect to Korea's financial problems. Going forward, there will be a great deal of work to do."
But discussions of how to repackage the loans are unwieldy because lenders have different needs and are owed debt with varying due dates. Bankers said South Korea had about $40 billion in short-term debt maturing by March 31.
"I think there's a certain spin on this in Washington that this is under control," said a senior commercial banker. "We've been at this a grand total of two and a half workdays. Generally, the trading world is not around during the holidays and you can't do a bond execution after Dec. 15. There wasn't any great game plan here until today."
World regulators are concerned that South Korea's own lenders not use the enormous rescue operation as an opportunity to rid themselves of bad loans. Repackaging these loans as bonds is seen as a mechanism that would shift the risk of nonpayment to investors willing to buy them and away from taxpayers. But the main reason for repackaging the loans as bonds is to convert short-term debt into long-term debt. That would ease South Korea's cash shortage by easing the pressure for enormous amounts of money needed to pay loans coming due soon.
The South Korean Government announced yesterday that its external debt at the end of November totaled $156.9 billion, with $92.2 billion of that in short-term debt due to repaid by the end of 1998. South Korea said external debt as of Dec. 20 totaled $153 billion, compared with $160.7 billion owed at the end of last year. There are a variety of ways to calculate the debt, however, but American bankers said they were comfortable with the figures.
The exact breakdown of how much South Korea owes to whom is unclear because the information is partial and some is outdated. Moody's Investors Services Inc. figures suggest Japanese lenders hold about 40 percent of South Korea's total external debt, while West European lenders hold 45 percent and United States lenders hold about 15 percent.
The extended due dates on the loans buy South Korea and its lenders time, but do not guarantee that the economic crisis has been contained. Ideally, the relief will enable South Korean businesses to revive and begin repaying loans while regulatory and lending practices in the country are overhauled.
But the economy could continue to stall and it may not rebound quickly enough to prevent defaults -- despite the global rescue effort.
"The only reason the banks are rolling over the short-term debt is because they know if they call it, the loans will default," said David Durrant, an analyst with I.D.E.A., an advisory firm in New York. "The banks can generate great headlines about their grand gesture, but they're bailing themselves out first because they have nowhere to go. The economic scenario in South Korea is not going to change for six to nine months."
Still, some analysts said there were slivers of good economic news in South Korea. The collapse of the currency, the won, has made the country's exports cheaper and should cause a sharp increase in the country's current account, a measure of the balance between a nation's imports and exports of goods and services. A current account surplus allows a country to earn the foreign exchange needed to repay loans denominated in foreign currencies.
William McDonough, president of the New York Federal Reserve, declined to comment on yesterday's morning meeting other than to say in a press release that he was "pleased with the progress made." Bankers involved in the morning talks described them as "upbeat" and "productive," but a statement issued by international banks meeting later at J. P. Morgan did not offer specifics about the terms of the debt payment extensions, known as rollovers.
The statement said participants at the afternoon meeting were briefed by I.M.F. representatives to discuss how the private sector could "assist with the current liquidity problem." It said lenders "share the view that the Korean economy is strong and that the present situation is due to a liquidity squeeze primarily caused by an excessive reliance on short-term debt." Still, the key terms of the rollovers have been agreed upon, according to participants.
Banking regulators in the United States and Western Europe normally forbid rollovers on obviously soured loans and require them to be written off for a loss. But this crisis is anything but normal in its implications.
"I liken it to the tail end of a basketball game when there are two minutes left to play and the referees let the guys play," said Nancy Kimelman, chief economist for Thomson Financial Services in Boston. "What the central banks worldwide are doing is assuring the commercial banks that if they roll over the loans and classify nonperforming loans as performing, that would be O.K. They're working together to try and stabilize the situation."
Besides J. P. Morgan, United States banks involved in the effort include the Chase Manhattan Corporation, Citicorp, the BankAmerica Corporation, the Bankers Trust New York Corporation and the Bank of New York Corporation. International lenders include such banks as German giant Deutsche Bank A.G., France's Societe Generale, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd., the Royal Bank of Canada, Banca Commerciale Italiana, and the Swiss Bank Corporation.
Major American investment banks involved include Goldman Sachs & Company and Salomon Smith Barney Inc., which have been hired as financial advisers to the South Korean Government and are said by bankers to be leading candidates to underwrite a planned $9 billion debt offering by South Korea early next year, as well as Merrill Lynch & Company, Lehman Brothers Inc. and Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Company.
The investment banks have been brought in because, like commercial banks, they broker financial contracts known as derivatives with South Korean companies. Derivatives, so named because their value is derived from returns on stocks, bonds, or other benchmarks, are used by companies to hedge risk or speculate. South Korean companies use derivatives like interest-rate and currency swaps, and although disclosure on the contracts is minimal, analysts said South Koreans were not heavy users of the products.
Korea Development Bank, the largest derivatives user in the country, has swaps valued on paper at about $48 billion, according to Swaps Monitor, a New York trade publication. The market value of the bank's contracts is much less than that, and much less than the paper value of derivatives held by Chase Manhattan, which amount to about $7 trillion.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; CREDIT; FINANCES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); DEREGULATION (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); BANK FAILURES (73%); TRENDS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); LEGISLATION (64%); DISMISSALS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997



676 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Stands By His Embattled Aide

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 29

 BODY:
President Clinton came to the defense today of Ira C. Magaziner, a senior White House aide accused by a Federal judge of giving dishonest testimony, even as conservative groups organized to turn Mr. Magaziner into a symbol of Administration misconduct.
In a written statement released late this afternoon, Mr. Clinton said: "I am quite confident that Mr. Magaziner acted appropriately." He pointed to a previous investigation by a United States Attorney that found "no basis" to conclude that Mr. Magaziner committed a crime and "no significant evidence" that he had made, or even tried to make, a false statement. 
 "Mr. Magaziner is, and will remain, a valued member of my Administration," Mr. Clinton said.
On Dec. 18, Judge Royce C. Lamberth of Federal District Court said Mr. Magaziner and the Administration had been "dishonest" in describing the secret procedures used to develop the President's health care proposals in 1993.
In an interview at the White House tonight, Mr. Magaziner, who described himself as livid, defended his testimony about the health plan and accused Judge Lamberth of simply contradicting the findings of the inquiry that he had sought in the first place.
"He presents no evidence, no evidence," Mr. Magaziner said.
But Republicans said the investigation by the United States Attorney meant little compared with the judge's finding that Mr. Magaziner's statement was "actually false."
"The implications of Judge Lamberth's ruling are serious," Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who is the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said in a statement released immediately after the President's.
Mr. Archer repeated a plea that Mr. Clinton not use tax revenue to pay a penalty of $285,864 ordered by the judge against the Government. But in a letter to Mr. Archer today, John Podesta, a deputy White House chief of staff, said that if the ruling stands, the fees will be paid "using appropriate Government funds." The Justice Department is considering an appeal of the ruling.
Mr. Magaziner, a former business-strategy consultant who is an old friend of the Clintons, has been a lightning rod for criticism at the White House since the early days of Mr. Clinton's first term, when he and Hillary Rodham Clinton supervised hundreds of economists, health policy experts and outside consultants in devising the Administration's national health care plan.
Republicans expressed glee today at the prospect of waging a campaign to have Mr. Clinton oust Mr. Magaziner and saddle him with paying the penalty. One Republican Congressional aide said that "we will be delighted" to keep Mr. Clinton's health care plan "in the news for the next several weeks." But some Administration critics acknowledged that in this holiday period, the issue might not grab much attention.
Mr. Magaziner said that he consulted closely with lawyers in determining the structure of the working group that drew up Mr. Clinton's health care plan and that he hewed to the lawyers' advice.
"If you want to accuse me of something," Mr. Magaziner said, "you could accuse me of -- in a newly forming Government, being given a very mammoth task to complete in a short period of time -- I ran a process that was more chaotic than one would have liked. And that's a fair criticism. But that's very different than saying somebody lied or committed perjury or was dishonest."
Republican Congressional aides suggested tonight that the controversy surrounding Mr. Magaziner could spill over into the confirmation hearings of Beth Nolan, Mr. Clinton's nominee to be head of the Office of Legal Counsel in the Justice Department. Mr. Magaziner acknowledged that Ms. Nolan was part of a team of White House lawyers that helped write his contested statement.
Mr. Magaziner said he had considered the matter closed after the Justice Department investigation and did not know about Judge Lamberth's ruling until a reporter called him seeking comment earlier this month. With criticism mounting, Mr. Magaziner cut short a vacation today to return to Washington to defend himself.
For his part, Mr. Clinton seemed unworried. An unlighted cigar stuck in his mouth, he poked his head into the room where Mr. Magaziner, who attended Oxford with him as a Rhodes scholar, was being interviewed this evening. "He's a bad man," Mr. Clinton said jokingly. He added more seriously: "You know I was kidding."
Some conservative groups were consulting with Mr. Archer's office today to see how best to pursue the issue. Audrey Mullen, the executive director of Americans for Tax Reform, said she would "call up every taxpayer leader in town and across the country" to urge them to contact the White House and Congressmen about the matter.
The dispute turns on a sworn declaration that Mr. Magaziner made in March 1993 in testimony in a lawsuit brought by doctors upset at the conduct of the Administration's health care planning. Mr. Magaziner said the proposals were drawn up entirely by Federal employees, who were not subject to laws requiring open meetings or public disclosure of their working papers.
But after the disclosure of many White House documents, Judge Lamberth, in December 1994, called Mr. Magaziner's sworn statement "misleading, at best." He referred the case to Federal prosecutors, asking them to determine whether Mr. Magaziner committed perjury or criminal contempt of court.
The investigation was led by Eric H. Holder Jr., then a United States Attorney and now, as Deputy Attorney General, a Clinton appointee. He found in August 1995 that there was "no significant evidence" that Mr. Magaziner's statement "was factually false."
Mr. Holder attributed the trouble over the statement to three factors: fuzzy language that could have led to conflicting interpretations; false charges that were made about the statement, and a tendency "to evaluate the truthfulness of the declaration through hindsight as a description of the entire working group process," rather than as a description at the moment it was filed.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; ETHICS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION JUDGES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (86%); INTERVIEWS (79%); MISCONDUCT (78%); LAWYERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ETHICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); POLITICS (74%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); COMPANY STRATEGY (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BENNET, JAMES BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN PODESTA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997



677 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
Voting Extended a Day In Tumultuous Kenya Race
Kenyan officials extended the presidential election an extra day because of widespread logistical problems after polling places were swamped with crowds of frustrated voters when the polls were scheduled to close. Opposition leaders immediately accused the Government of trying to rig the election to insure a fifth term for President Daniel arap Moi, who has been in power in Kenya since 1978. A6 

U.S. Frees Rwanda Suspect
A Hutu pastor in American custody, wanted by the Rwanda war crimes tribunal on allegations of genocide and crimes against humanity, was set free by a district judge in Texas. The judge ruled that no formal treaty allowed for his extradition, denying a request by the United States Government and concluding that the law passed in 1996 allowing extraditions to the Rwandan and Balkans war crimes tribunals was unconstitutional. A1
 
Jobless Protest in France
Jobless demonstrators in France occupied nine employment offices, demanding year-end bonuses of $500. Protesters also blocked trains, causing delays for thousands of people. The demonstrators were trying to dramatize the inability of all recent French governments to reduce unemployment significantly. A4
 
Pipeline Foils Strategy on Iran
President Mohammad Khatami of Iran officially opened the first natural gas pipeline between the Caspian Sea Basin and his nation. Its opening breached a keystone of American efforts to isolate Iran, giving the nation access to the world's largest new energy reserves. Turkmenistan, the nation where the pipeline originates, also benefits by moving out from under Russian domination. A10
 
Star Climber Believed Killed
Anatoli Boukreev, a noted Russian mountain climber, is presumed by Nepal officials to have died in an avalanche while attempting a dangerous ascent on the 26,504-foot Annapurna peak in the Himalayas. Mr. Boukreev's style was controversial, and he had been accused of compromising clients' safety to achieve his goals. A8
 
Zambia Leader Seeks Bail
Kenneth Kaunda, the former President of Zambia who was arrested on Christmas day in connection with an alleged coup plot in October, appeared in court to challenge his detention under emergency laws, but the hearing was postponed until Friday after one of his lawyers became ill. Another of his lawyers told the court that Mr. Kaunda, who has gone on a hunger strike, had been subjected to psychological torture since his arrest. (Reuters)
 
Holocaust Victims' Fund
The Czech Republic and Germany formally agreed to create a $93 million fund to aid Czech victims of the Holocaust, but the sensitive issue of who will manage the organization is still unresolved. (Reuters)
 
NATIONAL A12-17
 
Kaczynski's Lawyers Drop Plans for Insanity Defense
Lawyers for Theodore J. Kaczynski abandoned their effort to argue that he suffers from a "mental defect" during the guilt phase of his trial on Unabom charges. The action was a victory for prosecutors who have been working to bar a defense argument that Mr. Kaczynski is a delusional paranoid schizophrenic. The prosecutors asserted that the argument should be barred because Mr. Kaczynski refused to be examined by Government psychiatrists. A1
 
Nichols's Penalty Phase Opens
The jurors who last week convicted Terry L. Nichols of conspiring to bomb the Federal Building in Oklahoma City began hearing arguments over whether they should sentence him to death. For the first time, the jurors heard graphic accounts of suffering and loss among the hundreds who were injured and the 168 who died. Before the proceedings ended, jurors, spectators, and lawyers at the defense table were in tears. A12
 
Clinton Seeks AIDS Money
President Clinton has decided to seek a substantial increase in Federal spending for treatment of people infected with the AIDS virus, primarily to help them pay for potent but costly new drugs, White House officials said. A14
 
Guilty Plea by Tyson Foods
The Arkansas poultry producer agreed to pay $6 million in penalties after pleading guilty to making illegal gifts to Mike Espy when he was the Agriculture Secretary. A14
 
Air Safety Answers Sought
An incident of violent air turbulence on a United Airlines flight from Japan to Honolulu that killed one passenger this week highlighted the campaign to reduce the threat of injuries under those circumstances. Some experts hope that a new laser detection system sponsored by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration will reduce the injury rate. A12
 
An Arrest Mirrors Town's Woes
The Mayor of Darby Borough, Pa., Daniel F. Devlin, a Republican who was unsuccessful in his bid last month for a second four-year term, confessed to robbing a local bank the day after Christmas, the police said. The events revealed a little-known and painful side of Mr. Devlin that seems to parallel the town, itself: both fighting an inexorable slide from middle-class stability. A12
 
Clinton Defends Magaziner
President Clinton came to the defense of Ira C. Magaziner, a senior White House aide accused by a Federal judge of giving dishonest testimony, even as conservative groups organized to turn Mr. Magaziner into a symbol of Administration misconduct. A14
 
Reversal in Murder Case
A Federal judge's decision freeing a Pennsylvania woman convicted of murder because he found her innocent was overturned by a Federal appeals court. A13
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-5
 
Police Officer Survives Shooting During Arrest
A plainclothes narcotics detective wearing a bulletproof vest survived being shot once in the chest and twice in the stomach at point-blank range and managed to wrestle the gunman to the ground after a routine drug arrest in the Bronx turned violent, the police said. B1
 
Nonpartisan Mayor Suggested
Three days before he was to be inaugurated for a second and final term, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said that he wants to be the last New York City mayor elected as a candidate of a political party. Mr. Giuliani said mayoral elections should be conducted on a nonpartisan basis, as they are in most American cities. B3
 
Bricks Over Broadway
A three-foot by five-foot piece of ornamental masonry fell to the sidewalk from the nine-story Hotel Belleclaire on the Upper West Side last night, prompting emergency officials to close a stretch of Broadway. No one was injured. B3
 
NEEDIEST CASES B2
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-8
 
DNA Link to Diabetes Sought
DNA data banks have helped a doctor at Massachusetts General Hospital open up a new window onto the nature of diabetes, a disease that affects 5 percent of the population. F1
 
2 Genes Tied to Epilepsy
The discovery of two new human genes that cause a form of epilepsy is expected to throw light on the disease as well as on the general principles by which the brain operates. F3
 
HEALTH F7
 
FASHION B7
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
ARTS E1-14
 
Mayor Has Broadway Plan
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani moved to strengthen Broadway's bottom line by allowing a far broader use of development rights from 25 theaters. Unused development rights from these theaters, most of them official landmarks, could be transferred within a wide area of mid-Manhattan for the purpose of constructing any number of new buildings. E1
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-20
 
Korea Gets Loan Extension
In an extraordinary gesture demonstrating South Korea's importance to the global economy, the world's most influential commercial and investment banks -- in tandem with the regulators that oversee them -- agreed to extend payment deadlines for up to $15 billion in troubled loans to strengthen the nation's dangerously precarious financial position. A1
 
Stocks Rise on Korean News
Stocks in the United States were buoyed by the apparent easing of the financial crisis in South Korea. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 113.10 points, or 1.47 percent, to 7,792.41. D1
 
Accord May Aid Big Players
A record legal settlement sparked by small investors who accused traders of fixing prices on the Nasdaq stock market may in the end create a windfall for huge, institutional investors like Fidelity Investments, Vanguard and American Century Investments. D1
 
I.B.M. Breaks Storage Barrier
I.B.M. plans to announce today that it has broken the magnetic disk-drive storage barrier of 10 billion bits of data a square inch. D2
 
Business Digest D1
 
OBITUARIES B8
 
James M. Nabrit Jr.
A lawyer who was an important figure in the legal struggle of American blacks against segregation and went on to be the president of Howard University in Washington in the 1960's, he was 97. B8
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: Wrong step in the Unabom case; freedom from mutilation; between the holidays; unfinished housing business.
 
Columns: Russell Baker, Frank Rich, A. M. Rosenthal.
 
Chess F5
 
Crossword E9
 
Chronicle D18
 
Weather C8

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: KENYA (94%); RWANDA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ZAMBIA (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); NEPAL (79%); TURKMENISTAN (79%); GERMANY (78%); 

STATE: HIMALAYAS (92%); CASPIAN SEA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KENYA (94%); RWANDA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ZAMBIA (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); NEPAL (79%); TURKMENISTAN (79%); GERMANY (78%); HIMALAYAS (92%); CASPIAN SEA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS EXTRADITION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); GENOCIDE (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); CLIMBING (86%); LEGISLATION (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); JUDGES (78%); ARRESTS (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); COUPS (77%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (77%); INSANITY DEFENSE (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (75%); HOLOCAUST (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); ELECTION FRAUD (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); NATURAL GAS (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); MOUNTAIN CLIMBING (69%); AVALANCHES (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (66%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (66%); EXTREME SPORTS (64%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: DANIEL ARAP MOI (57%); DANIEL TOROTICH ARAP MOI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997



678 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: NYC;
Pedestrians Get Mayor As Autocrat

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
MAYOR RUDOLPH W. GIULIANI had a point the other day when, in the course of defending his much-reviled antigridlock experiment in midtown, he complained that whenever you attempt something new in this city, the naysayers are immediately out in force telling you why it won't work. Many New Yorkers act as though their flu shots come with a serum that also makes them resistant to change of any kind.
But why does Mr. Giuliani always have to go too far? 
 Instead of simply defending his initiative as worth a try, he stamped his foot at the impertinence of those who do not swoon over every one of his ideas. Looking for an insult that would cut deep, he rummaged through his kit bag of aspersions and pulled out one that must have seemed really nasty to a fellow who grew up in the shadow of the Long Island Expressway. (Guess you can take the boy out of the suburbs, but you can't always take the suburbs out of the boy.)
"Anti-car," he sneered at critics of the barriers that the police had set up on 49th and 50th Streets to force pedestrians to detour at north-south avenues so that cars can complete their turns from east-west streets more easily.
Ouch!
Anti-car. He really knows how to hurt a guy.
But maybe the Mayor is on to something. Maybe those who were actually reared in New York have been shortsighted. They should have seen that the 900,000 cars entering Manhattan each workday are good for them: "a desirable form of transportation," as Mr. Giuliani put it, and essential to midtown's "economic viability."
These people bought the line that cars are strangling the great cities of the world, from Tokyo to Mexico City, with New York being no exception. Not that you can really blame them for their lack of vision.
After all, one municipality after another -- including places where the car is practically sacred, like Rome -- have concluded that the only alternative to controlling vehicular access to the city center is slow death. Even the Mayor's Transportation Department, in a report on "traffic-calming" that was prepared for the City Council last March, included this observation:
"A comfortable pedestrian environment attracts tourists, improves the quality of life for residents and promotes economic activity (emphasis added)." Closing Fulton Street in Manhattan for three hours a day led to a 10 percent increase in sales, the report added.
Maybe Mr. Giuliani, busy as he is, hasn't had time to listen to his own transportation experts. To spare him the bother, here's a condensed version of their report: 56 percent of New Yorkers do not have access to a car; 10.7 percent walk to work, a figure likely to grow, and an average of 40 pedestrians a day are hit by motor vehicles on city streets. Fact is, New Yorkers are more likely to be killed by a stranger at the wheel, as 226 were last year, than by a stranger with a gun.
In the face of all those who see the car as necessary, sure, but also a headache for an aging city, what did the Mayor do? Did he merely defend his traffic-flow test (which arguably may have some merit but which, typically under this administration, was thrust upon an unsuspecting public without a whisper of advance warning)? Nope. He chose, full force, to throw his lot in with the automobile.
AT least he is consistent. His enthusiasm for cars has been demonstrated in many ways, from his championing of auto-dependent superstores to his pooh-poohing of new mass-transit discount passes that just might lure motorists into the subways.
Consider this as well. When a bicycle deliveryman killed a pedestrian recently on a sidewalk, the police instantly cracked down on law-flouting cyclists. Good. Those people can be menaces. But this columnist, for one, has yet to see a police officer ticket any of the thousands of drivers who every day turn sharply into crosswalks and nearly run over pedestrians who are already there and have the right of way.
"The crosswalk belongs to the pedestrian, not the car," said Charles Komanoff, a transportation consultant who is unabashedly pro-pedestrian and pro-bicycle. "The car is at best a guest in the crosswalk."
The same may be said about the midtown experiment. "He has stepped over a line that perhaps he didn't know was there," Mr. Komanoff said of the Mayor. "Pedestrians hate this plan for the same reason they hate bikes on the sidewalk. It takes away space that belongs to them."
Ah, but what does he know, anyway? He's anti-car.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In midtown, no crossing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); CITY LIFE (77%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (72%); SUBURBS (72%); INFLUENZA (56%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997



679 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: Gold Loses Its Luster

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"Spinning Gold Into Dross" (Week in Review, Dec. 28) overlooked the real reason gold has lost its monetary glitter: the world's financial markets are increasingly capable of setting interest rates that not only protect central bank reserves and private investors against inflation but also yield at least a modest real return, something that gold cannot do. 
 It is market-determined interest rates, then, and not central bankers like Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, that have undermined gold as a store of value. As long as the financial markets can veto the often erroneous policies of central bankers and their parent governments, gold will not regain its luster.
 
BERT ELY
Alexandria, Va., Dec. 29, 1997
 
The writer is a banking and monetary policy consultant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (66%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (66%); VIRGINIA, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INTEREST RATES (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); MONETARY POLICY (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); 

PERSON: ELY, BERT ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1997



680 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Concern on Japan's Economy Pushes Dollar Higher vs. Yen

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The dollar rose against the yen yesterday as speculation that Japan's efforts to revive its faltering economy would prove insufficient left investors wary of buying Japanese financial assets.
The dollar also got a lift against the yen as the United States stock market rose strongly for a second day, aided by optimism that South Korean banks would not default on loans and a report from the Conference Board research group showing a high degree of American consumer confidence. 
 "It's going to take a long time for Japan to do everything it needs to do," said Mark Gargano, managing director for foreign exchange at the First Union Corporation in Charlotte, N.C. "They haven't come around fast enough. The yen is going to remain weak."
In late New York trading, the dollar cost 130.13 yen, up from 129.30 yen late Monday. The dollar settled at 1.7894 German marks, basically unchanged from 1.7893.
The dollar also strengthened against the British pound, which cost $1.6552 in New York, down from $1.6705.
The yen's weakness partly reflected the Japanese Government's half-hearted appraisal of growth prospects for next year, a sign of skepticism even among top officials that the economy will expand by the forecasted 1.9 percent.
In its annual review and outlook, Japan's Economic Planning Agency said the economy would recover only if a series of recent measures turned consumer confidence around. Japanese consumer spending has weakened since the Government raised the national sales tax in April.
Earlier this month, Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto announced a tax cut totaling 2 trillion yen, or about $15.4 billion, and disclosed a plan to stabilize the frail banking system. Analysts doubt those measures will be adequate to invigorate the economy and strengthen the yen.
The dollar's muted showing against the mark largely reflected the German currency's strength versus the yen.
To be sure, some traders were wary of bidding the dollar too high on concern that the Bank of Japan might sell dollars to keep the yen from extending its slide against the dollar.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); BANK OF JAPAN (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TRENDS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); BRITISH POUND (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); TAX RELIEF (64%); SALES TAX (64%); TAX LAW (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1997



681 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Prices Fall Slightly In Quiet Day

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury prices fell yesterday after a strong report on consumer confidence suggested that the economy might not slow as much as expected.
In lighter-than-normal trading volume, the price of the 30-year bond dropped 21/32 , to 102 7/32 . Traders note that price movement is often exaggerated by thin volume. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, rose to 5.96 percent from 5.92 percent on Monday. 
 The Conference Board's consumer confidence index rose sharply to 134.5 in December, from 128.1 in November and a much bigger rise than had been expected. The index is at its highest level in more than 28 years. Many analysts had expected declines because of the problems in Asia and recent volatility in the stock market here, but underlying fundamentals still suggest the economy is strong and jobs plentiful.
"Today's consumer confidence report was a surprise," said Jack Ablin, executive vice president and head of fixed-income investing for Barnett Capital Advisors Inc. in Jacksonville, Fla. "And the data are starting to tug at the bond market to begin looking at fundamentals again. If you strip off the temporary buying caused by the Asian market turmoil, fundamentally we should be back above 6 percent on the long bond."
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said, "Coupled with the still very buoyant pace of existing home sales reflected in recent data, and the latest weekly reading for U.S. stores as released by Redbook Research, these ebullient consumer attitudes created some nervousness in the bond market today and overrode, at least for the time being, favorable forecast for the future."
Still, Mr. Fine noted: "The 1997 economy, with its mix of strong growth, declining inflation and only one interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve will be a very tough act to follow. While economic expansion is expected to continue in 1998, the pace of business activity is projected to slow considerably, as consumer spending reverts to a more moderate trend following its sizzling growth in 1997 and the trade deficit widens noticeably as a result of both the stronger dollar and the turmoil in Asia."
In his analysis of yesterday's market, Doug Burtnick, a managing analyst at Technical Data of Boston, said the market succumbed to year-end position squaring, a number of strong economic indicators and the realization that large trading accounts are still very long, meaning that they own bonds.
"However," Mr. Burtnick said, "with the holidays continuing to lessen liquidity, the risks remain for a choppy market and the potential for more profit taking on upticks."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Treasury Yield Curve"
Yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yield for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. Chart shows yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yield for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale for bonds maturing from 3 months to 30 years. (Source: Technical Data)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: CAPITAL ADVISORS INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); BOND MARKETS (92%); BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TRENDS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); EXISTING HOME SALES (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1997



682 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Global Crisis in Population Is Far From Over, a Group Warns

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 30

 BODY:
Anticipating a renewed fight over American financing for abortions overseas, a liberal population-watch group warns that the global population crisis is far from over.
The study, by the Population Institute, sought to dispel recent reports that the population explosion is slowing and that the next demographic crisis was actually the declining birth rates in many developed nations. Institute officials acknowledged that the rate of population growth is slowing, but said the world's population rose by 80 million this year, with almost all of the increase occurring in some of the world's poorest countries. 
 "In 1997, world population growth turned a little slower," the report said. "The difference, however, is comparable to a tidal wave surging toward one of our coastal cities. Whether the tidal wave is 80 feet or 100 feet high, the impact will be similar."
These were among the findings of the report:
*At least 74 countries -- including Nigeria, Iran, Ethiopia, Iraq, El Salvador, Guatemala, Syria, Honduras and Nicaragua -- will probably double their populations in 30 years.
*Thirty-three countries, 25 of them in Africa, still have a fertility rate of 6 children per woman.
*About three billion women -- the equivalent of the world's population in 1960 -- will enter their child-bearing years in the next few years.
*More than 30 percent of all births in 1997 took place in one country: India. Although India's fertility rate fell sharply between 1986 and 1997, India is still expected to overtake China as the world's most populous country by the middle of the next century.
Authors of the report hope that it will provide fodder for what is expected to be a contentious debate over funds for abortion when Congress returns next month. In November, Congress stripped $3.5 billion from the American contribution to the International Monetary Fund and $1 billion from a fund to pay the American debt to the United Nations, in both cases citing the dispute over abortion funds.
Newt Gingrich, Speaker of the House, prodded by anti-abortion Republicans, has said the House will only approve the two spending measures if the Clinton Administration agrees to ban the use of Federal money by any private or government organization that supports abortions overseas or counsels women about their availability.
Officials with the Population Institute express the fear that as Congress resumes debate on the funds for the United Nations and the I.M.F., lawmakers' views on aid for abortion will be influenced by a spate of recent articles that assert that the world's population crisis is over. One article, by Ben J. Wattenberg and published in The New York Times Magazine, noted that birth rates had begun to plummet, and that in Europe and Japan fertility rates are about 1.4 children per woman, far below the level needed to keep their populations from declining.
Mr. Wattenberg wrote that "mounting evidence, from rich nations and poor, strongly suggests that the population explosion is fizzling."
Werner Fornos, president of the Population Institute, agreed that overall birth rates are declining. But he said the world's population is still rising sharply.
It would be arrogant to think, he said, "that the problem is over because the Caucasian race has balanced its population, and that we can now ignore the problems of the poorest of the poor."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); ETHIOPIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); AFRICA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); JAPAN (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); SYRIA (76%); 

COMPANY: POPULATION INSTITUTE NEW YORK TIMES / MAGAZINE GROUP (50%); POPULATION INSTITUTE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: POPULATION INSTITUTE POPULATION INSTITUTE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); ETHIOPIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); AFRICA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); JAPAN (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); SYRIA (76%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; BIRTH CONTROL AND FAMILY PLANNING POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (93%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FERTILITY RATES (89%); ABORTION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); WRITERS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1997



683 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Confidence Of Consumers Is Surging

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 30

 BODY:
Unruffled by Asia's crisis and buoyed by the exceptionally promising job market, American consumers approach 1998 with the most confidence about their economic future that they have expressed in nearly three decades.
"The strength of the United States economy, especially of the labor market, continues to lift consumers' spirits and bolster their expectations," Lynn Franco, associate director of the Conference Board's Consumer Research Center, said today in reporting that confidence surged in December to its highest level since mid-1969. 
 Those calling jobs "plentiful" reached a record 40.6 percent of respondents to the monthly survey conducted for the business-supported research group.
The optimism in the survey was viewed as a strong signal that the economy would remain vibrant, partly because consumer spending accounts for a large portion of domestic growth. The survey results also contributed to the second consecutive surge in the stock market, where the Dow Jones industrial average rose 123.56 points or 1.6 percent, adding to a 1.5 percent gain Monday.
Although financial and economic turmoil in Asia is widely expected to hurt certain parts of the economy, especially American exporters, consumers seem to be regarding it nonchalantly or even as a likely benefit to them, economists said.
One reason is that lower costs loom for imported goods, reflecting the dollar's strength in relation to devalued Asian currencies and the need by South Korea and other stricken countries with faltering domestic markets to bolster sales abroad.
Moreover, many economists think that whatever slowing effects the Asian crisis has on the American economy will allow the Federal Reserve to avoid raising interest rates.
Consumers, said James E. Annable, chief economist at First Chicago-NBD, "are putting together all these things as it pertains to them and they're coming up with the right answer." In other words, households seem somehow to be recognizing that what economists call the terms of trade have shifted in their favor.
The Conference Board's overall confidence index jumped to 134.5 this month from 128.1 in November, with consumers' appraisal of both the present situation and their expectations for six months ahead posting substantial gains.
While the index reached 130.2 in September and has been hovering near peaks since spring, the latest reading vastly exceeded expectations and is the highest since June 1969 when it stood at 137.9.
The present-situation component of the index, a barometer of how consumers perceive their current financial security, also hit a 28-year high, climbing to 161.7 from 156.8. The expectations component of the index surged to 116.4 from 108.9, a 13-year peak.
"Consumers are the most upbeat in three decades," said Edward Yardeni and Debbie Johnson, economists at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, in an advisory to the firm's clients.
Especially impressive, analysts said, was that 40.6 percent of those responding to the survey described jobs as "plentiful," up from 36.4 percent in November and the highest proportion since April 1969.
Only 16.8 percent, down from 17.4 percent, called jobs "hard to get," just short of the record low.
Although wages have been rising of late, consumers were not so optimistic about increases in family income during the first half of the new year. The proportion expecting higher wages eased to 27.7 percent from 29.9 percent, the survey found. But fewer households also expected incomes to drop, 5.1 percent compared with 6.6 percent in November.
Regionally, the increased confidence was concentrated in the Southeast and West Coast. Five of the nine regions, in fact, had declines, including the Middle Atlantic states where confidence has long lagged behind the rest of the country and did not emerge from recessionary readings until early 1997.
At 96.5 this month, the Middle Atlantic region was down from 99.1 in November but far ahead of the dismal 76.6 of December 1996.
The latest reading for New England was 130.6, negligibly lower than 131.5 last month.
Confidence in the South Atlantic states jumped to 143.3 from 130.5 while in the Pacific states the advance was to 140.2 from 129.4.
"Consumers are clearly entering the new year extremely satisfied with ongoing conditions and have high expectations for 1998," Ms. Franco said in her statement.
The Conference Board's survey is conducted by NFO Research, a firm in Greenwich, Conn., which mails questionnaires to a representative sample of 5,000 households each month, obtaining a response rate of about 70 percent. It seeks answers to five questions: current and future business conditions, current and future jobs and future incomes.
The survey was begun in 1967.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Sunny Disposition"
Conference Board index of consumer confidence. Chart shows Conference Board index of consumer confidence for the years of 1986 through 1996. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. D8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (55%); DBK (FRA) (55%); DBK (BIT) (55%); DBETN (JSE) (55%); DBA (ASX) (55%); DB (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (93%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD DEUTSCHE BANK AG (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (88%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (88%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); DEVALUATION (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); CURRENCIES (70%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1997



684 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Dow Rises 123.56, on a 2d Vibrant Day

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

 BODY:
The stock market rallied again yesterday, as investors went on an end-of-the-year buying spree in the hope that the economic crisis in Asia would not seriously disrupt United States corporate profits in the coming year.
After weeks of seesaw trading, jittery investors pushed prices higher for the second consecutive session. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average soared 123.56 points, or 1.59 percent, to close at 7,915.97, putting the blue-chip index up 22.76 percent to date in 1997. If the Dow holds, it will be the first time it has gained 20 percent or more for three years in succession.
Broader indexes were stronger yet. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 17.49 points, or 1.83 percent, to close at 970.84, putting that stock barometer up 31 percent so far this year.
The Nasdaq composite index, filled with big-name technology issues, rose 1.79 percent, to 1,565.03, and the Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks climbed 1.72 percent.
Wall Street analysts said the rally had been propelled by late-year flows of cash into mutual funds, including hefty savings and bonuses, as well as some evidence of stability in South Korea after several leading banks moved to roll over loans there.
And then, the analysts added, there was a familiar end-of-year buoyancy, the period between Christmas and New Year's Day when the market typically rises.
"It is the time of seasonal strength," said Eric Miller, chief investment officer at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette in San Francisco. "One compilation says that 80 percent of the time, the week between Christmas and New Year's Day has been up."
Indeed, yesterday's big rally came a day after the Dow index had jumped 113 points. And so while the blue-chip indicator is well below an Aug. 6 high of 8,259.31, it remains far above where it was late in October, after a one-day decline of 554 points. The day after that plunge, which had been set in motion by financial developments in Asia, the Dow dipped as low as 6,971.32.
Yesterday's rally in the United States may have been buoyed, in part, by a report showing that consumer confidence in December reached the highest level in nearly three decades, a sign that the American economy remained healthy despite the turbulence in much of Asia.
Investors may also have been soothed by reports that influential commercial and investment banks decided to roll over more than $15 billion worth of loans to South Korea, staving off default.
"There's a sense of relief that the crisis in Asia has been put off by some of the rollover of loans in Korea," Mr. Miller said. "Whether it's correct or not, there's no immediate crisis in Korea."
That news helped send Asian and European stock markets higher early yesterday, adding strength and momentum in the United States.
 In Tokyo, the benchmark Nikkei index of 225 issues ended the trading year there with a surge of 3.27 percent, to 15,258.74, in a half-day session yesterday. The Hang Seng index in Hong Kong gained 2.4 percent, finishing 1997 at 10,755.21.
In New York, trading on the Big Board was robust, about 504.4 million shares, on the next-to-last market day of the year. Nearly three stocks rose for every issue that fell.
Among the strongest issues yesterday were technology stocks, many of which were badly hit by the crisis in Asia as semiconductor companies have huge exposure there.
Yesterday, though, technology issues outperformed the broader market. The Pacific Stock Exchange Technology Index gained nearly 2 percent. And shares of companies like Intel and Microsoft -- the twin towers of the Nasdaq composite -- were in heavy demand. Microsoft rose 3 15/16 , to 130 1/4, putting that stock up 58 percent to date this year, and strengthening its position as the second-largest-capitalization company in the world, after General Electric.
Intel rose 49/64 , to 71 11/16 . Dell Computer was also strong, up 2 3/16 , to 85 1/16 . Shares of the Internet browser company Yahoo gained 2 1/16 , to 71. For the year; Yahoo stock is up more than 500 percent.
Among Dow issues, 28 gained yesterday, led by United Technologies, which rose 2 13/16 , to 72 1/4, and the Walt Disney Company, which gained 2, to close at 99.
Shares of the Dayton Hudson Corporation, which operates retailers like Target and Mervyn's, rose about 10 percent yesterday after the company said that strong holiday sales would help bolster its profit.
 
ON THE WEB
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CHRISTMAS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1997



685 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Dow Surges 123.56 Points In Year-End Buying Spree
The Dow Jones industrial average goes into the last trading session of the year with a gain of 22.3 percent. If the gain holds today, it will be the first time that the Dow has gained 20 percent or more in three consecutive years. 
 A year-end buying spree, fueled by optimism that Asia's economic crisis would not cripple profits of American companies, powered yesterday's gains. The Dow rose 123.56 points, or 1.59 percent. Broader market indexes also surged. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 17.49 points, or 1.83 percent, while the Nasdaq composite index rose 27.58 points, or 1.79 percent. Page D8.
 
Treasury prices fell in thin trading. A report on consumer confidence that was stronger than expected weighed on bond prices. The benchmark yield of the 30-year Treasury bond rose to 5.96 percent from 5.92 percent. D6.
 
True North Shareholders Clear Deal
True North shareholders approved the company's $440 million acquisition of Bozell, Jacobs, Kenyon & Eckhardt of New York. Publicis of France, True North's former partner, had tried to derail the deal, which will create the world's sixth-largest advertising company. Advertising. D6.

Underground Banks Boom in Korea
In South Korea, so-called underground banks -- unofficial lenders for people who lack the credit a regular bank requires -- have been busy as the country wallows in financial crisis. Since regular banks have essentially stopped lending, businesses and individuals have had little alternative. D3.
 
A Suitor for Three Mile Island
GPU said it was negotiating with a possible buyer of the Three Mile Island, shown at left, as well as the Oyster Creek nuclear power plants. The New Jersey company, which announced earlier this year that it wanted to sell the plants, did not identify the suitor. D5.
 
British Concern in Chemicals Deal
Harrisons & Crosfield of Britain took a big step toward becoming largely a specialty chemical company by buying Rheox from NL Industries of Houston for $465 million. D2.

Court Expedites Microsoft Hearing
A Federal appeals court agreed to give Microsoft a quick hearing on its appeal of a preliminary injunction restricting distribution of the company's browser program. D8.
 
China Clamps Down on the Internet
China adopted elaborate new rules restricting use of the Internet. The new rules apply to companies providing Internet access as well as individuals using it. A3.
 
Cloud Over France's Recovery
Effects from the Asian financial crisis and a shorter 35-hour workweek have led some to question how well France can sustain an economic recovery. D2.
 
Wheat and Hog Prices Slump
The prospect of abundant wheat and pork supplies pushed futures prices down sharply in trading on commodity exchanges in Chicago. The Commodity Research Bureau index, a barometer of trends in commodity prices, slid to its lowest level since July 13, 1995. D7.
 
Hong Kong Extends Chicken Ban
Hong Kong officials extended for at least several weeks a ban on chicken imports from mainland China, saying that mainland chickens were the probable source of the bird flu outbreak that left four people dead. The extension will have a great economic impact on Guangdong Province in southern China, which normally exports 75,000 chickens to Hong Kong every day. A3.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,915.97 up 123.56
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.96% up 0.04
The Dollar -- 130.13 yen up 0.83
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Leading Indicators. November figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern. Expected: +0.1%
 
Photo: Three Mile Island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (92%); PUB (PAR) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (68%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (92%); FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (92%); BOZELL INC (68%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (92%); FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (94%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CHEMICALS MFG (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (78%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); POWER PLANTS (76%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); WORK WEEK (70%); APPROVALS (68%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (67%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); APPEALS COURTS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (62%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (62%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (62%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (61%); INJUNCTIONS (60%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%); INTERNET BROWSERS (50%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1997



686 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Deft French Premier Unscathed by Jobless Rate

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 30

 BODY:
France's Socialist Prime Minister, Lionel Jospin, has President Jacques Chirac and his conservative opposition all tied up in knots six months after defeating them at the polls.
"The real President these days is not Chirac, but Jospin," a conservative member of Parliament fumed the other day. The legislator was commenting on Mr. Jospin's ability to pick his way unscathed through the minefield of budget cuts, soaring unemployment and European fiscal policy that blasted Mr. Chirac's protege Alain Juppe out of the Prime Minister's job in the legislative elections last spring. 
 Unemployment is still nearly as high as it was when the conservatives were in power, at 12.4 percent of the labor force. But by incessantly repeating that jobs were his first priority while quietly continuing deficit-cutting measures that had made his predecessor unpopular, Mr. Jospin has managed to keep his ratings high, to the grudging admiration of his opponents.
Diplomats here say the balance of power has clearly shifted from the President's office to the Prime Minister's.
"Jospin and his ministers are calling the shots here now in foreign policy, the economy, and everything else," a diplomat from an allied country said. "I have trouble persuading my people back home that they shouldn't just be talking to Chirac and his aides, but to Jospin and his ministers as well."
That is apparently true in Washington. Mr. Jospin's aides say the Prime Minister is eager to go to Washington in 1998 to get to know President Clinton and key lawmakers better, but has not received an invitation yet.
The Prime Minister, 60, may lack Mr. Chirac's suave gravity, and may not be as intellectually brilliant as his conservative critics say Mr. Juppe was. But Mr. Jospin outmaneuvered both conservative leaders in the elections last spring, called after Mr. Chirac dissolved Parliament in hopes that Mr. Juppe would get a fresh mandate from voters before they felt the bite from a new round of spending cuts needed to qualify France for a common European currency in 1999.
The election results sent Mr. Juppe scuttling back to Bordeaux, where he is Mayor, and made Mr. Jospin master of a sometimes unruly coalition of environmentalist, Socialist and Communist deputies in the National Assembly that has tested all his skill as a national leader.
His Finance Minister, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, helped by a recovery in the French economy, juggled figures with agility and came up with a budget that looks likely to qualify France for the common currency and put a little more money into the pockets of wage-earning taxpayers by shifting some of the costs of health insurance onto the rich.
Mr. Jospin has not had a totally free ride, particularly on the subject of his plan to introduce a 35-hour workweek after the turn of the century, an idea that many French business leaders and conservatives warn will choke off whatever hope there was of getting France out of its unemployment rut.
But after President Chirac warned against such "hazardous experiments," Mr. Jospin retorted that "the other head of the executive branch" had practically written the book on those, by calling elections that had backfired on him.
The riposte appealed to the French love of Voltairian wit, and it left opposition leaders spluttering.
The head of Mr. Chirac's neo-Gaullist Rally for the Republic party, Philippe Seguin, recently protested that having a Prime Minister from one party under a President from another one was "a detestable system." But the Constitution that makes it possible was devised for Charles de Gaulle himself, and the Gaullists are stuck with it for the time being.
Mr. Jospin's own ranks grew restive over changes he proposed to French asylum and nationality laws to fulfill a campaign promise demanded by his Communist allies to roll back some of the most Draconian anti-immigration measures that had been passed by the conservatives after the Iron Curtain came down.
In more than 100 hours of debate earlier this month, the National Assembly adopted changes in the law restoring the automatic right of French citizenship at age 18 to any child born on French soil, whether of French or foreign parents, and eliminating bureaucratic requirements that discouraged immigrants already here from bringing in members of their extended families.
But the conservative opposition, fearing voter backlash against foreign immigrants that has produced a surge in support for the far-right National Front party at Gaullist expense, blocked the citizenship law in the upper house of Parliament, forcing a new National Assembly debate in January.
During a trip to Africa this month, Mr. Jospin added fuel to the fire by telling an audience in Mali that France would stop chartering planes to return illegal immigrants to Mali against their will.
"He has revealed his true colors," the conservative former Interior Minister Jean-Louis Debre asserted. "Mr. Jospin's Government and the Socialists have no intention of fighting against illegal immigration."
Mr. Jospin said: "We ask our Malian friends not to try to come and settle in our country illegally. The state of our economy and the high level of unemployment do not allow us to accept them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Lionel Jospin of France stood behind President Jacques Chirac as they reviewed the Bastille Day parade last summer. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PRIME MINISTERS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); WORK WEEK (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); MONETARY UNIONS (65%); CURRENCIES (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: JOSPIN, LIONEL (PRIME MIN); JUPPE, ALAIN; CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); WHITNEY, CRAIG R JACQUES CHIRAC (91%); BILL CLINTON (73%); DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1997



687 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Gilbert Fitzhugh, 88, Dies; Ex-Metropolitan Life Chief

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
Gilbert W. Fitzhugh, a former chairman and chief executive of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, died on Monday at the Meadow Lakes Health Care Center in Hightstown, N.J. He was 88 years old and had been ailing for several years with Alzheimer's disease, said his son, Gilbert Van Ingh Fitzhugh.
Mr. Fitzhugh retired in 1973 after 10 years at the helm of Met Life. While insurance was his first love -- he even met his wife, who had joined the company's London office, when her desk wound up near his at Met Life's Manhattan headquarters -- Mr. Fitzhugh also became an agent of political change. At a White House news conference in 1967, he announced the formation of a $1 billion fund in which insurance companies would invest in rehabilitating rundown urban housing. 
 That fund, which has since grown to $2 billion, was hailed by President Lyndon B. Johnson as "a historic contribution to our country," at a time when other urban-renewal programs pushed by the Administration were encountering fierce opposition from Congress.
While Mr. Fitzhugh in a speech a few months earlier had obliquely criticized President Johnson for what he called the "new economics," which entailed increased Government involvement in American business, he had also been grimly impressed with conditions in a Brooklyn neighborhood he toured with Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York.
Mr. Fitzhugh also led a Government-appointed panel from 1971 to 1972 that assessed the Pentagon's procurement practices and called for change in the way the Government girded itself for war. "We're amazed that it works at all," he said in announcing his findings, which some hailed for exposing some of the system's worst flaws. The panel's report was attacked by critics like Senator William Proxmire, a Wisconsin Democrat, for taking too kindly an attitude toward military contractors' profits and the ties between industry and the Pentagon.
In 1972, as head of the New York Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Fitzhugh proposed a merger of the Colonial-era group with the more recently arrived Industry Association of America. The effort had fallen flat eight years earlier, but the chamber voted overwhelmingly in favor of the merger the second time around.
While he headed Met Life, the company added automobile and home insurance to its policy offerings, becoming the third company to do so.
Born in Brooklyn, Mr. Fitzhugh spent the first 12 years of his life with a cleft palate that badly garbled his speech, his son said. The problem was eventually corrected with surgery, but by that time Mr. Fitzhugh had developed formidable powers of concentration that, at age 23, made him the youngest person to pass all the examinations required to become a fellow in the Society of Actuaries. The society, though, had a rule at the time that no one under 25 could be admitted, so Mr. Fitzhugh, to his great annoyance, had to wait until his 25th birthday for his membership to become official. He later became president of the society.
Although he was a quick study when it came to actuarial concepts, starting off as a clerk in Met Life's social insurance division shortly after he graduated from Princeton University in 1930, he often struggled with simple arithmetic. In a 1970 interview, he said, "I can add up a row of figures four times and get four different answers." After 33 years with Met Life, including a brief tour in Canada, he was named chief executive in 1963.
While he spent much of his career calculating risk for others, he scaled mountain peaks like Mount Marcy in the Adirondacks and the 14,000-foot-high Mount Whitney in California for recreation.
In addition to his son, Gilbert of Morristown, N.J., Mr. Fitzhugh is survived by his wife, the former Lea Van Ingh of Hightstown; a daughter, Lea Fitzhugh Welch of Yakima, Wash.; a sister, Sarah Fitzhugh Dawson; two grandchildren; three step-grandchildren; two great-grandchildren, and one step-great-grandchild.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gilbert W. Fitzhugh (Associated Press, 1973)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (93%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (93%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: METLIFE INC (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); INSURANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MERGERS (89%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (73%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (64%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (64%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (50%); 

PERSON: FITZHUGH, GILBERT W; HAYS, CONSTANCE L MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1997



688 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: China Cracks Down on Dissent in Cyberspace

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Dec. 30

 BODY:
China adopted elaborate new rules today restricting use of the Internet, a medium that is fast fraying the Government's monopoly on information.
The new rules spell out in more detail than before the Government's definition of computer crimes, which include use of the Internet to defame Government agencies, to promote separatist movements or to divulge state secrets. 
 Officials cited a need to "to safeguard national security and social stability" as they annouced the rules, which are clearly aimed at squelching the rapidly growing use of electronic mail and Web sites by dissidents to spread their message.
Announcing the new regulation, Zhu Entao, an Assistant Minister of Public Security, said computer information networks are indispensable to the country's economic and scientific advance.
"But the connection has also brought about some security problems, including manufacturing and publicizing harmful information, as well as leaking state secrets through the Internet," Mr. Zhu said, according to the official New China News Agency. Mr. Zhu spoke on Monday at a news conference to which foreign journalists were not invited.
In 1996 the Government declared that laws against pornography, social disturbances or breaches of state security would apply to the Internet, and the practical impact of the new regulation will depend on how it is enforced.
But the announcement is a warning to dissenters and their sympathizers here and abroad.
Earlier this month, for example, after he was released from prison and sent to the United States, the democracy advocate Wei Jingsheng said he planned to use the Internet and other forms of telecommunications to press his cause from abroad.
 The new rules will not affect Hong Kong, Reuters reported, quoting Anthony Wong, director general of the territory's telecommunications. Mr. Wong said the Internet was covered by the "one country, two systems" doctrine adopted when Britain ceded Hong Kong in July.
Use of the Internet to retrieve information and send E-mail has soared since China first allowed global connections in 1994. At the end of October, 620,000 Internet subscriptions had been established, the Internet Information Center of China, an arm of the state-run company that oversees Internet services, reports.
Many of those accounts are shared by 10 or 20 people, though a growing number of people have computers at home and may pay more than $200 to establish a personal account. Though the connecting lines are often crowded and slow, users can still tap the bountiful resources of the global Internet.
The Cabinet approved the new rules on Dec. 11. The Government did not publish the text, but Reuters reported that among other things it prohibits using the Internet to "split the country" -- Chinese terminology applied to supporters of the Dalai Lama or of formal independence for Taiwan. Another article bans "defaming of Government agencies," which could apply to statements by democracy advocates.
The regulation calls for unspecified "criminal punishments" and fines of up to $1,800, Reuters reported, and applies to companies providing Internet access as well as to individuals using it.
In 1996, inveighing against the "spiritual pollution" of China, the Government used its control over the telecommunications system to block access to more than a hundred Web sites, including those of many foreign newspapers, human rights and dissident groups and Taiwanese agencies, as well as sites considered pornographic, like Playboy magazine's. In early 1997, it reopened access to some sites.
This evening, access through Chinese Internet providers to some newspapers, including The New York Times, and to the Web pages of well-known dissident groups abroad was apparently blocked. A user trying to sign on received no response.
But the pages of many other foreign news sources, including The Washington Post, were accessible, as were many X-rated sites reached via a common Web browser.
Controlling Web sites is a Sisyphean task because so many new ones are constantly being created, and people with skill and determination can find ways to bypass the Government barriers. Though a monitor may be able to identify messages by their labels -- for example, www.amnesty.com -- seditious information can be disguised.
Still, one blocked site, that of the group Human Rights in China, based in New York, still gets dozens of "hits" from inside China each week, said the executive director, Xiao Qiang. Another banned site from the United States, China News Digest, gets hundreds each week, he said.
E-mail is the Government's real Achilles' heel. Security agents can tap phones and monitor the contents of some among the blizzard of letters, but there is no way to censor them. More likely, a monitoring program could be used to gather evidence against addressees should the Government wish to suppress their access to information.
The scattered, usually silent remnant of democracy advocates here has found ways, together with exiles, to exploit electronic mail.
It is not so useful, they say, for sending sensitive messages directly to one person in China, because the line might be tapped and because so many accounts have numerous readers. "But it's great for the mass distribution of information," Mr. Xiao said by telephone from New York, noting that news or articles can be sent to dozens or hundreds of addresses to be widely read, with no one clearly responsible.
He pointed to an electronic magazine called "Tunnel," a weekly forum for free political discussion that is mainly written and edited inside China. The contents are sent by E-mail to a Silicon Valley address where it is electronically mailed back into China to thousands of addresses. Some 20 issues have appeared since it began in June.
China's struggle to tame the squirming Internet octopus reflects what many experts see as the Government's central conundrum: how to foster economic growth and freedom while keeping tight screws on politics.
Mr. Zhu, the security official who announced the new rules, gave no nod to the possible trade-offs. "The safe and effective management of computer information networks," he said, "is a prerequisite for the smooth implementation of the country's modernization drive." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (74%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (94%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (74%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNET & WWW (93%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (79%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); COMPUTER CRIME (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); PORNOGRAPHY (73%); NEWS REPORTING (72%); JOURNALISM (72%); APPROVALS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK DALAI LAMA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1997



689 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Temptations of a Balanced Budget

 BODY:
By some estimates, the Federal budget is headed for surplus for the first time in many years. The surplus, if it occurs, is likely to be temporary because Medicare costs will begin to soar within a decade. Even so, the prospect of a more or less balanced budget has inspired a lot of politicians to start waving tax cuts in front of the voters. Premature cuts can only hurt the poor. When the economy slows, Congress is far more likely to cut the housing, day care and training on which the poor rely before they rescind their ill-advised tax cuts.
Even President Clinton cannot resist the urge to cut. Mr. Clinton is expected to propose modest tax credits, perhaps costing $4 billion a year, for child care and education expenses. Because tax credits do not help people too poor to owe much tax, his plan will probably not help families most in need. The White House no doubt regrets this, but it is trapped between its desire to avoid unaffordable cuts and its need to neutralize the expected Republican effort to reduce taxes for the rich and the middle class. 
 Individual Republicans have proposed many types of tax cuts. But the one idea that has captivated much of the party is eliminating the so-called marriage tax, a feature of the tax code that can impose higher taxes on two individuals after they marry. The G.O.P. plan would cost a daunting $20 billion a year.
Eliminating a tax on marriage sounds like a great idea. But it is also a sound idea to set higher rates on wealthier people and to tax families with the same total income the same no matter how their income is split between spouses. No tax code can satisfy these three goals simultaneously. Two people whose individual incomes are low enough to be taxed at 15 percent can, under a progressive code, hit the 28 percent bracket when their incomes are combined. Congress can eliminate the marriage tax, but only by sacrificing progressivity.
The current code produces a more complicated array of winners and losers than the politicians let on. Indeed, many couples owe less tax after they marry. The sobering fact is that 90 percent of the savings from eliminating the marriage tax will go to families earning at least $50,000 a year.
With future deficits looming, income inequality soaring and a year after Congress handed wealthy families a hefty cut in capital gains and tax cuts, this is no time for Congress to tilt the Federal budget toward them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; MEDICARE; TAXATION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH TAXES & TAXATION (94%); BUDGETS (93%); TAX LAW (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MEDICARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); POLITICS (89%); FAMILY (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1997



690 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Big Lenders Press Seoul to Repackage $15 Billion of Bad Debt

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN with SETH FAISON 

 BODY:
Several of the world's largest banks, trying to advance their effort to avert a default by South Korea, are circulating a proposal to convert at least $15 billion of the country's bad debt into new debt backed by the country's Government, but Seoul at least for the moment is resisting that idea.
Also under consideration, but as yet not part of the bank proposal, is the creation of a South Korean Government agency that would oversee the repackaged debt. Bankers said the agency would be similar to the Resolution Trust Corporation, which was created in the United States to manage savings and loan institutions that failed in the 1980's and early 1990's. 
 A draft of the proposal, written by J. P. Morgan & Company and first presented at a meeting at the American bank's New York headquarters on Monday, was shared with the South Korean Government sometime in the last day, the bankers said.
But a senior South Korean finance official said yesterday in Seoul that his country would not automatically agree to foreign bank demands that the Government guarantee the new debt without first considering the matter independently.
The official, Chung Duk Koo, the Deputy Finance Minister, said he was encouraged by a decision by international lenders on Monday to give South Korean borrowers a one-month reprieve on $10 billion to $15 billion of troubled loans that were due today.
"We cannot make any blanket guarantee," Mr. Chung said in an interview. "Many alternatives are still open. We could use some kind of central bank guarantee, or Government bonds. It is under consideration and has not yet been decided."
Nonetheless, the South Korean Government has little room to maneuver because its economy has been hurt so badly.
Although the Korean stock market is closed until Saturday for a year-end holiday, the nation's currency, the won, tumbled 12 percent against the dollar yesterday and fell another 5.9 percent by midday today. The decline yesterday snapped a three-day gain and partly reflected a year-end effort by South Korean companies to buy dollars to settle foreign accounts. But the won's decline also was an illustration of persistent skepticism about the country's prospects.
If the bad debt is not replaced, banks would be forced to extend, or roll over, the debt again at the end of January -- a process that cannot go on indefinitely because it will only cause South Korea's economic crisis to escalate.
Moreover, the $10 billion to $15 billion in bad debt rolled over is only part of the problem. South Korea has about $40 billion in short-term debt that will become due at the end of March that also must be repackaged in some fashion.
South Korea said in August that it would back up the country's banks if they defaulted but stopped short of issuing a more formal guarantee to the struggling nation's creditors.
"The rollovers are obviously a short-term measure for the next 30 days," one banker said. "Something has to follow the rollovers."
The proposal presented to the South Korean Government would involve replacing a portion of the short-term bad debt with at least $15 billion worth of longer-term bonds issued by the the Government.
The bonds would have to pay a higher interest rate than the Government and banks are currently paying and might carry rates of about 10 to 11 percent.
The bonds would have three ranges of maturities: one year, 3 or 5 years, and 10 years.
The interest rates might not be too much for the South Korean Government to bear. Through most of 1997, South Korea paid about 5 percent, or $7 billion, to finance its external debt. That represented about 4 percent of what the country earned on exports.
If the interest rate paid to finance the debt doubled, the rate would only represent about 7.5 percent of 1997's year's export earnings. And South Korea's export earnings could rise sharply next year because of the sharp depreciation of the won.
The won's decline already appears to be helping exports.
The Bank of Korea announced yesterday that South Korea had a current account surplus of $540 million in November -- its first in four years -- compared with a $710 million deficit in October. The current account is a measure of the balance between a nation's imports and exports of goods and services.
The main goal of the revamping is to convert short-term loans that require immediate payment into long-term bonds that can be repaid more slowly and thus ease South Korea's shortage of money.
The rolled-over loans consist primarily of private bank debt and exclude other types of corporate debt. For the time being, international lenders are apparently willing to let some South Korean corporate borrowers -- other than banks -- default on their loans.
Still, the bulk of South Korea's $81 billion in short-term debt is held by private banks. Banks have $55 billion in short-term debt, while other companies have $26 billion in short-term debt, according to the International Monetary Fund.
None of the short-term debt is held by the Government. Of the country's approximately $73 billion in long-term debt, the I.M.F. said, $44 billion is held by banks, $18 billion by other companies and $9 billion by the Government.
Private banks in South Korea have been singled out for special attention in the rollovers because they are linchpins in the local economy.
The credit situation is so serious in South Korea that an average of 45 companies a day declared bankruptcy in December.
The Bank of Korea urged banks to lend money to companies trying to make bond payments, but in trying to meet I.M.F. lending standards, many banks have been unable to make any loans. Since late summer, about $20 billion in capital has left the country, according to American bankers.
One I.M.F. official, who insisted on anonymity, noted that the international banks' proposal to revamp the South Korean debt is just "one of many suggestions floating around" and that the financial community "wants to find ways of addressing South Korea's liquidity problem."
J. P. Morgan, Citicorp and the Chase Manhattan Corporation are leading American bank efforts to restructure the bad loans. Other international giants like the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd., Deutsche Bank A.G., and Societe Generale are also involved.
While some new lending may accompany the revamping at some point, American commercial bankers disputed reports yesterday that $10 billion in fresh bank financing was being arranged for South Korea.
It had previously been reported that the South Korean Government might try to issue $9 billion in new bonds -- an offering that would apparently have to wait until all the short-term loans were cleaned up.
Meanwhile, the I.M.F. released $2 billion to South Korea yesterday, part of $10 billion in accelerated aid promised to the country by the agency and other publicly financed institutions.
Another $8 billion in backup financing was expected to be disbursed to South Korea by 13 countries next week, depending on how the rollovers proceed.
 But one underlying problem for South Korea is that the won's decline makes it harder for South Korean banks to meet the minimum ratio of capital to outstanding loans that the I.M.F. insisted upon when it agreed earlier this month to provide $57 billion in emergency assistance.
"We will demonstrate our creditworthiness," Mr. Chung asserted. "We will do something every day. We will expedite the I.M.F. package. We are open and transparent. That's the only way to demonstrate our will and our attitude to the international community."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Halla May Sell to Bowater
 SEOUL, South Korea, Wednesday, Dec. 31 (Dow Jones) -- South Korea's troubled Halla Group said today it is in talks with Bowater Inc. of the United States to sell a piece of Halla Pulp & Paper Company, part of the parent company's effort to survive its financial crisis.
Halla said through a spokesman that nothing had been decided and he denied local press reports that the country's 12th largest conglomerate plans to sell the entire paper business to Bowater, a leading American forest-products company.
Halla Group, which has major business interests in heavy industries, cement and car parts, was declared bankrupt in early December after failing to honor its debts.

GRAPHIC: Photos: As the financial turmoil in South Korea deepened, Buddhist worshipers prayed for the recovery of the nation's economy in the next year during a special New Year's service yesterday at the Chogye Temple in Seoul. (Associated Press); The South Korean currency resumed its erosion versus the United States dollar yesterday after gaining ground in recent trading. Customers monitored the wild ride of the won at the Korea Exchange Bank in Seoul. (Associated Press)(pg. D3)
 
Graphs: "Down Again"
After three days of gains, the won fell about 12 percent against the dollar yesterday. Graph shows the won compred to the dollar, from Oct. to Dec. Scale is inverted to show the falling value of the won. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. D3)
 
"South Korean Exposure"
Amounts owed to American banks by South Korea and other Asian nations as of June 30.
 
BANK LOANS (in millions)
While money center banks have lent the most to South Korea, smaller banks are owed considerable sums.
 
Money center banks: $14,534
Large regional banks: 1,962
All others: 3,674
 
U.S. RISK IN ASIA
U.S. banks' exposure in South Korea is larger than in any other Pacific Rim country outside Japan.
South Korea: $20,170
Nine others: 22,752
Singapore: 6,216
Thailand: 7,025
Hong Kong: 8,375
(Source: Brown Brothers Harriman)(pg. D3)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN, J P, & CO JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN, J P, & CO RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); CURRENCIES (86%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); FOREIGN LENDING (77%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); TRENDS (61%); 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L; FAISON, SETH

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1997



691 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: CALIFORNIA'S BAN TO CLEAR SMOKE INSIDE MOST BARS

BYLINE: By DON TERRY 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 30

 BODY:
In the biggest assault yet on cigarette smoking in the United States, bars, casinos and nightclubs across California will be forced to ban smoking at the stroke of midnight on Jan. 1, as part of a virtual ban on indoor smoking in public places.
The policy is part of a 1994 labor law in the nation's most populous state, meant to protect the health of employees like bartenders, waitresses and bellhops from the risks of secondhand smoke. It extends the state's no-smoking policy to bars and clubs from mountain ski resorts to beach-side cafes and every watering hole in between. 
 The law's critics and smoking advocates say the ban is Draconian and unenforceable and that bars are unlikely to keep patrons from smoking. They also say it will be financially disastrous for bars and nightclubs.
But anti-tobacco forces say the fines included in the law will insure it will be enforced and experts say that it signals a new battleground in the war over smoking.
"I think this bar ban going into force is the most important thing happening in tobacco in the country today," said Stanton A. Glantz, a professor of medicine at the University of California at San Francisco. "When this happens in the biggest, most diverse state in the country and the sky doesn't fall, it will spread across the country."
California is the first state to so thoroughly restrict smoking.
Since 1995, there has been a ban on smoking in restaurants without bars and in manufacturing plants, offices and other enclosed work places. An exemption was granted to bars and nightclubs in the hope that sophisticated ventilation systems could be developed to reduce the health risks of secondhand smoke.
But California official officials say that the technology has not been developed and that there is no acceptable level of secondhand smoke indoors. So with the coming of the New Year, the smoke-filled bar -- where the broken-hearted go to cry and the company softball team gathers to celebrate or forget the latest game -- will become illegal.
"What you've got in California again is Prohibition," said Thomas Humber, president of the National Smokers Alliance, a pro-smoking group in Alexandria, Va., that receives some of its money from the tobacco industry.
Mr. Humber said there was already a campaign to get the California Legislature to repeal the ban next year. "Believe me," he said, "we'll be as active as any group can be to urge repeal."
Mr. Humber said that a few communities in California had enacted similar complete smoking bans but that he was not aware of such bans in other states.
Assemblyman Brett Granlund, a Republican who opposes the ban, said repealing the law would be very difficult. "I'm afraid it's going to be the law of the land," he said.
Mr. Granlund, who is trying to quit a two-pack-a-day smoking habit, said the law clearly infringed on the rights of business owners to operate the way they see fit. "Smokers on airplanes and in restaurants have voluntarily complied with smoking restrictions when the law has been reasonable," Mr. Granlund said. "But this law is unreasonable. You're going to have to hire an army to enforce it."
Indeed, there is talk of setting up "smoke-easy's" and of civil disobedience campaigns by smokers and bar owners.
Banning bar smoking, they say, will not only rob customers of an otherwise lawful pleasure, it will hurt owners because smokers will stop going to bars. Forrest Miller, a bartender at the Studio Lounge in Hollywood, said that about 100 people have already signed a petition he keeps behind the bar seeking a repeal of the law.
'I've been a bartender for 35 years, and they're trying to destroy my business," said Mr. Miller, 53. "I'm not a smoker and I'm healthy as a horse."
Some people have even suggested that bars should borrow from the tactics of civil rights and anti-war protesters of the 1960's and hold smoke-ins. "Smokers have rights too," said Allan Hill, a bartender at Studio Lounge in Hollywood. "On Jan. 1, I'm going to ask smokers to take a cigarette out and smoke it."
Even if the other bar owners and managers go along with the ban, said Brad McAllen, a 50-year-old bar manager, it would probably be half-hearted compliance. "We'll post a no-smoking sign," he said, "but I can't ask my bartenders to be cigarette police."
Three years ago, when smoking in restaurants was banned in California, there were plenty of dire predictions. But recent studies show no drop in business at bars that already prohibit smoking, said Colleen Stevens of the state health department's tobacco control section. "
Ms. Stevens said there are 850,000 people who work in the state's hospitality industry. "Until now, they were the only workers in California not protected en masse against secondhand smoke," she said. "This is a workers' health issue."
Enforcing the ban will be up to local city and county governments. In most parts of the state, if a business owner or manager sees a customer smoking, they are required to ask the patron to stop. But because of concerns for employee safety, they are not required to evict a patron who continues to smoke.
If someone files a complaint with their local health department, for example, an owner could be given a $100 fine for the first offense, $200 for the second and up to $7,000 by the fourth.
There are still some exemptions from the law, for example, for bars with no employees -- no bartender, no one to sweep up or to handle disorderly patrons. But there are not many of those in California. The state law does not ban smoking at outdoor arenas and stadiums, but some local governments do have outdoor restrictions.
For several years New York City has banned smoking in most restaurants and other indoor public places, but bars have been exempt because city officials were concerned about the potential effect on tourism.
"To get this through we had to perform a delicate balancing act between a lot of different groups," said Richard M. Weinberg, general counsel for New York's City Council. "We allow smoking in bars because there's a culture where people smoke and drink, and you have to be realistic. You don't want to destroy economic development and tourism."
New York does allow smoking in restaurants that have bar areas if the bar is at least six feet from the dining section. Mr. Weinberg said there has been overwhelming compliance with the law.
Kimberly Belshe, the head of California's health services department, said she expected compliance with the smoking bar ban.
"It will probably take some time," Ms. Belshe said, "but it will be as commonplace for smokers to step outside the bar to have a smoke as telling their woes to the bartender."
Robert Taylor, a 28-year-old smoker who installs telephone systems, was sipping on a beer the other day and puffing on a Winston at Steve Boardner's Bar & Grill, one of the oldest in Hollywood. He said he did not like the law but it would not make him stop going to bars.
Many workers have to take work where they find it, even in a bar filled with smoke.
Marc Burgat, of the American Heart Association in California, said it would take at least six months to see how well the law worked. "In terms of tobacco control, California has always been a leader of the nation," he said. "I think this will spread like a wave across the country. It's just a matter of time before I'm able to go into a bar in Washington or Dallas and watch the game and not be bothered by tobacco smoke."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; RESTAURANTS; CASINOS; BARS; NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; GAMBLING SMOKING (94%); DRINKING PLACES (91%); SMOKING BANS (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (89%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TOBACCO MFG (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); INDOOR AIR QUALITY (76%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (73%); RESORTS (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%); HOTEL STAFF (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); SOFTBALL (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1997



692 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9
 
New Internet Rules in China May Be Aimed at Dissent
China has introduced new regulations criminalizing the use of electronic mail and the Internet in ways that defame Government agencies or promote separatist movements. Officials cited a need "to safeguard national security and social stability." A3 

Avian Flu Safeguards
The bird-flu outbreak that has killed four people in Hong Kong originated from chickens imported from mainland China, Hong Kong officials declared. They said they had worked out an elaborate inspection system to screen poultry imports from the mainland and would extend a ban on imports until it was set up. A3
 
Vietnam Chooses Hard-Liner
Vietnam announced that Gen. Le Kha Phieu had been appointed to the country's top post, General Secretary of the Communist Party. General Phieu, reputed to be a law-and-order enthusiast, replaces Do Moui, who in the 1980's steered the country through a modest liberalizing phase. A9
 
Kenya Vote Ends in Confusion
Both President Daniel arap Moi and the opposition in Kenya accused the Electoral Commission of rigging the elections against them after a second day of voting. Chaos had blossomed at the polls amid bad weather and anger at an erratic distribution of ballots. The specter of resurgent political violence hovered as politicians on all sides armed themselves with reasons to reject the results. A4
 
Judge Disrupts U.S. Policy
Legal experts said that a Texas magistrate's unexpected decision to release a Rwandan Hutu charged with genocide and refuse a government request to surrender him to an international tribunal demonstrated that judges were clashing more and more often with Federal agencies trying to carry out international treaty obligations. Some warned that the precedent could prove "very disruptive" to the conduct of American foreign policy, which often pressures other countries to extradite people. A4
 
Population Growth Is Slowing
A study by the liberal-leaning Population Institute said the world's population growth was slowing but warned that it was still comparable to an overwhelming tidal wave and emphasized that it was concentrated in poorer countries. The authors of the report hope it will provide fodder for an upcoming Congressional debate on the funding of abortions overseas and counter a spate of recent articles contending that declining population rates in developed countries are the real crisis. A6
 
Conviction in Anti-Muslim Case
Tatyana Suskin was convicted in a Jerusalem court of committing an act of racism and trying to offend religious feelings with her posters depicting the prophet Mohammed as a pig. Rioting broke out in the West Bank town of Hebron when she put up the posters there in June. Miss Suskin is a follower of the banned anti-Arab group Kach. A7
 
NATIONAL A10-13
 
California Bans Smoking Inside Most Public Places
Bars, casinos and nightclubs across California will be forced to ban smoking at the stroke of midnight on Jan. 1., as part of a virtual ban on indoor smoking in public places in the nation's most populous state. The policy is part of a 1994 state labor law intended to protect the health of employees like bartenders and waitresses from the risks of second-hand smoke. A1
 
Details on Scientology Accord
New details of a 1993 settlement between the Church of Scientology and the I.R.S. show that the church paid $12.5 million to the Federal Government, and, in turn, was granted tax-exempt status, saving the church millions of dollars in taxes. As part of the settlement, the church agreed to drop its lawsuits against the I.R.S. and to stop helping church members who, along with the church itself, had brought 2,200 lawsuits against the agency and its officials over the years. In exchange, the I.R.S. stopped its audits of 13 major Scientology organizations, dismissed tax penalties and liens against some church organizations and granted tax-exempt status to 114 Scientology-related entities. A1
 
Clinton Legal Trust to Close
The trustees of President Clinton's legal defense fund said they would close their operation because campaign financing scandals and restrictions on the fund had slowed donations to a trickle. But some friends and advisers of Mr. Clinton have already set about designing a new fund with greater leeway in raising money. A1
 
Elderly Challenge Health Rule
A new Federal law scheduled to take effect on Thursday has set off a fierce dispute over the right of elderly people to choose their own health care and to negotiate fees with their doctors. A conservative group that represents more than a half-million elderly people filed suit in Federal District Court to block the law, which was included in the balanced-budget bill signed earlier this year by President Clinton. A13
 
Donor May Testify in Espy Case
The pending trial of former Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy on charges of accepting illegal gifts has taken on greater political significance with the likelihood that Donald Tyson, the poultry millionaire and long-time supporter of President Clinton, will testify against Mr. Espy. In a reversal of earlier denials, Tyson Foods admitted Monday to having made more than $12,000 in illegal gifts to Mr. Espy, including sports junkets and Clinton inaugural tickets worth $6,000. A12
 
Nurse Charged in 6 Deaths
A licensed practical nurse known for his tender touch at a hospital in a small Indiana town was charged with the murders of six patients, by killing them with lethal injections. The police said their investigation centered on perhaps 100 unexplained deaths at the hospital from 1993 to 1995. A10
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-5
 
Times Square Building Collapses Onto 42d Street
A narrow six-story building collapsed just before the morning rush hour, throwing tons of rubble across 42d Street and raising questions about whether recent signs of structural problems with the building were properly addressed. The collapse caused no injuries, but it forced the shutdown of 42d Street between 7th and 8th Avenues and nearly forced the cancellation of a preview performance of "Ragtime" at the new Ford Theater. A1
 
Traffic Experiment Extended
The Giuliani administration announced that it would extend by a week, until at least Jan. 12, its experiment to ease vehicular gridlock in midtown Manhattan by blocking off pedestrian crosswalks despite heated and escalating criticism from pedestrians and their advocates. B1
 
Giuliani Sworn in Again
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani was sworn in for his second term as New York City's 107th mayor, effective at midnight on New Year's Eve. In the first of three swearing-in ceremonies, Mr. Giuliani took and signed his oath of office in an ornate conference room at City Hall. Then he plunked down 15 cents to pay the City Clerk the official filing fee that has been required by law since 1898. B3
 
NEEDIEST CASES B2
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
DINING IN, DINING OUT F1-8
 
EDUCATION B8
 
ARTS E1-22
 
OBITUARIES B6-7
 
J. Richardson Dilworth
A philanthropist and retired financier who was a former chairman of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and the Institute of Advanced Studies in Princeton, N.J., he was 81. B7
 
Simone Duvalier
The wife of one Haitian dictator, mother of another and a power in her own right, who rose from a childhood of poverty, was in her mid-80's. B6
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-18
 
Banks Revise Korea Plan
Several of the world's largest banks, trying to advance their effort to avert a default by South Korea, are circulating a proposal to convert at least $15 billion of its bad debt into new debt backed by the country's Government, but Seoul is resisting that idea. D1
 
Consumer Confidence Rises
Consumer confidence surged in December to its highest level since mid-1969 as Americans seemed unruffled by Asia's crisis and buoyed by the exceptionally promising job market. Those calling jobs "plentiful" reached an unprecedented 40.6 percent of respondents in a monthly survey. The optimism in the survey was viewed as a strong signal that the economy will remain vibrant. D1
 
U.S. Stocks Rally Again
The stock market rallied again, as investors went on an end-of-the-year buying spree in the hopes that the economic crisis in Asia will not seriously disrupt corporate profits in the coming year. The Dow Jones industrial average soared 123.56 points, or 1.59 percent, to close at 7,915.97, putting the blue-chip index up 22.3 percent this year. If the Dow holds steady, it will be the first time that the index has ever recorded gains of 20 percent or more in three consecutive years. D8
 
Business Digest D1
 
EDITORIAL A14-15
 
Editorials: Temptations of a balanced budget; Kenya's flawed election; outdated drug laws; study first, play later.
 
Columns: William Safire, Maureen Dowd.
 
Chronicle B5
 
Metro. Diary B3
 
Crossword E16
 
Weather B6

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); HONG KONG (93%); KENYA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RWANDA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (75%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (75%); 

COMPANY: CHINA-HONG KONG PHOTO PRODUCTS HOLDINGS LTD (58%); POPULATION INSTITUTE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: POPULATION INSTITUTE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); HONG KONG (93%); KENYA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RWANDA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (76%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (76%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); POULTRY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); SMOKING (73%); EXTRADITION (73%); ELECTION FRAUD (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); INFLUENZA (71%); TRADE DISPUTES (70%); SMOKING BANS (70%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (67%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (67%); POLITICAL DEBATES (66%); RIOTS (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); ABORTION (64%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (63%); RELIGION (60%); POPULATION DECLINE (56%); POPULATION GROWTH (55%); GENOCIDE (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: DANIEL ARAP MOI (55%); DANIEL TOROTICH ARAP MOI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1997



693 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: New York Gained Empire, but Lost Democracy;
Colonies' First City

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Kenneth T. Jackson, as he mentions New York City's Dutch roots (Op-Ed, Dec. 28), brings to mind another event to celebrate: the 1653 incorporation of New Amsterdam as the first "city" in the original 13 colonies.
In Europe, incorporated cities were "incubators of capitalism," autonomous centers protected by civil law and commercial privileges. Seventeenth-century Amsterdam, the city after which New Amsterdam was modeled, dominated European trade and finance. 
 New Amsterdam's charter from the States-General of the Netherlands came in response to a petition from Manhattan merchants who sought to enhance their own burgeoning commerce. City government, they wrote, would "attract navigation and profitable trade" and "allure everyone hither."
The 1653 charter became the cornerstone of Manhattan's first merchant community and was responsible for New York City's economic growth during its formative years. In 2003, why not celebrate 350 years of being a city?
 
DENNIS J. MAIKA
Pleasantville, N.Y., Dec. 28, 1997

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Wesley Bedrosian)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NETHERLANDS (94%); EUROPE (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NETHERLANDS; UNITED STATES (95%); NETHERLANDS (94%); EUROPE (93%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; HISTORY; CITY CHARTERS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); 

PERSON: MATKA, DENNIS J

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1997

 
