

201 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: Canada's Premier Gambles by Having Election Set for October, a Year Early

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Stephen Harper, putting aside the date he had set by law, formally propelled Canada into a federal election campaign on Sunday.
 The vote on Oct. 14 will come about a year earlier than the date Mr. Harper had specified in legislation after his Conservative Party assumed power in January 2006. It will be the third national election for Canada in just over four years.
 Mr. Harper asserted that opposition parties had forced his hand by rendering Parliament ''dysfunctional.'' But his opponents retorted that the early vote was exactly the sort of political manipulation the prime minister had promised to eliminate.
 ''We have come to the moment that requires the people of Canada to choose the way forward,'' Mr. Harper said outside Rideau Hall, the residence of Governor General Michaelle Jean, who as official head of state formally dissolved Parliament and set the election in motion. ''They will choose between direction or uncertainty, between common sense or risky experiments, between steadiness or recklessness.'' 
 Mr. Harper's government, like the Liberal one it succeeded, did not control a majority in Parliament. While he held power despite that handicap for a relatively long period, Mr. Harper is chancing an election now to exploit the Conservatives' current strengths -- chiefly, his own popularity -- and to face the voters before the negatives, mainly the economy, get worse. 
 The Conservatives have raised more money and are generally considered better organized than the Liberal Party, which has dominated Canadian politics for much of the past century.
 Mr. Harper is not charismatic and often appears irritated, particularly when he is challenged. But his personal approval ratings in pre-election polls are significantly higher than those of Stephane Dion, the Liberal leader. Mr. Harper was named potentially ''the best prime minister'' by 50 percent, compared with 20 percent for Mr. Dion. 
 Mr. Dion, a former academic, is entering his first election as party leader. He speaks English awkwardly, and even in French, his first language, Mr. Dion at a podium can sound as if he were still lecturing dryly on public administration and political science at the Universite de Montreal. 
 The most striking negative prompting Mr. Harper's decision is a deteriorating economy. Although high prices for Canadian oil and commodities have so far prevented a significant slowdown, recent economic data suggest that the country is being dragged down by the problems of the American economy. The Canadian military mission in Afghanistan, which Mr. Harper has prominently championed, has also fallen out of favor with most Canadians, according to a poll released last week by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. 
 In addition, though the Conservatives won office nearly three years ago partly because of public reaction against a federal spending scandal involving the Liberals, now, after promising to end corruption, the Conservative Party has itself become the focus of two controversies over campaign financing. 
 Polls conducted in the past few weeks have generally shown the Conservatives in the lead. A poll released Saturday, conducted by the international market research organization Ipsos Reid, found the Conservatives with 34 percent and the Liberals with 31 percent. The poll, of 4,013 voters, had a sampling error of plus or minus 1.6 percentage points. Other polls reported slightly larger margins for the Conservatives. 
 But Darrell Bricker, president and chief executive of Ipsos Reid Public Affairs, cautioned against drawing too many conclusions from the polls. Canadians vote for individual members of Parliament, not for national political parties or the prime minister. Poll results of the Conservatives, Dr. Bricker said, are skewed upward by the party's 62 percent rating in Alberta, Mr. Harper's home province. 
 ''I usually have a pretty good sense of how things are going to go,'' Dr. Bricker said. ''But this time I have no idea.'' He said that voters' responses to other polling questions had yet to show what issues or strategies could work in either party's favor. 
 ''Everything you need to win, the Conservatives have, and they're not winning,'' he said. ''With the Liberals, everything you need to lose, they have, and they're not losing.''
 On Sunday, Mr. Dion minimized his low approval ratings and predicted he would do better in the spotlight of the campaign. ''I love to be the underdog,'' he told reporters in Ottawa at the Parliament Buildings. ''I love to be underestimated.''
 Mr. Dion first gained national prominence as the Liberal environment minister who hosted the 2005 Kyoto Conference on Climate Change in Montreal. Perhaps unsurprisingly for a man who named his dog Kyoto, Mr. Dion has in recent months emphasized issues of climate change. 
 The Liberals see Mr. Harper, whose home province is also home to the oil and gas industry, as vulnerable on the issue. The Conservative government rejected Canada's commitments under the Kyoto accord and, in their place, introduced a plan that, while it would require industries to reduce the rate at which they generated gases related to global warming, would allow overall emissions to rise.
 By contrast, Mr. Dion proposed in June to lower overall emissions by introducing a carbon tax on all fossil fuels except gasoline. The money it generated, estimated at 15.4 billion Canadian dollars a year, or $14.5 billion, would finance offsetting income tax reductions and special energy tax credits for the poor. 
 Mr. Harper called the proposal ''insane,'' and his party ran advertisements describing it as a ''tax on everything.'' 
 But Mr. Dion did not back away from the proposal on Sunday. ''It will lower your taxes and put a tax on pollution,'' he said.
 As Mr. Dion seeks to sell his proposal for a carbon tax, he must deal with a crowded field of parties boasting green credentials. The campaign of the Green Party of Canada will be led for the first time by Elizabeth May, founder of the Canadian branch of the Sierra Club. And the New Democratic Party, which leans to the left and has union support, is emphasizing its green platform. 
 In the end, political analysts say, the opposition and the Conservatives alike may focus on Mr. Harper and his leadership.
 In recent days, the Conservatives ran television advertisements that showcased Mr. Harper, including one in which he chats about the joys of being a parent. All conclude with the slogan: ''Canada, we're better off with Harper.''
 On Sunday morning, the leaders of all the opposition parties, including the Bloc Quebecois, said that if Mr. Harper won a majority in Parliament he would push a right-wing agenda that would drastically transform a wide range of programs like public health care, as well as degrade the environment. ''Stephen Harper formed the most conservative government in our history,'' Mr. Dion said. ''With this conservative ideology, Canadians are left to fend for themselves.''
 Some Canadians fret about a distraction from below the border. Dr. Bricker, the polling executive, said the United States presidential campaign was stirring great interest in Canada and had won Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic nominee, a clear following among Canadian voters.
 In Guelph, Ontario, Ms. May urged Canadians to ''turn off CNN'' and focus on the Canadian vote. 
 Fred E. Cutler, a political scientist who studies polling at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver, predicted that once the Canadian campaign gained momentum, voters would focus their attention back home.
 ''All this talk about Obama energizing American voters and the contrast with a boring Canadian campaign and the Canadian leaders is not on the mark,'' he said. ''I don't think there's any evidence of any effects, positive or negative, of U.S. campaigns on Canadian voters.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Stephen Harper before a news conference on Sunday in Ottawa at Rideau Hall, the governor general's residence.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM HANSON/THE CANADIAN PRESS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (67%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (63%); SCANDALS (60%); CORRUPTION (60%)

COMPANY: CANADIAN BROADCASTING CORP (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (60%)

PERSON: STEPHEN HARPER (93%); STEPHANE DION (79%); MICHAELLE JEAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%) QUEBEC, CANADA (79%) CANADA (98%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008



202 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2000 words

HEADLINE: MORTGAGE GIANTS TAKEN OVER BY U.S.; As Crisis Grew, A Few Options Shrank to One

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUHIGG, STEPHEN LABATON and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN; Edmund L. Andrews and Gretchen Morgenson contributed reporting.

 BODY:
This article was reported by Charles Duhigg, Stephen Labaton, and Andrew Ross Sorkin and written by Mr. Duhigg.
For Freddie Mac, the beleaguered mortgage finance giant that was desperately trying to avoid a government takeover, the moment of truth came three weeks ago.
In a last-ditch effort to raise money to offset billions of dollars of losses, Freddie's chief executive, Richard F. Syron, traveled to New York to huddle with potential investors at the headquarters of Goldman Sachs and a law firm, Davis, Polk & Wardwell.
Over a couple of days, he and his lieutenants made their pitch -- only to have every option rejected, people briefed on the discussions said.
Empty-handed and crestfallen, Mr. Syron canceled plans to join his family at their weekend home on Cape Cod and returned to Washington to deliver the bad news to Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr.: he still hadn't found anyone willing to save Freddie Mac. 
Mr. Paulson and a team at the Treasury had been working for months on plans to prop up both Freddie and its sister company, Fannie Mae, hoping they would never have to act.
Now a consensus was emerging that they had little choice. If Freddie's and Fannie's problems worsened, a crisis of confidence could spread through the worldwide financial system, deepening the difficulties in the housing market and further weakening the economy -- in the midst of a hard-fought presidential campaign.
So while Democrats gathered in Denver to nominate Senator Barack Obama two weeks ago and Republicans met last week in St. Paul to nominate Senator John McCain, Mr. Paulson and his top aides worked nonstop -- often for 18 hours a day, including Labor Day weekend -- to scrutinize possibilities and complete the details of a government takeover of both companies.
Mindful of the high stakes, Mr. Paulson convened a secure video teleconference on Aug. 26 from a bunker under the West Wing of the White House to brief President Bush, who was at his ranch in Crawford, Tex. Fannie's and Freddie's situation was deteriorating, he advised the president, and something needed to be done, according to a White House official who was not authorized to speak to the media.
On Sunday, with the president's blessing, Mr. Paulson announced the solution: a takeover that could turn into the biggest and costliest government bailout ever of private companies.
The action was a huge comedown for two powerful companies that had long held enormous sway in financial boardrooms and government corridors.
''Today's necessary but likely very expensive action for taxpayers is the consequence of regulatory neglect and of a broader political system's reluctance to take on what should have been clearly seen as festering problems,'' said Lawrence H. Summers, who as Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton had warned of mounting problems at the companies.
The downfall of Fannie and Freddie stems from a series of miscalculations and deferred decisions, both by their executives and government officials, according to company insiders, regulators, auditors and outside analysts. The companies expanded rapidly in recent years, initially playing down the risks posed by a housing bubble. Then, as the housing slump expanded nationwide, they resisted raising enough new capital that might have provided a financial cushion to weather the storm. Lawmakers, paralyzed by partisan infighting, delayed strengthening regulatory oversight of the politically powerful companies.
Mr. Paulson did not fully recognize the extent of Fannie's and Freddie's financial problems until recent months. In July, seeking to avoid a government takeover, he asked Congress for the power to bail out Fannie and Freddie -- hoping that gaining such authority would calm markets and make a rescue unnecessary.
But he quickly learned that getting those powers made their execution inevitable. His strategy did not anticipate that investors, already spooked by a year of troubles in the financial markets, might panic any time that rumors of problems at Fannie and Freddie cropped up.
The seizure of Fannie and Freddie is all the more surprising because, as recently as late March, Washington viewed the companies as saviors of the housing market and the economy, rather than as risks to them. Instead of requiring Fannie and Freddie to scale back, regulators gave them a green light to buy and guarantee more and bigger mortgages.
On March 19, James B. Lockhart, their chief regulator, dismissed swirling rumors about their financial health. ''The actions we're taking today,'' Mr. Lockhart declared, referring to a decision to ease restrictions on how much capital they were required to hold, ''make the idea of a bailout nonsense in my mind. The companies are safe and sound, and they will continue to be safe and sound.''
With this vote of confidence, the battered stocks of the two companies rose sharply, to more than $30 a share, levels they would not reach again.
But within about a month, Mr. Paulson was becoming concerned about the companies. In April, he met with their chief executives and top members of the Senate Banking Committee in a closed-door session.
Over the previous years, as the housing bubble inflated, Fannie and Freddie stepped up their purchases of the risky but profitable subprime and alt-A loans that were at the root of the mortgage crisis. Though Congress had just pushed Freddie and Fannie to accelerate purchases of loans to give the housing market a boost, Mr. Paulson was now urging lawmakers to establish stronger oversight and push the companies to raise more capital.
The companies' thin financial cushions were becoming even more stretched, Mr. Paulson said, according to people with firsthand knowledge of the conversations; and if either company got into trouble, it could threaten the already weakened economy.
In the months after, Fannie Mae managed to raise $7 billion in new capital to offset losses, fulfilling a promise made to regulators. Freddie Mac, however, failed to make good on its pledge to raise $5.5 billion. Still, though the companies' stock prices continued drifting downward, they continued to borrow money without problem, which is crucial to their ability to buy mortgages.
But in early July, as the housing crisis continued to widen and deepen, confidence in the companies began to evaporate. Rumors spread that Fannie and Freddie were not fully reflecting losses from rising foreclosures on mortgages they held.
The stocks of both companies fell more than 60 percent during the second week of July, to single-digit prices, and the cost of borrowing money rose for both, reflecting anxiety over growing risk. Alarmed, Mr. Paulson asked Congress to give him the authority to rescue the companies if necessary. Congress quickly granted him that power.
At the time, Mr. Paulson said he hoped never to use the authority. ''If you've got a bazooka and people know you've got it, you may not have to take it out,'' he told one Congressional panel.
Just in case, however, Mr. Paulson began analyzing his options.
In late July, he called John J. Mack, the head of the investment bank Morgan Stanley, and asked his firm to consider advising the Treasury. Within the agency, Mr. Paulson told his deputies to start examining contingency plans.
As those discussions progressed, a mantra emerged among top officials, people with knowledge of the Treasury's conversations said. The government's priorities were to maximize market stability, mortgage affordability and taxpayer protection.
Mr. Paulson added a mantra of his own: he privately said he didn't want to ''kick the can down the road'' and leave the problems for a future administration and Congress to solve.
Morgan Stanley assigned teams of financial analysts in the United States, Britain and India to review loan data from Fannie and Freddie around the clock, because of concerns that the problems might be worse than the companies had revealed. Bankers estimated that it would take as much as $50 billion to offset the companies' combined losses.
Throughout August, telephone conferences between officials and advisers often began at 7:30 in the morning and lasted until 11 at night. Mr. Paulson started telling friends that after winning authority to intervene, he ''felt like a dog who'd caught the bus and didn't know what to do with it.''
As possibilities were debated, Treasury officials eventually concluded that if they had to act, the best choice was a conservatorship -- a takeover that would make government backing of the companies' debts and obligations explicit but would remove the companies' leadership while still keeping them operating.
''They called it 'sticking the companies in a timeout,' '' said one person with firsthand knowledge of the conversations. ''It protects the safety and soundness of the economy but also gives everyone breathing space.''
Most worrisome, the companies' cost of borrowing was growing more expensive, and central banks in Asia and Russia were scaling back their purchases of the companies' debt. Freddie, in particular, was in a bind. Unlike Fannie, it had not raised capital earlier, when markets were less nervous. Mr. Syron figured that the company had one final chance to raise money and signal to debt investors that the company was viable.
However, when he went to New York, potential investors told Mr. Syron there was too much uncertainty around the Treasury's intentions; if investors acted now, and Freddie was later seized by regulators, they would lose everything they had invested.
Mr. Syron told Mr. Paulson that efforts to raise money had been fruitless, prompting the Treasury secretary to set up the Aug. 26 video conference call with the president.
After briefing the president, the Treasury moved quickly. Over Labor Day weekend, Mr. Paulson convened meetings with Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve; Kevin Warsh, a Fed governor; and Mr. Lockhart, Fannie and Freddie's regulator.
Meanwhile, advisers from Morgan Stanley contacted Freddie Mac and asked it to provide data on 12 million mortgages. Executives within Freddie Mac viewed the request as a signal that they had won a brief reprieve because it would take weeks to analyze that much information.
Unknown to either company, however, the decision for a takeover had already been made. Mr. Lockhart last week started interviewing potential candidates to replace the top executives. On Thursday, the last day of the Republican convention, Mr. Paulson met with President Bush in the Oval Office. Mr. Bush said the Treasury plan had his support.
The next day, Mr. Paulson called Mr. Syron and Mr. Mudd to separate meetings at the offices of Mr. Lockhart without saying why. Freddie was still looking for fresh capital and interviewing people for senior positions. But in his meetings, Mr. Paulson said he intended to put both companies into conservatorship. As part of that plan, Mr. Syron and Mr. Mudd would both be required to step down.
Mr. Mudd pleaded with Mr. Paulson to spare Fannie Mae, people with knowledge of the meeting said. He said that he abided last spring with regulators' demands to raise more capital, adding that the company was in better financial health than Freddie.
Mr. Paulson responded that Freddie was nearing a crisis and that, in the eyes of the markets, the companies were joined at the hip. He would not treat them differently for fear that similar problems, over time, would engulf Fannie Mae, but that time closer to the election. Mr. Paulson told both companies that they had no choice.
President Bush returned from Camp David, the presidential retreat, on Saturday morning. The Treasury secretary told him that the companies had reluctantly agreed to the plan. Shortly before 11 a.m. on Sunday, in a conference room across the hall from Mr. Paulson's office, the Treasury secretary and Mr. Lockhart signed the documents that give each company access to up to $100 billion in taxpayer money to cover future losses -- but also put Fannie and Freddie directly under government control.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The government had hoped to prop up Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with explicit federal backing, but investors were not sufficiently comforted. (PHTOGRAPHS, ABOVE, JAY MALLIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS, BELOW, PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A16) CHARTS: Quasi-Government Companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac: were created by the government to provide liquidity for the mortgage market.(Sources: Fannie Mae
Freddie Mac)
 Explosive Growth: Mortgages and securities owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. (Source: Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight)(A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); US LABOR DAY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); POLITICS (61%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); DAVIS POLK & WARDWELL LLP (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (68%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (79%); RICHARD F SYRON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%); BILL CLINTON (54%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); JOHN MCCAIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



203 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: A Sigh of Relief, but Hard Questions Remain on U.S. Economy: Few Stand to Profit, And Many Take a Loss

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Over the years, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac showered riches on many winners: their executives, Wall Street bankers and Washington lobbyists. Now the foundering mortgage giants are leaving some losers in their wake, notably their shareholders, rank-and-file employees and, in the worst case, American taxpayers.
But even after the government seized the mortgage finance companies on Sunday and dismissed their chief executives, the companies' outgoing leaders could see big paydays -- a prospect that angers many investors, particularly because ordinary stockholders could be virtually wiped out.
Under the terms of his employment contract, Daniel H. Mudd, the departing head of Fannie Mae, stands to collect $9.3 million in severance pay, retirement benefits and deferred compensation, provided his dismissal is deemed to be ''without cause,'' according to an analysis by the consulting firm James F. Reda & Associates. Mr. Mudd has already taken home $12.4 million in cash compensation and stock option gains since becoming chief executive in 2004, according to an analysis by Equilar, an executive pay research firm. 
Richard F. Syron, the departing chief executive of Freddie Mac, could receive an exit package of at least $14.1 million, largely because of a clause added to his employment contract in November of last year as his company's troubles deepened. He has taken home $17.1 million in pay and stock option gains since becoming chief executive in 2003.
Both executives stood to make millions more from restricted stock grants and options, but those awards are now worthless because of the plunge in the companies' share prices. Even so, their past pay -- and the idea that they might receive more -- irks some investors.
''This is completely outrageous,'' said Richard C. Ferlauto, the director of corporate governance and investment for the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, a large pension fund. ''It is really a slap in the face to shareholders and homeowners whose loans are at risk and taxpayers footing the bill for a bailout.''
Whether Mr. Mudd and Mr. Syron will collect their severance package is unclear. A spokeswoman for the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the companies' primary regulator, declined to provide details about their exit packages. F.H.F.A. officials said the compensation of their successors, Herbert M. Allison Jr. and David M. Moffett, both longtime financial industry executives, would be ''significantly lower'' than that of the departing chief executives.
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have enriched their top executives for years. Mr. Mudd's predecessor at Fannie Mae, Franklin D. Raines, took home more than $52 million while he was chief executive from 1999 to 2004, according to Equilar data.
Mr. Raines later agreed to forfeit several million dollars' worth of stock and options to resolve personal claims over allegations that Fannie Mae had inflated its earnings to raise executive bonuses. Even though Fannie Mae was forced to restate its earnings, Mr. Raines walked away with at least $25 million in pension benefits, as well as stock options he did not cash in -- many of which are now worthless.
Mr. Syron's predecessor at Freddie Mac, Leland C. Brendsel, took home more than $28.4 million from 1993 to 2003, the only part of his pay package that was publicly disclosed during his 13-year tenure as chief executive.
The shareholders of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, including many employees, will not be so lucky. The companies' share prices have plunged about 90 percent this year, wiping out about $70 billion of shareholder value. The shares are likely to be worth little or nothing under the government's rescue plan.
As a result, Wall Street money managers and everyday investors alike stand to lose big. Bill Miller, the star mutual fund manager at Legg Mason, increased his bet on Freddie Mac even as the company's shares plummeted this year. Last week, when Freddie Mac stock was trading at about $5, Legg Mason disclosed that it had bought an additional 30 million shares. Other value-oriented investors, including Rich Pzena and David Dreman, also placed big bets that the mortgage companies would recover. None of these money managers returned calls for comment.
''I am just shocked how they missed this, and why, when it became completely clear that the problem was snowballing, guys like Bill Miller doubled down,'' said Douglas A. Kass, head of Seabreeze Partners and an outspoken short-seller.
For years, the shares of Fannie Mae, the larger of the two companies, have ranked among the most widely held stocks in America. Many ordinary investors believed that the company's quasi-governmental status would insulate shareholders from big losses.
''People perceived they had government support of some sort,'' said Byron Wien, the chief investment strategist at Pequot Capital. ''The perception was they were more secure investments than they turned out to be.''
Members of the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac rank-and-file were big shareholders, too. Stock and options could make up a fifth of employees' total pay.
While those who bought the companies' shares lost, short-sellers who bet against Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac won. So-called short interest in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac stock soared in recent months as the companies' troubles deepened.
Among the most vocal short-sellers betting against the companies is William A. Ackman, who runs a hedge fund called Pershing Square Capital. Mr. Ackman was among the earliest to warn of the credit crisis, and he is believed to have landed a windfall after shorting both companies, according to a person with direct knowledge of a recent investment letter.
Wall Street investment banks, meanwhile, are breathing a sigh of relief. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac pay hefty fees to big Wall Street debt underwriters, and that is unlikely to change. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's business was worth $1.5 billion in fees in 2007, according to a Sanford C. Bernstein report. Through the first six months of this year, that figure sank to $600 million.
Washington lobbyists, however, may be hurting. Over the last decade, Freddie Mac paid more than $94.8 million for lobbying services, in part to fend off attempts to tighten oversight, according to the Center for Responsive Politics; Fannie Mae spent about $79.5 million. The government plan will immediately eliminate that spending.
Some commercial banks and insurance companies that hold the companies' preferred stock could suffer, too. Auditors may force those investors to mark down the value of the holdings. Sovereign Bancorp, a regional lender near Philadelphia, holds about $588 million of the securities, about 13 percent of its tangible capital, according to a research report by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, a securities broker.
Midwest Banc Holdings, a community bank in Illinois, and Gateway Financial Holdings, which operates in Virginia and North Carolina, each have tens of millions of dollars of the preferred stock, representing more than one-third of their tangible capital, the report said. And federal banking regulators said in a joint statement that a ''limited number'' of smaller banks could need new financing.
The Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., urged those institutions to contact their regulator, which said it was ''prepared to work with those institutions to develop capital-restoration plans'' and other corrective actions.
Correction: September 9, 2008, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about the potential winners and losers among investors after the federal rescue of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac erroneously included one major Wall Street investor on a list of value-oriented money managers who invested in the mortgage companies. The investor, Martin Whitman, of Third Avenue Management, has made large investments in other distressed financials, including MBIA and Ambac, but his fund does not own shares of Freddie or Fannie. The article also misstated the date that the contract of Richard F. Syron, the chief executive of Freddie Mac, was extended and amended to increase his potential severance package. It was November 2007, not July 2008.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Daniel Mudd, left, of Fannie Mae and Richard Syron of Freddie Mac are in line to collect millions in severance payments. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LEMARQUE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); SEVERANCE PAY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); COUNTIES (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (94%)

PERSON: DANIEL H MUDD (89%); RICHARD F SYRON (89%); FRANK RAINES (58%); HERBERT M ALLISON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



204 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Weighing Economic Plans To Attract Swing Voters

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Americans call the economy the top issue of the 2008 election, and both presidential candidates agree on the target voters: the ones Gov. Sarah Palin says ''do some of the hardest work in America -- who grow our food, run our factories and fight our wars.''
 That raises a question for the general election campaign that begins in earnest this week: Can Senator John McCain prevail without offering more for those voters' pocketbooks? 
 It arises from the paradox within the campaign themes Mr. McCain has laid out. He has joined Senator Barack Obama in expressing empathy for the travails of ordinary workers, and in calling for change.
 Yet the principal elements of Mr. McCain's economic agenda on taxes, trade, regulation and health care follow the philosophic outlines of a deeply unpopular Bush administration. In offering new, immediate economic benefits, Mr. Obama has far outbid his Republican adversary. 
 That hardly precludes Mr. McCain from attracting enough blue-collar votes to win in swing states like Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Virginia. He can appeal to those voters on issues of national security and cultural values, as well as by reviving traditional Republican attacks against tax-and-spend liberalism. 
 But deteriorating attitudes about the economy will test those themes more severely than in 2004, when President Bush won a narrow re-election. Some veterans of that campaign doubt the Republican prescriptions will be enough for Mr. McCain. 
 ''I don't see how he can win,'' said Jan van Lohuizen, a Bush pollster in 2004, ''if he doesn't talk about the No. 1 issue in every poll and say something besides generic Republican dogma.'' 
 The Proposals
 The housing and financial market crises that were highlighted again this week by federal action to rescue the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have underscored a theme Democrats have emphasized throughout the Bush era: While affluent Americans have reaped the benefits of economic growth, average families have been falling behind. 
 Mr. Obama and his aides cite this yardstick: Adjusted for inflation, the median income of working-age households has declined by about $2,000 since 2000. Mr. Obama, of Illinois, has offered an ambitious range of proposals to arrest that decline and help average workers compete in a global economy. 
 Those proposals include a new tax credit of $500 per worker, or $1,000 for two-worker households; a new mortgage interest credit, valued at an average of $500, for homeowners who do not itemize their tax deductions; and a college tuition subsidy of $4,000 per year for students who agree to perform community service. Mr. Obama would wipe out income taxes for older Americans earning $50,000 or less, saving some 7 million households an average of $1,400 apiece. 
 That's on top of the still-unspecified subsidies Mr. Obama would provide for the purchase of health insurance for those who don't now have it, the elimination of capital gains taxes for small start-up businesses and an increase in the existing dependent care tax credit that could save $1,100 for a single parent of two children who earns $40,000. To help finance these benefits, Mr. Obama has proposed tax increases on those earning more than $250,000, including on personal income, capital gains and dividends. 
 By comparison, Mr. McCain's list of proposals on this front is far more modest. He would double the existing child exemption to $7,000 from $3,500, but most tax-filers would not benefit because they have no dependent children or have incomes so modest that they already do not owe income taxes. Mr. McCain, of Arizona, would also offer a summer gas-tax holiday valued at about $30 a month.
 Mr. McCain's most ambitious proposal is a new $5,000 credit toward the purchase of health insurance. But for most workers, who already have employer-provided health insurance, the value of that credit would be offset by a new tax on those employer-provided policies. For a relatively small number of older workers forced into lower paying jobs by international competition, Mr. McCain would provide wage subsidies of up to $10,000 for as long as two years. 
 The Relevancy
 Mr. McCain hopes to appeal to working-class voters with broader arguments concerning his pledge to control spending, balance the budget and sustain the growth of exports. But Stan Greenberg, a Democratic pollster who advised Bill Clinton's 1992 campaign, calls those ''curiously abstract'' arguments at a time of economic anxiety. 
 On the economy and health care, added Don Sipple, a former Bush adviser, ''The G.O.P. is absent an agenda that relates to average Americans.'' 
 Mr. McCain could yet respond by supplementing his economic agenda. But for now Republicans are relying more on drawing personal contrasts between the 72-year-old Republican war hero and his comparatively inexperienced Democratic rival, who at 47 is bidding to become the first African-American president. 
 Some elections turn on ''arguments on a message about the future,'' but this may not be one of them, noted Kevin Madden, a Republican strategist. ''If McCain can continue to make this a race about the proven leader you know versus the unproven, self-styled idealist you don't know, he can win.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); TAX LAW (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); PERSONAL FINANCE (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); LIBERALISM (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (62%); TUITION FEES (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); SARAH PALIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008



205 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE HOT SEAT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: New Hampshire Race Focuses on the Pocketbook

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. -- Senator John E. Sununu, Republican of New Hampshire, one of the most vulnerable incumbents up for re-election this year, has trailed in polls for months. And a brutal new advertisement by his opponent literally puts Mr. Sununu in a hole -- showing a man who resembles the senator shoveling dirt from deep inside a gaping ditch.
''George Bush put our economy in the hole,'' the Democratic challenger, former Gov. Jeanne Shaheen, says in the commercial as the pseudo-Sununu keeps shoveling behind her. ''So why is John Sununu digging in the same failed direction?''
Mr. Sununu and his backers have their own spot just up deriding Mrs. Shaheen as a big spender who oversaw a doubling of the state budget in her six years as governor. ''Jeanne Shaheen and big-spending Washington?'' a voice-over grimly intones. ''She'll fit right in.'' 
With the fall campaign season now officially under way, Mr. Sununu and Mrs. Shaheen have come out slinging daggers. And like the presidential candidates, who are grappling for the mantle of change, the candidates down-ballot are doing so by clashing over practical kitchen-table issues -- the price of gasoline and home heating oil, health care costs, job security -- that make this race emblematic of Senate contests across the country.
The New Hampshire race reflects the national political climate that has many Republicans battling to keep their jobs as their opponents seek to tie them to President Bush and blame them for the ailing economy. It is an atmosphere so tough that several candidates, including Mr. Sununu, skipped the Republican convention in Minnesota last week to stay home and campaign.
''I am not a lawyer; I am not a career politician,'' Mr. Sununu said in a speech last week that underscored his need to distance himself from Washington-as-usual. ''I am an engineer by training. I have worked in small business.''
It was an interesting self-description by a man who worked in the private sector for about six years after graduate school but has spent twice as long -- nearly 12 years -- in Congress.
Still, the race here, a fierce rematch of a bruising contest six years ago, is also a near-perfect petri dish for how the issues, and the dynamics of the presidential contest, are shifting in ways that give Republicans hope. Mr. Sununu has already sought to seize the energy issue by portraying Mrs. Shaheen and the Democrats as obstacles to increased domestic oil drilling. He has also embraced the Republican nominee for president, Senator John McCain of Arizona, and his running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as the new, reform-minded faces of the party.
But Mr. Sununu is the incumbent, and as the race revved into high gear last week, there were also signs that Mrs. Shaheen's message about the economy was likely to find some resonance, a point underscored by the release on Friday of another report showing worsening national unemployment.
Recent polls show Mrs. Shaheen leading by double digits, as she has for most of the last year. And political analysts in the state say that in large part because of the economic circumstances, the race seems hers to lose -- a stark contrast from 2002, when Mr. Bush's popularity and the focus on national security and the war on terrorism strongly favored Mr. Sununu.
''On the economy, the bad news just keeps on coming,'' said Dante J. Scala, a professor of political science at the University of New Hampshire. ''She doesn't need to do much more than point to the hole, as she does in the ad, and say, 'Do you want more of the same?' ''
Mrs. Shaheen hammers the message in two new advertisements and at virtually every campaign stop, as she did last week when she accused Mr. Sununu of endorsing Bush economic policies, favoring big oil companies over the middle class, seeking to cut Medicare benefits for the elderly, opposing tax credits for renewable energy and blindly supporting the war in Iraq. Her second new commercial, with Carole King's ''Where You Lead, I Will Follow'' in the background, shows pictures of Mr. Sununu in various settings with Mr. Bush.
On Friday, during a visit to the Stonyfield Farm yogurt factory in Londonderry for a tour of the company's efforts to improve energy efficiency, Mrs. Shaheen sought to draw the contrasts even clearer.
''This is a critical race,'' Mrs. Shaheen, 61, told a small gathering of employees. ''It's a race about whether the country is going to continue with the status quo, which is where John Sununu has been, voting with George Bush 90 percent of the time.''
But no one is counting out Mr. Sununu, who this week turns 44 and is the youngest member of the Senate. He has amassed a huge campaign war-chest of more than $5 million that he has only recently begun to tap, and he is campaigning with gusto, emphasizing achievements in the Senate that he says show how he stood up to the Bush administration, including his fight for changes to the Patriot Act to protect privacy rights.
''Energy, taxes, health care, national security -- I feel very comfortable debating any of these issues,'' Mr. Sununu said in an interview in Plymouth, where he attended a spaghetti dinner for the local Republican club.
The New Hampshire race is a huge priority for both parties and an array of outside advocacy groups.
Democrats view Mr. Sununu as a chief target in the effort to expand their 51-to-49 control of the Senate. They hope to capitalize on a remarkable demographic shift in New Hampshire that has erased a longtime Republican advantage. Each party can now claim roughly 31 percent of voters, with 38 percent unaffiliated.
Republicans, meanwhile, see Mr. Sununu's race as an acid test: If he can hold on in this toughest of years and turn the issues of energy and taxes to his advantage, it would bode well for Republican incumbents in Maine, Minnesota, Oregon and other states whose opponents are typically not as well known or well financed as Mrs. Shaheen.
Mr. Sununu sought to do just that in a speech to supporters at a restaurant in Wolfeboro, where his audience munched on Goldfish crackers and shrimp. ''Barack Obama and Jeanne Shaheen, when they talk about an energy policy, they begin by listing all the things they won't do,'' Mr. Sununu said. ''They won't do nuclear. They won't lift the ban on offshore drilling. They won't pursue oil shale. That's wrong.''
Mrs. Shaheen says that she supports some additional drilling but that it is not a longterm solution.
It is not clear yet what effect Ms. Palin's selection as the Republican nominee for vice president might have on the Senate race. Even if she drives Republican turnout, it may not help Mr. Sununu, who needs to attract independent voters.
Mr. Sununu said he was happy to share the Republican ticket with Ms. Palin and Mr. McCain, who won the presidential primary in New Hampshire this year and in 2000.
Some state political analysts say the pro-drilling position on energy offers Mr. Sununu his best policy argument, in a state where residents are dreading home heating costs this winter -- even as Mrs. Shaheen tries to blunt his efforts by urging that the federal government triple its spending on home heating subsidies.
''Energy is big,'' said Andy Seale, a software engineer from Milford who is supporting Mr. Sununu. ''Iraq has kind of dropped from the forefront.''
And though the unemployment rate in New Hampshire, at just under 4 percent, is the lowest in New England, economic unease is palpable. ''It's hard to tell people it's a shallow recession,'' said Grant Bosse, a Republican candidate for Congress. ''People are still hurting.''
Linda L. Fowler, a professor of government at Dartmouth College, said the overall climate, including the rise of Democrats throughout New England, seemed to favor Mrs. Shaheen even though Mr. Sununu had some basis for claiming independence. ''I just don't know how effective he is going to be at separating himself from Bush,'' Dr. Fowler said. ''Sununu is probably smart to stay home and tend his own garden.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DEMOCRATIC CHALLENGER: The same parade in Milford also drew Mr. Sununu's opponent, former Gov. Jeanne Shaheen, who has been leading him by double digits in recent polls.
 REPUBLICAN INCUMBENT: Senator John E. Sununu, at the Labor Day parade in Milford, N.H., skipped his party's national convention last week to stay at home and campaign for re-election. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); HEATING OIL (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); HEATING OIL PRICES (65%); OIL EXTRACTION (65%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (65%); GASOLINE PRICES (65%)

PERSON: JOHN SUNUNU (94%); JEANNE SHAHEEN (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); SARAH PALIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (89%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (97%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



206 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1859 words

HEADLINE: MORTGAGE GIANTS TAKEN OVER BY U.S.

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON and EDMUND L. ANDREWS; Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration seized control of the nation's two largest mortgage finance companies on Sunday, seeking to shrink drastically their outsize influence on Wall Street and on Capitol Hill while at the same time counting on them to pull the nation out of its worst housing crisis in decades.
The bailout plan for the companies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, a seismic event in a year of repeated financial crises followed by aggressive federal intervention, places the companies in a government conservatorship, much like a bankruptcy reorganization. The plan also replaces the management of the companies.
The rescue package represents an extraordinary federal intervention in private enterprise. It could become one of the most expensive financial bailouts in American history, though it will not involve any immediate taxpayer loans or investments. 
The Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., who engineered the plan, would not say how much capital the government might eventually have to provide, or what the ultimate cost to taxpayers might be. Two months ago, the Congressional Budget Office gave a rough estimate of $25 billion. One senior government official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, signaled on Sunday that even that figure was optimistic.
Mr. Paulson said Sunday that it was important to rescue the mortgage giants because a failure of either company would cause turmoil in financial markets in the United States and around the world.
''This turmoil would directly and negatively impact household wealth: from family budgets, to home values, to savings for college and retirement,'' he said. ''A failure would affect the ability of Americans to get home loans, auto loans and other consumer credit and business finance. And a failure would be harmful to economic growth and job creation.''
The plan received wide bipartisan support on Sunday, from Congressional lawmakers and both presidential campaigns.
As part of the plan, the chief executives of both companies were replaced. Herbert M. Allison Jr., the former chairman of TIAA-CREF, the huge pension fund for teachers that also offers mutual funds, will take over Fannie Mae and succeed Daniel H. Mudd. At Freddie Mac, David M. Moffett, currently a senior adviser at the Carlyle Group private equity firm, succeeds Richard F. Syron. Mr. Mudd and Mr. Syron, however, will stay on during a transition period.
The plan also commits the government to provide as much as $100 billion to each company to backstop any shortfalls in capital. It enables the Treasury to ultimately buy the companies outright at little cost. It bans them from lobbying the government, putting an end to their ability to use their political machine on Capitol Hill.
It also eliminates dividend payments to current shareholders while protecting the principal and interest payments on the debt, now held by foreign central banks, financial institutions, pensions funds and others.
The Treasury will force both companies to shrink their portfolios over the long term; they now hold or guarantee about half of the country's mortgages. In addition, the government plans to buy significant amounts of their mortgage-backed securities on the open market, beginning with the purchase of $5 billion worth this month. This step, never before undertaken by the government, could begin to restore some confidence in the credit markets and lead to lower interest rates for home mortgages.
For the companies, the takeover caps an ignominious downfall. Fannie was created during the depths of the Great Depression, and Freddie in 1970, to help make mortgages more affordable for homeowners. The companies buy billions of dollars in mortgages each month from commercial lenders. Some are sold to investors as mortgage-backed securities; others are held by the companies in their own investment portfolios.
The plan represents a cease-fire in a decades-long ideological battle over the proper role of the companies. Free-market conservatives see the companies as extensions of ''big government,'' while Democrats have protected them as the main vehicle to promote affordable housing for middle- and lower-income people.
Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, and Lawrence H. Summers, a Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton, along with many other critics, have long maintained that the companies were too powerful politically and financially, and that their huge portfolios posed enormous risks to the financial system.
Moreover, these critics have complained, the companies have used their ability to borrow at low interest rates to dominate the mortgage-finance market, usurping the role of other financial institutions, which do not have the same subsidy.
Free-market adherents have warned of impending disaster as Fannie and Freddie used an implicit government backing to borrow at will, with only a tiny sliver of capital to protect them from nasty surprises like the recent sharp decline in housing prices and rise in foreclosures.
Mr. Paulson has sought to avoid taking sides in the debate, but in recent months came to the conclusion that the companies' conflicting missions of providing federally backed financing for affordable housing while serving shareholders were untenable.
''Market discipline is best served when shareholders bear both the risk and the reward of their investment,'' Mr. Paulson said on Sunday. ''While conservatorship does not eliminate the common stock, it does place common shareholders last in terms of claims on the assets of the enterprise.''
Holders of the companies' common stock will not fare well. The plan suspends their dividend payments and holds the potential to make their shares virtually worthless if the government chooses to exercise its right to buy the common stock. The stock of both companies, which traded above $60 a share last year, had fallen below $10 a share recently. Their shares will continue to trade and could fall further as a result of the government seizure.
Mr. Paulson made clear that the solution put forward on Sunday would only defer the most important decisions about the mission of the companies for the next president and Congress.
At a news conference on Sunday, Mr. Paulson said: ''There is a consensus today that these enterprises pose a systemic risk and they cannot continue in their current form. Government support needs to be either explicit or nonexistent, and structured to resolve the conflict between public and private purposes.''
The plan requires the companies to shrink their portfolios long after the administration leaves, officials acknowledged, adding that they hoped to prod Congress into deciding what the role of the companies should be.
Hoping to limit potential taxpayer losses and gain any financial windfall if the companies are restored to profitability, the administration, in exchange for the investment commitment, will receive so-called stock warrants, or purchase rights, for up to 80 percent of the companies' common shares at less than $1 a share. In after-hours trading on Sunday, Freddie Mac fell $1.06, or nearly 21 percent while Fannie Mae dropped $1.54, or 22 percent.
The companies agreed to provide the government with $1 billion of new preferred senior stock, which will pay the Treasury a dividend of at least 10 percent a year, as well as an unspecified quarterly payment to compensate the Treasury for any taxpayer money injected into the companies.
The companies will be allowed to ''modestly increase'' the size of their existing investment portfolios until the end of 2009, which means they can use some of their new taxpayer-supplied capital to buy and hold new mortgages in investment portfolios.
But in a strong indication of Mr. Paulson's wish to wind down the companies' portfolios, drastically shrink their role and perhaps eliminate their unique status altogether, the plan calls for the companies to start reducing their investment portfolios 10 percent a year, beginning in 2010.
In addition, the Treasury Department will create a so-called Secured Lending Credit Facility, a backup source of borrowing for the companies in the event that they cannot borrow enough money on the open market to finance their main business of buying mortgages and reselling them as pools of mortgage-backed securities.
While the government takeover seemed to catch some financial experts by surprise, Treasury officials appeared to have little choice, with the credit markets in a tailspin and investors reluctant to buy mortgages with even a hint of risk. Fannie and Freddie now guarantee about 70 percent of all new home loans, said Mr. Lockhart, the chief regulator of the companies.
The initial reaction to the plan was mostly positive. Senator John McCain, the Republican nominee for president, said on CBS's ''Face the Nation'' on Sunday that he supported the Treasury move, but he also implicitly criticized the Bush administration's oversight.
''It's an example of cronyism, special interest, lobbyists,'' he said, adding that the companies needed ''more regulation, more oversight, more transparency, more of everything, and frankly, a dramatic reduction in what they do.''
Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic nominee for vice president, said on NBC's ''Meet the Press'' Sunday that he had spoken to Mr. Paulson on Saturday night, and that he thought the plan had a good chance of succeeding. ''It's not an official reorganization. It will be left to the next administration and the Congress to make those judgments,'' Mr. Biden said.
After being briefed by Mr. Paulson, the billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett said: ''Secretary Paulson has made exactly the right decision for the country. He is minimizing the problem of moral hazard and maximizing the benefits for the housing market and for the smooth functioning of financial markets.''
Democratic and Republican lawmakers also spoke approvingly of the decision. They said that restoring stability to the financial markets was the top priority. But some longtime critics of the companies complained that their warnings had gone unheeded for too long.
''Fannie and Freddie were allowed to grow too quickly and for too long without the strong oversight required of such government chartered firms,'' said Senator John E. Sununu, Republican of New Hampshire, who is facing a tough campaign for re-election.
Asian stock markets rallied at the opening on Monday after the Treasury's announcement. The Tokyo market rose 2.8 percent and Australia's market jumped 3.2 percent.
Futures contracts on the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index jumped more than 2 percent in early Asian trading as investors concluded that the decision had strengthened the prospects for American businesses, particularly banks, and for the American economy.
The dollar and yen weakened against the euro and the British pound by late Monday morning in Asia as investors began to conclude that European economies might not be in as grave danger as they had seemed last week.
Treasury officials emphasized that the companies would open for business as usual on Monday and that, at least for now, almost nothing would change in their normal course of business.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry M. Paulson Jr.(A1)
 The Treasury secretary, Henry Paulson Jr., left, with the federal housing chief, James Lockhart. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); LOBBYING (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); JOB CREATION (63%); DIVIDENDS (62%); HISTORY (54%); CENTRAL BANKS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (85%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (57%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (85%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (90%); RICHARD F SYRON (58%); DANIEL H MUDD (56%); HERBERT M ALLISON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



207 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Facing Veto, Democrats Drop Plan for Vote on Child Bill

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Congressional Democrats have scrapped plans for another vote on expansion of the Children's Health Insurance Program, thus sparing Republicans from a politically difficult vote just weeks before elections this fall.
 Before the summer recess, Democrats had vowed repeatedly to force another vote on the popular program. But Democrats say they have shifted course, after concluding that President Bush would not sign their legislation and that they could not override his likely veto.
 Mr. Bush vetoed two earlier versions of the legislation, which he denounced as a dangerous step toward ''government-run health care for every American,'' and the House sustained those vetoes. 
 Congress returns on Monday for a session expected to last three or four weeks. Lawmakers say they will focus on energy legislation, essential spending bills and efforts to revive the economy and to create jobs.
 The fight over the children's insurance program prefigures a larger legislative debate, expected to start next year, over the future of health care and the role of government in providing it.
 Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, said: ''We are not going to change any votes on the children's health insurance bill. We still don't have enough to override a veto. Those who opposed this bill can face the voters and explain why they believe 10 million kids should not get health coverage.''
 The child health program has become an issue in some Congressional races. In almost every speech, Kay Barnes, a Democrat running for Congress in northwest Missouri, criticizes Representative Sam Graves, a Republican, for voting against the bill last year. Mr. Graves said the bill would have allowed illegal immigrants and some high-income people to get ''free taxpayer-funded health care.''
 House Democrats fell 13 votes short of the two-thirds majority needed to override Mr. Bush's first veto last October, and they were 15 votes short when they tried again in January. 
 Democrats cited several reasons for their second thoughts about the wisdom of another vote on the child health bill. The cost of the bill has increased, according to the Congressional Budget Office, though the revenues expected from higher tobacco taxes are about the same. Under current rules, Congress would need to find a way to defray the extra cost.
 In addition, time is short, and the Congressional calendar is packed with other issues.
 Bruce Lesley, president of First Focus, a bipartisan advocacy group for children, said: ''We definitely would prefer for Congress to vote on the legislation next year rather than this year. Why would you pass a bill now when, in six months, you could get a better bill covering more uninsured children?''
 Since it was created with bipartisan support in 1997, the program has reduced significantly the number of low-income children who are uninsured.
 The Census Bureau reported last month that the number of people under 18 without health insurance had decreased, to 8.1 million in 2007, from 8.7 million in the prior year. Economists say the number could climb this year because of the weak economy and rising unemployment.
 The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the bill, financed by an increase in tobacco taxes, would reduce the number of uninsured children by 4.4 million by 2013. But at the same time, the budget office says, the bill could encourage some families to substitute public for private coverage, reducing by 2.3 million the number of children who would otherwise have private coverage.
 A few House Republicans in tight races might switch sides and vote for the bill, in an effort to win the approbation of voters, Democrats say. But supporters of the bill believe that they would still not have enough votes to override a veto by Mr. Bush.
 Hispanic, black and Asian-American members of Congress have complained that the bill does not provide coverage for legal immigrants who are now generally barred from benefits under Medicaid and the children's health program during their first five years in the United States. 
 Many Democrats would like to lift those restrictions. But if they tried to do so, they could draw Congress into a bitter debate over immigration policy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''We are not going to change any votes'' on the health insurance bill, said Representative Rahm Emanuel, at right with Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Representative Steny H. Hoyer in October. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); VETO (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); CHILDREN (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); CAUCUSES (79%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); JOB CREATION (71%); ENERGY REGULATION (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (63%); CENSUS (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); RAHM EMANUEL (74%); NANCY PELOSI (59%); STENY HOYER (59%); SAM GRAVES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008



208 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: The G.O.P.'s New (Old) Sales Tactics

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Resentment Strategy,'' by Paul Krugman (column, Sept. 5):
 I agree that the G.O.P. is trying to sell the politics of resentment. But I think the problem goes much further. 
 One thing President Bush has done well has been to get so many people, often at an unconscious level, feeling that smart or educated or intellectual equals liberal equals un-American. 
 The result has been that the less educated you sound, the more of a patriotic American you are perceived to be. 
 In this way, Mr. Bush and other wealthy elites have been able to install policies that hurt poor, working- and middle-class Americans, while casting as snobbish elites those who think in nuanced ways about how to solve the real problems of ordinary Americans. 
 We live in a world of staggering complexity. As the last eight years have shown, we ignore that at our own peril.
 Kathy Roberson Middlesex, N.J., Sept. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The Republicans are blowing the usual smoke to get working-class people to vote against their economic interest. 
 Can you imagine Americans voting for John McCain to strike a blow against the wine-drinking, brie-eating coastal elites and denying themselves a decent health care system, a better economy and competent leadership? Believe it. It could happen.
 David Rawson New York, Sept. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman wonders about the source of Republican anger and traces it to class and economic resentment. I suspect that what really underlies Republican anger is fear. 
 The Republican core is scared that the dominance that white, Christian men have enjoyed in the New World since 1492 is slipping away. And they are right to be scared. The demographics are not on their side. 
 In just over 30 years, according to the latest projections, ethnic minorities (African-Americans, Latinos, Asians and Native Americans) will be the numerical majority and can form ruling political and economic coalitions. 
 The Democratic Party represents the interests of these groups far better than does the G.O.P. Republican resentment is not about the past or present, but about the future.
 David Levinson West Haven, Conn., Sept. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In ''A Glimpse of the New'' (column, Sept. 5), David Brooks writes that ''John McCain is trying to reform the Republican Party before a presidential defeat.'' But one must do more than redesign the soapbox by adding ''New and Improved'' to the label. The box's contents must change. 
 Unfortunately, Mr. McCain's soap is the same soap the Republican old guard has sold for decades -- tax cuts for the wealthy, reduced government regulation and drilling out of an energy crisis. He'd have us forget that we used this G.O.P. soap for eight years and it doesn't clean. 
 Gov. Sarah Palin may be a new package for the Republican brand, but the McCain-Palin ticket is the same old product in a new wrapper. 
 Joel Peskoff Baldwin, N.Y., Sept. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 After Barack Obama gave his inspiring speech to the Democratic National Convention, David Brooks commented on the Greek columns. Yet now he assesses Gov. Sarah Palin's address as ''smart and assertive'' and ''a tough vice-presidential speech.''
 I can't help but feel that Mr. Brooks is grading on a curve here. Perhaps he should use an Olympic-type system, where performers are judged not only on their performance, but also on the level of difficulty.
 Barack Obama's speech was an attempt to bring all Americans together under a vision of a better country. Ms. Palin's speech was an attempt to test out her comic timing and inject partisan rancor into the political discourse. 
 David Zweig Los Angeles, Sept. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks writes that John McCain and Sarah Palin have orchestrated a triumph for ''the forces of reform Republicanism,'' but adds that Mr. McCain did not delineate a policy shift. What is a reform without a policy?
 Tom Yager New York, Sept. 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SALES PLAN (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); ETHNIC GROUPS (67%); ETHNICITY (67%); TAX LAW (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008



209 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Working Harder to Keep Up

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Rich Man's Burden,'' by Dalton Conley (Op-Ed, Sept. 2):
 Many people who earn more than $100,000 a year have to work long hours because their jobs demand it, not because of a sense of economic inequality. 
 And as hard as their jobs may be, few of them would ever want to trade places with the millions of Americans who, despite working even longer and harder hours in low-wage jobs, are barely getting by.
 There is a real problem with economic inequality in America, and President Bush and his Republican friends have done everything possible to exacerbate it. Thanks to Republican policies, the rich have gotten very rich over the last eight years, and the rest of us -- including many middle-class professionals -- are less well off than we were eight years ago. We cannot afford more of the same.
 Ken Freedland St. Louis, Sept.
 2, 2008
 To the Editor:
 No doubt Dalton Conley is highly perceptive in identifying the ''economic red shift'' as the really wealthy pull away from those of us who are lucky enough to be considered beyond middle class and who find ourselves almost perpetually at work.
 But when one considers the frightening acceleration in the costs of commodities and services whose prices were considered affordable to the middle class a generation ago -- from tuition at a private college, through medical care and legal counsel, to such luxuries as a bottle of grand cru Burgundy -- many well-off baby boomers are driven simply to keep up with expectations that they acquired because their parents could easily afford them without having to work 60-to-80-hour weeks.
 David Schildknecht Cincinnati, Sept.
 2, 2008
 To the Editor:
 ''Rich Man's Burden'' brought tears to my eyes. Little did I know that earning more than $200,000 a year could be so painful.
 I thank my lucky stars that I am among the unburdened poor, those of us truly comfortable in our equality.
 Joey Borda Henry, Va., Sept.
 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TUITION FEES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); LAWYERS (67%); BABY BOOMERS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



210 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; FINDINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: As Barriers Disappear, Some Gender Gaps Widen

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
 When men and women take personality tests, some of the old Mars-Venus stereotypes keep reappearing. On average, women are more cooperative, nurturing, cautious and emotionally responsive. Men tend to be more competitive, assertive, reckless and emotionally flat. Clear differences appear in early childhood and never disappear. 
 What's not clear is the origin of these differences. Evolutionary psychologists contend that these are innate traits inherited from ancient hunters and gatherers. Another school of psychologists asserts that both sexes' personalities have been shaped by traditional social roles, and that personality differences will shrink as women spend less time nurturing children and more time in jobs outside the home. 
 To test these hypotheses, a series of research teams have repeatedly analyzed personality tests taken by men and women in more than 60 countries around the world. For evolutionary psychologists, the bad news is that the size of the gender gap in personality varies among cultures. For social-role psychologists, the bad news is that the variation is going in the wrong direction. It looks as if personality differences between men and women are smaller in traditional cultures like India's or Zimbabwe's than in the Netherlands or the United States. A husband and a stay-at-home wife in a patriarchal Botswanan clan seem to be more alike than a working couple in Denmark or France. The more Venus and Mars have equal rights and similar jobs, the more their personalities seem to diverge. 
 These findings are so counterintuitive that some researchers have argued they must be because of cross-cultural problems with the personality tests. But after crunching new data from 40,000 men and women on six continents, David P. Schmitt and his colleagues conclude that the trends are real. Dr. Schmitt, a psychologist at Bradley University in Illinois and the director of the International Sexuality Description Project, suggests that as wealthy modern societies level external barriers between women and men, some ancient internal differences are being revived. 
 The biggest changes recorded by the researchers involve the personalities of men, not women. Men in traditional agricultural societies and poorer countries seem more cautious and anxious, less assertive and less competitive than men in the most progressive and rich countries of Europe and North America. 
 To explain these differences, Dr. Schmitt and his collaborators from Austria and Estonia point to the hardships of life in poorer countries. They note that in some other species, environmental stress tends to disproportionately affect the larger sex and mute costly secondary sexual characteristics (like male birds' displays of plumage). And, they say, there are examples of stress muting biological sex differences in humans. For instance, the average disparity in height between men and women isn't as pronounced in poor countries as it is in rich countries, because boys' growth is disproportionately stunted by stresses like malnutrition and disease. 
 Personality is more complicated than height, of course, and Dr. Schmitt suggests it's affected by not just the physical but also the social stresses in traditional agricultural societies. These villagers have had to adapt their personalities to rules, hierarchies and gender roles more constraining than those in modern Western countries -- or in clans of hunter-gatherers. 
 ''Humanity's jaunt into monotheism, agriculturally based economies and the monopolization of power and resources by a few men was 'unnatural' in many ways,'' Dr. Schmitt says, alluding to evidence that hunter-gatherers were relatively egalitarian. ''In some ways modern progressive cultures are returning us psychologically to our hunter-gatherer roots,'' he argues. ''That means high sociopolitical gender equality over all, but with men and women expressing predisposed interests in different domains. Removing the stresses of traditional agricultural societies could allow men's, and to a lesser extent women's, more 'natural' personality traits to emerge.''
 Some critics of this hypothesis question whether the international variations in personality have more to do with the way people in different cultures interpret questions on personality tests. (For more on this debate, go to www.nytimes.com/tierneylab.) The critics would like to see more direct measures of personality traits, and so would Dr. Schmitt. But he notes that there's already an intriguing trend reported for one trait -- competitiveness -- based on direct measures of male and female runners. 
 Competitive running makes a good case study because, to mix athletic metaphors, it has offered a level playing field to women the past two decades in the United States. Similar numbers of males and females run on high school and college teams and in road races. Female runners have been competing for equal shares of prize money and receiving nearly 50 percent more scholarship aid from Division I colleges than their male counterparts, according to the N.C.A.A. 
 But these social changes have not shrunk a gender gap among runners analyzed by Robert Deaner, a psychologist at Grand Valley State University in Michigan, who classifies runners as relatively fast if they keep close to the pace of the world's best runners of their own sex. When Dr. Deaner looks at, say, the top 40 finishers of each sex in a race, he typically finds two to four times as many relatively fast male runners as relatively fast female runners. 
 This large gender gap has persisted for two decades in all kinds of races -- high school and college meets, elite and nonelite road races -- and it jibes with other studies reporting that male runners train harder and are more motivated by competition, Dr. Deaner says. This enduring ''sex difference in competitiveness,'' he concludes, ''must be considered a genuine failure for the sociocultural conditions hypothesis'' that the personality gap will shrink as new roles open for women. 
 If he and Dr. Schmitt are right, then men and women shouldn't expect to understand each other much better anytime soon. Things could get confusing if the personality gap widens further as the sexes become equal. But then, maybe it was that allure of the mysterious other that kept Mars and Venus together so long on the savanna. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 10, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The Findings column on Tuesday, about gender gaps, misidentified the educational affiliation of Robert Deaner, a psychologist who analyzed competitive runners. He is at Grand Valley State University, in Michigan -- not Colgate University, where he received his bachelor's degree.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VIKTOR KOEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (91%); GENDER EQUALITY (90%); MEN (89%); CHILDREN (77%); MALNUTRITION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (75%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); DENMARK (76%); UNITED STATES (75%); INDIA (70%); ZIMBABWE (70%); FRANCE (69%); ESTONIA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



211 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: First Steps and Leaps Of D.I.Y. Dance Company

BYLINE: By JULIE BLOOM

 BODY:
In December two professional dancers, Brandi Norton and Sonja Kostich, were sitting at the bar at the Mercer Hotel in SoHo tossing back cocktails. After hours of conversation mostly about the dearth of jobs, they got serious, switched to wine and did what countless slightly crazy souls have done before them: they decided to start their own company. Just 10 months after that conversation, their idea will become a reality when their troupe, OtherShore, makes its debut at the Baryshnikov Arts Center on Oct. 9. 
 Starting a dance company is no small feat, especially in this economic climate, but Ms. Norton and Ms. Kostich said they felt they had no choice. ''I had not been doing anything for a year, maybe a little bit more, but not because I didn't want to,'' Ms. Norton, 34, said. ''I very much wanted to be dancing and working with choreographers and making new work. But I couldn't find anyone that was -- I don't know how to say it without sounding awful -- that was inspiring, basically.'' 
 Ms. Kostich, 36, said she had dreamed of doing something like this since she was 10. Now she said she and Ms. Norton hoped to hire fellow artists who were overlooked or underemployed because of their age or freelance status. But that's not her only motivation. 
 ''Sometimes when you're in a production, you're in, you do it, you're out,'' she said. ''This way you're working with people you really like and you are deciding who you want to work with, what you want to do.''
 The women met through a fellow dancer but had never worked together before OtherShore. Ms. Norton, who was born in Kotzebue, Alaska, earned a bachelor's in fine arts from Juilliard and danced for nine years with the Trisha Brown Dance Company, leaving in 2006. Ms. Kostich, born in South Korea and raised in Minneapolis, began her career at 17 when she joined American Ballet Theater. She went on to dance with San Francisco Ballet, Zurich Ballet and the White Oak Dance Project of Mikhail Baryshnikov. She has also worked with the director Peter Sellars.
 On a recent summer afternoon their very different technical backgrounds -- Ms. Kostich's in classical ballet and Ms. Norton's in contemporary dance -- were on display during a rehearsal at the Baryshnikov Arts Center in Manhattan. As the light flickered through the shades in the fourth-floor studio, they went over a piece with its maker, Stacy Matthew Spence, formerly with Trisha Brown and one of three choreographers they have enlisted for their company's debut. 
 Ms. Norton, with her cropped hair and calm demeanor, moved with steady force; Ms. Kostich, with her dainty ballerina body, seemed more airy. In one section of Mr. Spence's piece, which suggests some of Trisha Brown's style and technique, Ms. Kostich was on her back on the floor, her forearms propping her body up. Ms. Norton, standing at an angle by her side, swung her leg back, just touching Ms. Kostich, who then rolled over, propelled by Ms. Norton's movement. 
 The two women said they were mainly seeking choreographers who could push them in new directions. Ms. Kostich said: ''We both see ourselves wanting to do more technical things, but that wasn't really the emphasis. The emphasis was who seems to be doing interesting work.'' 
 After running through the piece several times, they stretched out on the studio floor and reflected on their decision. ''Age is a huge factor,'' Ms. Kostich said. ''We're considered old in the dance world, but you're actually only starting to discover a whole new layer when you do get to our age.'' After that night at the bar, they called or e-mailed everyone they knew. In February they submitted a proposal to the Baryshnikov Arts Center with the idea of creating a company and included a list of the dancers, choreographers, artists, musicians and costume designers interested in participating. 
 In addition to the work by Mr. Spence, their debut program will include pieces by Edwaard Liang, who has choreographed for San Francisco Ballet, the Joffrey Ballet and Morphoses/the Wheeldon Company; and Annie-B Parson and Paul Lazar of Big Dance Theater. Other contributors are the fashion designer Jean Yu, the Tony Award-winning lighting designer Jennifer Tipton and the artist Mark Kostabi. The dancers are friends and colleagues too, with a range of credits that include Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane Dance Company, the Royal Danish Ballet and Metropolitan Opera Ballet.
 That breadth of experience is part of the reason the Baryshnikov Arts Center granted Ms. Kostich and Ms. Norton, who are co-directors of OtherShore, a residency and agreed to present these performances. Stanford Makishi, the center's executive director, said, ''It was really the combined histories of all the people involved.'' As for the idea of starting a company, he added, ''It's insanity, but they're putting everything they have into it.''
 Financially, the women are drawing on friends, family and colleagues: ''dancers, but also friends of friends who have real jobs and real incomes,'' Ms. Norton said. To make their own ends meet, the two women teach. Ms. Kostich leads classes at Dance New Amsterdam, and Ms. Norton was most recently on the faculty at the Stella Adler Studio of Acting. In addition Ms. Norton coaches other companies in Trisha Brown dances, and Ms. Kostich works as an assistant to Gia Kourlas, the Time Out New York dance editor, who contributes dance writing to The New York Times.
 After its first performances the company will appear at the 2008 Wave Rising Series in Dumbo, Brooklyn. After that its future is uncertain, but the two women look to Christopher Wheeldon and other dancers who have struck out on their own for inspiration. Like Mr. Wheeldon, Ms. Norton said, they too would like to one day take their company on tour. But Ms. Kostich said their main goal was more immediate: ''We want it to survive and stay alive.'' 
 Their years as dancers have taught them to be resilient, an attitude reflected in the company's name. OtherShore is inspired by the title of a play by the Chinese writer Gao Xingjian, which Ms. Kostich, who also choreographs, said she long thought would make an interesting dance. 
 But the name is also symbolic. After she left Trisha Brown, Ms. Norton said, she thought finding a job would be easier. ''But actually it was very difficult. So in the play 'The Other Shore,' when they realize that nirvana doesn't exist, it felt the same to me.'' 
 As it turned out, she said, ''what I imagined was so much smaller than what is coming to fruition now.'' 
 OtherShore is scheduled to perform Oct. 9-12, at the Baryshnikov Arts Center, 450 West 37th Street, Manhattan; (646) 731-3200 or othershorenewyork.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sonja Kostich, left, and Brandi Norton of OtherShore. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICHOLAS ROBERTS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Brandi Norton, left, Sonja Kostich and Stacy Matthew Spence, who has choreographed a piece for OtherShore's debut.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICHOLAS ROBERTS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (93%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); BALLET (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); THEATER (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%); MINNESOTA, USA (72%); ALASKA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (73%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



212 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Backs Off Civilian Nuclear Pact With Russia

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and BRIAN KNOWLTON; Steven Lee Myers reported from Rome, and Brian Knowlton from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration formally withdrew an agreement for civilian nuclear cooperation with Russia from congressional consideration on Monday.
 ''The president has notified Congress that he has today rescinded his prior determination regarding the U.S.-Russia agreement for peaceful nuclear cooperation,'' the State Department said in a prepared statement. ''We make this decision with regret.''
 The step is the most meaningful show of displeasure the United States has yet made over Russia's military action in Georgia. But it stops short of the more aggressive measures that some have proposed. 
 The White House has stepped up economic aid to Georgia, but it has so far ruled out providing military assistance. Similarly, the White House has not sought to impose economic sanctions against Russia or to revoke its membership in the Group of Eight, despite the strong warnings tha American officials issued as the crisis was unfolding that Russia would face consequences for its actions.
 Withdrawing the pact from congressional consideration is a less definitive step than canceling it; withdrawal leaves open the possibility that this administration or a successor could resubmit the agreement to Congress if tensions subside. And the pact's chances of winning approval any time soon had already grown cloudy. 
 ''After Russia's invasion of Georgia, it's not appropriate at this time'' to go ahead with the pact, a senior administration official said earlier on Monday, discussing the agreement on grounds of anonymity because the official announcement of the withdrawal had not yet been made.
 The announcement came the same day that a European delegation in Moscow said it had received Russian reassurances concerning Georgia and its intentions there.
 The withdrawal of the pact, which was submitted to Congress in May, could cost Russia billions of dollars in potential earnings, but will also unravel a program that is central to President George W. Bush's hopes of safely spreading the use of civilian nuclear energy.
 The agreement would have cleared the way for extensive commercial nuclear trade, technology transfers and joint nuclear research between the two countries. And it would have allowed Russia to move forward with the lucrative business of importing, storing and possibly reprocessing spent nuclear fuel from U.S.-supplied reactors around the world.
 ''The Russians have some very ambitious goals in developing their civilian nuclear reactor export industry,'' said Andrew Kuchins, director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, ''and to get to some of the newer markets, they have to have the United States stamp of approval.''
 Michael O'Hanlon, a national security specialist with the Brookings Institution, said the deal should be viewed primarily as a commercial one. ''It's not trivial,'' he said, in evaluating the impact of its withdrawal. ''But it's also not the breadbasket of Russia.''
 American officials have made clear the depth of their displeasure over Russia's brief war with Georgia. Vice President Dick Cheney, speaking Saturday at a conference in Italy after visiting Georgia, asked, called Russia's action an ''affront to civilized standards.''
 But officials also acknowledge the importance of Russian cooperation with the United States on a range of sensitive topics. Ultimately, the senior administration official said, ''the focus is trying to get back to a good relationship.''
 The nuclear cooperation agreement had already faced skepticism from American lawmakers who are angry at Russia for, among other things, resisting the imposition of tougher international sanctions on Iran over its nuclear program.
 The Russia-Georgia clash in early August appears to have ended any remaining chance it had of passage, at least for now.
 ''Its chances to pass before Aug. 8 were going to be a challenge, and after Aug. 8, they're zero,'' said Mr. Kuchins. The withdrawal of the accord, he said, is ''a recognition of the political reality.''
 In a statement, Representative John D. Dingell, the Michigan Democrat and chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, underlined the depth of congressional skepticism. ''Even without Russia's incursion into Georgia,'' he said, ''Russian support for Iranian nuclear and missile programs alone is enough to call into question the wisdom of committing to a 30-year agreement to transfer sensitive nuclear technologies and materials to Russia.''
 Mr. Dingell said his committee would continue to monitor Russian support for Iranian nuclear programs. 
 Senator John McCain, the Republican presidential candidate, has angrily denounced the Russian action in Georgia and has called for ousting Russia from the Group of Eight. Mr. McCain also favors blocking Russian aspirations to join the World Trade Organization.
 His Democratic rival, Senator Barack Obama, has said that Russia's application to the trade group should be reviewed.
 ''Unfortunately, the tendency right now on both sides is a strong momentum to kind of throw out the baby with the bathwater,'' Mr. Kuchins said. ''The Russians immediately announced that they're going to not abide by some W.T.O. accession agreements; they've bailed on NATO-Russia cooperation; and we respond by withdrawing the civilian nuclear cooperation agreement. It's a bad action-reaction cycle.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); NUCLEAR WASTE (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); IMPORT TRADE (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (61%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



213 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Soar on Takeover Plan

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ; Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Hong Kong, and Vikas Bajaj from New York.

 BODY:
Stock markets around the world rallied Monday after the federal takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, but even the most optimistic investors worried that other problems in the economy remain unaddressed.
 The Dow Jones industrial average initially shot up by 350 points and then fizzled slightly before recovering to close up 289.78 points, to 11,510.74. The Nasdaq composite index was down much of the afternoon, but closed with a 0.62 percent gain. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which was up 2.58 percent in early trading, closed up 2.05 percent, to 1,267.79, after sharp rallies on exchanges in Tokyo, Hong Kong and across Europe. 
 The dollar, which has been appreciating in recent weeks, staged another impressive rally, rising 0.83 percent against a basket of six major world currencies. The biggest move came against the euro, which fell to its lowest level in nearly a year, $1.4106, from $1.4243. 
 Financial stocks led the surge, propelled by hope that the government's decision had averted a calamity and marked a possible turning point in the credit crisis that has troubled banks for nearly a year. But investors have led several dizzying rallies this year on hopes that the worst was over, only to find their euphoria was premature. 
 Some doubts have already begun to emerge over whether the takeover would quickly resolve fundamental problems in the American credit and housing markets. ''This wasn't a magic wand,'' said James P. Dunigan, chief investment officer for PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia. ''We will probably still see some additional bank failures.''
 Several of the nation's largest financial institutions are in a predicament similar to homeowners who owe more than their houses are worth. Despite the broad rally in financial stocks Monday, Lehman Brothers, the troubled investment bank, fell 12.65 percent to $14.15. The company has been trying to shore up its financial health and is considering selling a money management division and spinning off some of its distressed assets into a new company.
 Shares in Washington Mutual, the nation's largest savings bank by assets, ended off 3.51 percent, to $4.12 after the bank confirmed it had replaced its chief executive and had signed an agreement with its regulators that required it to improve its risk management. 
 Shares of smaller banks and regional financial institutions that owned many preferred shares in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac also fell sharply after the government announced that it would stop paying dividends on those securities as part of the overall bailout. 
 Federal banking regulators on Sunday told banks to write down the value of those shares, which lost most of their value on Monday, as did the common shares of the two companies.
 ''This is a step that the Treasury had to take,'' Maxwell E. Bublitz, a strategist at SCM Advisors, an investment firm in San Francisco, said of the takeover of Fannie and Freddie. ''But it is really only a step in a journey that has a lot longer to go.'' 
 Still, the decision to place the two companies into conservatorship immediately lowered mortgage rates Monday by helping to drive up the price of bonds they issue. The average rate for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage fell to about 6.04 percent from 6.34 percent last week, according to HSH Associates, a publisher of mortgage industry data. That is down about 0.65 of a point from July. 
 Interest rates were slightly lower on Monday. The 10-year Treasury note rose 8/32, to 102 22/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 3.67 percent, from 3.7 percent Friday.
 But an important financial indicator showed that investors remain worried. The premium investors demand to hold mortgage securities, rather than Treasury notes and bonds, remains higher than what some analysts had expected after the government gave its own backing to those bonds. Those premiums should come down slowly, analysts say.
 The Treasury Department said Sunday it would start buying the companies' bonds, which should also lift prices, said Donald Brownstein, chief of Structured Portfolio Management, a hedge fund firm in Stamford, Conn.
 Policy makers believe that by investing in mortgages and backing Fannie and Freddie they will ease the decline in housing prices, which are down 18 percent from their 2006 peak. Mr. Brownstein said that lower rates would help, but would not be sufficient because many would-be homeowners and people looking to refinance cannot qualify for loans, regardless of how low interest rates go.
 ''To the extent that mortgages are lower, new home buyers will find it easier to buy homes,'' he said. But ''if you bought a house and the price of it is down by 20 percent, this is not likely to be that significant.''
 Another investor, Douglas A. Dachille, said the market would soon start focusing on the future of Fannie and Freddie. The Treasury and the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which regulates the companies, signaled on Sunday that the two companies under government control would roll back recent policies that had made mortgages more expensive. Policy makers have released few details on their plans.
 Whatever changes are made now will likely be reconsidered in January when a new administration takes office. Both presidential candidates have said that Fannie and Freddie cannot remain in their current form. 
 ''It's creating euphoria,'' Mr. Dachille, chief of First Principles Capital, said of the plan. ''But in two weeks or three weeks the question will be: Great, you put these guys into conservatorship, but what are you going to do differently than the management of these companies?'' 
 Following are the result of yesterday's auctions of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Traders at the New York Stock Exchange gathering before the opening bell to watch trades in Fannie Mae. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HENNY RAY ABRAMS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(C1)
A display of financial information in Tokyo. Global markets rose on Monday on news of the takeover plan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL CARONNA/REUTERS)(C4) CHART: Winners and Losers Among Investors (Sources: Treasury
Sandler O'Neill and Partners
 Bloomberg)(C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANK FAILURES (89%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (86%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); PREFERRED STOCK (79%); COMMON STOCK (79%); RISK MANAGEMENT (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); EURO (68%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (94%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (52%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (88%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



214 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: The Bailout's Big Lessons

 BODY:
As an act of crisis management, the government takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage-finance giants, was a reasonable and reassuring move. It ensures the flow of mortgage credit and is likely to reduce mortgage rates, which are important steps toward the eventual recovery of the ailing United States housing market. 
 And it does so while putting taxpayers first for future dividends or money that may be earned when the firms are reprivatized, holding out hope that the bailout costs may someday be recouped. Beyond the immediate crisis, however, the takeover raises disturbing issues that may get lost in the tumult of the moment.
 The need for an explicit bailout underlines the economic vulnerabilities of the United States. In July, Congress gave Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson unlimited authority to pay the debts of Fannie and Freddie and to shore up their capital, if need be. Yet investors the world over continued to doubt the companies' viability, shunning their securities or demanding unusually high interest rates on loans. In effect, investors deemed the government's commitment to Fannie and Freddie as either insufficient or not credible -- an extraordinary vote of no confidence that, in the end, led to the bailout.
 There is no single reason for the lack of confidence. But investors have good cause to be concerned about the deep indebtedness of the United States, about the nation's apparent political unwillingness to restore its fiscal health and about the ability of the government to responsibly make good on its commitments. A pledge of the full faith and credit of the United States still means something. That's why the markets responded favorably to the takeover. But investors' refusal to accept a promise to act is another sign of the need to reverse the fiscal mismanagement of the Bush years.
 The United States must acknowledge that its deep indebtedness is especially dangerous in times of economic crisis. The level and stability of American interest rates and of the dollar are now dependent on the willingness of foreign central banks and other overseas investors to continue lending to the United States. The bailout became inevitable when central banks in Asia and Russia began to curtail their purchases of the companies' debt, pushing up mortgage rates and deepening the economic downturn.
 The bailout is new evidence of the need for better regulation of the American financial system. As the housing bubble inflated, the Bush administration often claimed that America's unfettered markets were the envy of the world. But, in fact, they have sowed mistrust.
 The cost of the bailout needs to be carefully monitored. Fannie and Freddie own or back nearly $800 billion of generally junky mortgages, and some of those will inevitably go bad. So it is reasonable to assume that the cost could easily near $100 billion. There may be ways to make back some of that money later, but for a long time, the bailout will divert resources from other needs.
 Senators John McCain and Barack Obama have both voiced support for the bailout, which shows good judgment. But what the next president will need to worry about, and both candidates need to talk about, is the depth of the country's economic problems. It will take discipline and sacrifice to address them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



215 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Fly Coach, Share a Room

BYLINE: By PAUL BURNHAM FINNEY

 BODY:
For many trans-Atlantic travelers, gasoline at $3.65 a gallon is less grating than the $1.41 or so cost for one euro, Europe's currency.
 Despite its retreat from a peak of nearly $1.60 last April, the euro's muscle remains formidable, and Britain's pound sterling also has continued to be strong -- one pound is now the equivalent of about $1.75. Because of those unfavorable exchange rates, cost has become a major factor in planning a European business trip. 
 ''I fly business class to London but stay with a friend,'' said Jordan Ringel, a New York lawyer with international clients. In Paris, he does the same. When traveling outside Europe's euro zone, to major cities like Shanghai or Buenos Aires, he says he customarily stays in Four Seasons and other upscale hotels. 
 Many other American business travelers also are seeking alternatives to expensive hotels, from bed and breakfasts to the homes of long-lost relatives.
 Shunning expensive taxis, some frequent business visitors to London now walk or ride bicycles to appointments -- or ride the Underground, the city's aging subway system. 
 The game of trying to beat exchange rates takes many forms.
 ''American business travelers are making their European trips as short as possible, particularly to London,'' said Caleb Tiller, a spokesman for the 4,000-member National Business Travel Association. ''I heard about one business traveler who round-trips it to Europe and back home in 30 hours without staying at a hotel'' by planning flights over and back when he can sleep on the plane and still get a day's work done in Europe.
 Other businesses are moving multinational meetings to the United States, significantly lowering costs based on the advantageous euro-to-dollar exchange rate, Mr. Tiller said.
 One American hotelier recounts how a German businessman he knows flew to the Twin Cities, went on a spending spree at the Mall of America, got back on a plane and returned to Stuttgart loaded with bargains. Typical of the foreign invasion is a sign in the window of a boutique in East Hampton, N.Y.: We Accept Euros.
 The strong euro hurts even more when coupled with the slowing economies here and in Europe. In a survey of some 125 travel managers, 49 percent said they had cut travel spending in the last year, according to Susan Gurley, executive director of the 2,500-member Association of Corporate Travel Executives, who traces the belt-tightening partly to skyrocketing oil prices.
 ''Most companies are getting tougher on enforcing compliance with travel rules,'' she said. ''These days supervisors want to know exactly what a traveler expects to accomplish before signing off on a European trip.'' Some business travelers are even being forced to cope occasionally with a particularly unattractive form of austerity when venturing into euro territory: doubling up in hotel rooms. ''It's a new thing rarely done before,'' said Ms. Gurley, ''and not popular.'' 
 The crackdown ranges from the expected to the unpleasant. Companies encourage employees to fly on low-fare airlines, like Ryanair, and, in some cases, even forbid business class on trips to Europe. 
 Some companies have turned to sophisticated teleconferencing like Telepresence from Cisco and Halo from Hewlett-Packard. Frank Schnur, vice president of strategic planning at American Express, says there may be ways to cut costs painlessly. ''Take advantage of advance-purchase deals,'' he said. ''One out of two business travelers don't even ask for -- or know about -- preferred rates that their employer has negotiated.''
 He also advised business travelers to ''travel like an entrepreneur rather than what I call the entitled corporate traveler.''
 ''It's a sandwich rather than sushi for lunch,'' he said. ''The entitled travelers want to be comfortable and do what's convenient, but that flies in the face of economic realities like the euro's strength and deteriorating business conditions.''
 The euro was a weakling when 11 members of the European Monetary Union began replacing French francs, Italian lire, Deutsche marks and other European currencies with euros in a sweeping currency changeover on Jan. 1, 1999. It opened at $1.17 on foreign exchange markets, and was already sinking toward $1 by April, pleasing American travelers.
 But by December 2004, the euro was costing business travelers $1.36, the start of a 25 percent decline in the dollar's value over the last four years, according to the Federal Reserve.
 Besides Britain, a dozen East European and Scandinavian countries still do not use the euro. An American doing business in Eastern Europe recalls how startled she was when A.T.M.'s in Budapest and Prague dispensed Hungarian forints and Czech koruna. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A currency exchange board in August. The dollar is still weak enough to pinch Americans in Europe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY RAIN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); EURO (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); BRITISH POUND (77%); CITY LIFE (74%); EURO ZONE (73%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



216 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: To Change Washington, Move Out

BYLINE: By MARK W. EVERSON. 
Mark W. Everson was the commissioner of internal revenue from 2003 to 2007.

 BODY:
AMERICANS appear eager for real change in Washington and for their politicians to work across party lines. Here's a proposal that could accomplish both: Decentralize the executive branch of government. 
 No other element of our society is as concentrated as the leadership of our federal bureaucracy. Our agricultural, energy and industrial bases are widespread, as are our educational, religious and cultural institutions. Even the financial system, while centered in New York, has significant components in other cities.
 The concentration of top-level civil servants in Washington poses an undue risk in this age of terrorism, of which we are acutely reminded this week. 
 In addition, the high cost of living in and near the District of Columbia chases away talent. And this problem will only get worse with the retirement of senior managers, most of whom started their careers under a generous retirement plan that made it worthwhile to stay on the job until at least their mid-50s. Younger managers, lacking such incentive, are more likely to be lured away by lucrative opportunities in the private sector.
 The median salary for a federal employee in the Washington area is more than $90,000. Contractors, consulting firms and other organizations in the area that work for the government pay considerably more, and the huge increase in government spending since 2001 has produced remarkable wealth. Several Washington-area counties are now among the richest in the nation. It makes no sense to continue spending taxpayers' money in an already wealthy region while other areas struggle economically.
 Three years ago, I suggested the idea of moving the headquarters of the Internal Revenue Service to New Orleans, thinking that a federal campus there, providing some 7,000 stable, well-paying jobs, could anchor redevelopment after Hurricane Katrina. Such a move could still be a boon to recovery in New Orleans. And the same could be done for regions like the Midwest, where car makers and other industrial employers are contracting. 
 The best candidates for relocation would be departments like Homeland Security and Veterans Affairs, which are more involved in operating government than in making policy. 
 The least likely to leave Washington would be the four cabinet departments that constitute the core of government: State, Treasury, Justice and Defense. But headquarters for pieces of these departments -- the I.R.S. within Treasury, for example, and the Drug Enforcement Agency within Justice -- could be moved to places like Michigan, Ohio and Missouri, states that already have a large educated work force. 
 Protectors of the status quo might argue that such decentralization would not allow proper Congressional oversight. But consider the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It works just fine in Atlanta. 
 Running government operations outside the Beltway would more equitably distribute government jobs and at the same time help limit the undue influence of Washington. John McCain and Barack Obama both say they want to change Washington and partisan politics. If they mean it, they should give this proposal serious attention.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 10, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on Tuesday, about moving government jobs out of Washington, referred incorrectly to a government entity. It is the Drug Enforcement Administration, not Drug Enforcement Agency. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COST OF LIVING (76%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); TERRORISM (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); TAX AUTHORITIES (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (66%); HURRICANES (63%); HURRICANE KATRINA (63%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (61%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (61%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (60%); RELIGION (56%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (50%); AUTOMAKERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



217 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Borrowing Slows in July To 2.1% Pace

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Borrowing by consumers slowed in July to the weakest pace in seven months, reflecting a slowdown in demand for car loans. 
 The Federal Reserve reported Monday that consumer borrowing grew at an annual rate of just 2.1 percent in July, the slowest pace since a 1.9 percent rise last December.
 The slowdown reflects a tiny 0.5 percent rate of growth in the category that includes auto loans, down from a 6.1 percent surge in this category in June. Automakers reported that demand for cars fell in July to the lowest level in 16 years.
 The category that includes credit cards grew at an annual rate of 4.8 percent in July, up from a growth rate of 3.5 percent in June.
 The 2.1 percent growth rate for total credit represented an increase of $4.5 billion, far smaller than the $8.8 billion rise that economists had been expecting and down from a gain of $10.96 billion in June.
 Consumers have been forced to charge more of their purchases to credit cards as banks have tightened lending standards. That has curtailed consumers' use of home-equity loans to finance their spending.
 The concern is that all types of consumer spending will slow significantly in coming months as the impetus from $106.7 billion in economic stimulus payments wears off.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Consumer Borrowing: Net change in total consumer debt, excluding mortgages, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Federal Reserve Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER LENDING (92%); PERSONAL DEBT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



218 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Storm Long Past, Darkness and Heat Still Cling to Baton Rouge

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER; Jeremy Alford contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BATON ROUGE, La. -- The fearsome heat of a South Louisiana summer, unmediated by air-conditioning, reduces the strong to a primal struggle and sends the weak to the hospital.
Thousands here are enduring it this way seven days after Hurricane Gustav. Nearly 40 percent of the city's electrical power remains out, and the principal utility, Entergy, says it will be the last week of September before everyone's electricity here in the state capital is restored.
Whole neighborhoods are sweating it out, discovering things about the natural setting, themselves and their neighbors they did not know and in some cases did not particularly want to know. Front doors are open, generators are humming, downed tree limbs are piled high, and the people are dripping. 
Power blackouts have been widespread in South Louisiana in the last week. More than 200,000 of Entergy's customers in Louisiana were still without power Monday, down from nearly 829,000 immediately after the storm.
''It's sort of paralyzed the economy of the state,'' said Foster Campbell, a member of the Louisiana Public Service Commission.
Politicians are fuming, literally and figuratively. Several are vowing investigations and promising a closer look at warding off the failures that are, in Louisiana, as common as the violent summer storm.
This one, however, is a marathon. And it is particularly hard to swallow now that New Orleans, the resented city downriver, has had its power restored, and just downright unpleasant when the thermometer reads 95 and the humidity is right there with it.
''I'm not coping; I'm just existing,'' said Marilyn O'Brien, standing outside her son's house in Capital Heights, a pleasant district of 1920s houses under towering trees, many of them now fractured by the storm. Ms. O'Brien looked haggard. The yard was covered in downed power lines and chunks of tree trunk her son had diligently sawed. He has no power, and neither does she.
''I don't know how the Iraqis have done it,'' she said. ''Your energy's zapped, and you're wet. My clothes feel like another layer of skin. And I've not slept in a week.''
Down the street, the power failure sent 73-year-old Verien Flaherty to the hospital with heat exhaustion and dehydration by the second day. Her little house, she said stoically, had become ''quite hot and smelly.'' By Monday, though, her son had procured a generator, and she was sitting in the darkened living room.
Nearby were fleets of Entergy trucks, not working fast enough for most of the people here. Entergy says the hurricane roared right up the path of its major transmission lines, knocking out all 14 of them between here and New Orleans. Some 8,000 poles went down too, all carrying above-ground wires. Giant steel towers holding the lines were pushed to the ground like a child's Erector set.
Alex Schott, a spokesman for Entergy, said the company was ''restoring power at record speeds.'' The company's lines suffered ''a lot of damage,'' Mr. Schott said, and Baton Rouge was ''where the brunt of it occurred.''
Even longtime critics of Entergy, a profit-making regional energy company that is a monopoly or near-monopoly in many places and whose stock has steadily risen over the last eight years, say burying the power lines may not be practical in a place like South Louisiana, where water is rarely far from the surface.
But there could be other ways of protecting the power system from the strong storms that regularly batter this coastal state. Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, said Monday that she was working on legislation to give the government a role in strengthening the transmission lines here, ''so that when disaster strikes, our communities will not be faced with needless and endless power outages.''
Mr. Schott said Entergy might be interested in such strategies, ''as long as costs are recoverable'' -- in all likelihood, paid by the customers.
An aide to Ms. Landrieu spoke of encasing the lines in reinforced pipe, as is done in Europe.
Mr. Campbell, the public service commissioner, said it was ''totally unacceptable for people to be out two, three weeks without electricity.'' He made note of what has become a particular irritant in light of the failures, the sky-high power bills that are a feature of life here.
''There's a great irony here: we have some of the poorest people in the country, and some of the highest utility rates in the Southeastern U.S.'' said Mr. Campbell, who added that he was ''not interested in giving Entergy any money for this storm.''
In Capital Heights, the accent was on stoicism. ''Our house is sweaty hot,'' said Kelly Nelson, a hospital physical therapist. ''You go to sleep at 9 o'clock, you wake up at 11 at night, hoping it's time to go to work.''
Across the street, Keith Morris, an artist, was wet but smiling. ''It's O.K.,'' he said. ''I'm 58 years old. I've lived in Louisiana and in Siberia, and it's a hell of a lot easier here than in Siberia.''
For others, the unwonted exposure to that basic element of Louisiana life made them rethink a commitment that often demands so much. ''I've lost my attachment to something that hurts me,'' Ms. O'Brien said.
''It has beaten me up, so I feel like divorcing it,'' she said. ''I would leave Louisiana.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Three days after Hurricane Gustav passed on Sept. 1, Anna West, at right with her son Anton Guevara-West, and Zahli and Mira Bhayroo took shelter at the Baton Rouge, La., home of Lori Waselchuk, a freelance photographer. Power was restored on Sunday, but most nearby houses still had no electricity on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LORI WASELCHUK)
Matt Dew, left, and Joey Willard, employees of a Georgia tree service, removing debris from the storm at a house in Baton Rouge. At left, one of many crews working to restore power. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIM MUELLER/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 MARK SALTZ/THE ADVOCATE, VIA A.P.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); HEAT STRESS DISORDERS (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); PARALYSIS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%)

COMPANY: ENTERGY CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: ETR (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (95%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



219 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Despite Tight Economy, New Jersey Presses On With School Projects

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

DATELINE: PATERSON, N.J. 

 BODY:
Here in one of New Jersey's poorest cities, School No. 3 is so short on space that speech and music lessons are given in a converted coatroom and the ''library'' has been pared down to just one shelf of books. Nearly half the 430 elementary students eat lunch at their desks because there is no room in the cafeteria. 
 ''We need to have a new building because we cannot accommodate all the activities here,'' Grisell Hernandez, the principal of the 109-year-old school, said on Wednesday, the first day of class. ''The students, they have to make do with a lot.''
 So Mrs. Hernandez was elated this summer when Gov. Jon S. Corzine signed legislation authorizing $3.9 billion for school construction, with a replacement building for School No. 3 to break ground in 2011 among the 53 listed projects. But many Republican legislators and residents are outraged at the large expenditure during an economic downturn, and say it should have been put to a voter referendum. 
 Even some parents and educators have questioned the investment, arguing that it would be better spent on academic improvements, like training teachers and reducing class sizes.
 ''Transplanting an ineffective school from an old building to a new one is not going to change the quality of education,'' said Derrell Bradford, deputy director of Excellent Education for Everyone, a statewide advocacy group for parents. ''No one would be upset about school construction if students were already receiving a top-flight education.''
 Steven M. Lonegan, state director of Americans for Prosperity, a conservative group that advocates limited government, low taxes and a free market, has sued to block the sale of bonds to finance the school construction, contending that it is unconstitutional; a hearing has been scheduled for this month. Mr. Lonegan, the former mayor of the borough of Bogota, said that many of the state-financed schools had been outfitted with unnecessary luxuries and that local districts, and not the state, should be responsible for paying for their own school buildings.
 ''Local governments built their schools in New Jersey for over 200 years,'' he said. ''As soon as the state got involved, costs skyrocketed, corruption ran rampant and taxpayers suffered.'' 
 The state-financed construction initiative stems from a 1998 State Supreme Court ruling that students in poorer cities should have buildings comparable to those in wealthy suburbs. State leaders approved the issuance of $8.6 billion in bonds, reserving $6 billion for poor districts, and created the Schools Construction Corporation in 2002. 
 But after completing 30 new schools and 26 renovations, the agency was forced to suspend 315 other projects in 2005 because it ran out of money. An audit by the state's inspector general concluded that the schools corporation was susceptible to ''mismanagement, fiscal malfeasance, conflicts of interest and waste, fraud and abuse of taxpayer dollars.''
 The agency has since been overhauled and renamed the Schools Development Authority. Scott A. Weiner, the chief executive officer since 2006, said the agency had tightened oversight of spending and planning, developed a system for prioritizing projects, and created a reserve fund for contingencies to ensure that the problems of the past were not repeated. ''We like to think of ourselves as a better-evolved, turned-around school construction program,'' he said. 
 The new portfolio of projects approved this summer calls for about $2.9 billion to be spent on 53 new buildings and renovations in the state's poor urban districts during the next five years; each of the 31 districts classified as poor was eligible to receive money for at least one project, but no more than four, based on a priority list approved by state education officials. An additional $1 billion is to finance school buildings in suburban districts. 
 Governor Corzine and state education leaders contend that they have a legal and moral obligation to provide safe and adequate schools to all children, and that the large-scale investment will lead to other economic benefits. An analysis by two Rutgers University researchers, Michael L. Lahr and Aaron R. Fichtner, concluded that the school construction would create an average of 9,357 full-time jobs annually over the five-year period, more than two-thirds of them in construction and manufacturing, and generate a total of $3.3 billion in profits for businesses and salaries for workers.
 ''On direct returns from the construction effort, one could do better,'' Dr. Lahr said. ''But from an economist's perspective, there are few things that provide better long-term investment returns than education.'' 
 In Union City, the 10,500-student district will receive $47 million to build a new elementary school for students who are currently bused to a rented school building in the neighboring township of Weehawken. Because the district's 13 school buildings are filled to capacity, it spends $1.7 million a year to lease class space in former parochial schools and commercial buildings. 
 ''It has a ripple effect,'' said Anthony N. Dragona, the school business administrator. ''When the students and staff are able to have a space that is bright and clean and conducive to learning, it shows there is a commitment and everyone steps up their game.''
 Paterson, which was once known as the ''silk city'' because of its textile mills, will receive $221.9 million to build four new elementary schools, including $79.2 million to replace School No. 3. District officials said many of the 52 schools here lacked amenities -- cafeterias, libraries, gyms, science labs -- that are taken for granted in many suburban schools. For instance, because there is no faculty parking lot at one elementary school, teachers have to park on the street -- and often run outside between classes to feed the meters. 
 Last September, the 24,000-student Paterson district was forced to close all its schools for two days right after the first day of class to correct nearly 200 fire code violations, many of them resulting from the aging and overcrowded condition of the buildings, district officials said. 
 ''The new schools we get will make it nicer for some people, but it does not solve the problem,'' said Dennis J. Clancy, the interim superintendent. ''We have buildings here where some of the very people who are saying we can't do this would never allow their kids to go to school.''
 At School No. 3, temporary trailers for overflow classes have been parked out back since at least the 1970s -- so long that they have been replaced twice. The main building has one set of bathrooms for all three floors, so classes have to take turns scheduling bathroom breaks. 
 In a converted coatroom, Nelson Mendez, a music teacher who was once a student at the school, teaches children amid music stands and drums stacked against the wall. Because there is not enough room for his 40 band members to rehearse together, they use the science lab at lunchtime or practice separately. 
 ''When you have limited space,'' Mr. Mendez said, ''you have to be flexible.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (89%); SCHOOL BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); BONDS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TEACHER EDUCATION (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); REFERENDUMS (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); LITIGATION (68%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); MAYORS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); APPROVALS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); LEGISLATION (54%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



220 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: Arts and Humanities Prizewinners Announced By Heinz Foundation

BYLINE: Compiled by JULIE BLOOM

 BODY:
The visual artist Ann Hamilton is the recipient of the 14th annual Heinz Award for the Arts and Humanities, the Heinz Family Foundation announced. She will receive one of five awards of $250,000. Ms. Hamilton, 52, of Columbus, Ohio, is a professor of art at Ohio State University. The other winners of this year's Heinz awards are Brenda Krause Eheart (the human condition); Thomas FitzGerald (the environment); Robert Greenstein (public policy); and Joseph DeRisi (technology, the economy and employment). The awards are given in memory of Senator John Heinz of Pennsylvania by the foundation, which is led by his widow, Teresa Heinz Kerry. The awards will be presented at a private ceremony in Pittsburgh on Oct. 21. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); VISUAL ARTS (88%); VISUAL ARTISTS (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (71%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (51%) OHIO, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



221 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: A Dilapidated Tract of Queens, and a Fight to Control Its Future

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
With their patched zinc roofs and graffiti-covered walls, the auto repair shops are the most visible and unsightly presence in the bedraggled industrial triangle known as Willets Point. Squeezed between the Mets' new stadium and the Van Wyck Expressway, near the No. 7 line's penultimate stop in Queens, the area has no sidewalks or lights to brighten its unpaved roads, no sewers, piped water or heat. 
 In most of the shops, and in the junkyards speckled among them, buckets double as toilets and kerosene torches serve as radiators, while the constant trickle from a hydrant functions as a communal sink. It gets so cold in winter that men who have worked there for a while, like Jorge Sabando, 56, a mechanic from Ecuador, wind up with arthritis and take over-the-counter painkillers to carry them through the day.
 ''This,'' Mr. Sabando said, ''is not a place for the frail.'' 
 No one seems to disagree that Willets Point needs help. But when Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg unveiled a plan last year to overhaul the area with a hotel, school and convention center, homes, offices, parks and retail stores, two distinct groups rose up in opposition.
 One comprises the owners of the area's largest businesses, who own half the land in Willets Point and who have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on lobbyists, consultants and political contributions to the City Council members who will vote on the city's plan.
 The other consists of auto shop workers and shop owners who rent space in Willets Point. They are, for the most part, poor and Latino, and can afford to do little more than print T-shirts denouncing the project. 
 In public, the two groups present a picture of perfect unity, waving signs and chanting, ''Justice for Willets Point.'' But in reality, each side is motivated by different concerns and fears about its survival. 
 The Bloomberg administration has stepped up efforts in recent weeks to find new space for the big-business owners, offering above-market prices for some of their land. 
 But most owners say they will not leave Willets Point and will fight the city should it try to seize their properties by eminent domain. The small-business owners, on the other hand, are willing to move, but city officials said that they could not relocate the renters until the city had acquired all the land in Willets Point. And even then, there may not be a place to put all of them. 
 The small-business owners say they feel neglected by the deep-pocketed big-business owners and are unsure of their future.
 ''This is a power game, and we're the weakest player,'' said Arturo Olaya, an immigrant from Colombia who has run an auto body shop for 15 years at a rented garage on 36th Avenue.
 There are an estimated 255 business in Willets Point and about 90 percent of them are thought to operate from rented space, according to city figures, which are imprecise because of the patchwork nature of the neighborhood. 
 The larger companies employ about 1,200 people and have held billions of dollars in contracts with the city over the years -- to provide sewer and water pipes, repair bridges and roads, and clean up the World Trade Center site after the Sept. 11 attacks. 
 But now the owners say they feel betrayed by city officials.
 ''The very hands that fed them are the hands they're going to shoot,'' said Daniel Feinstein, owner of Feinstein Iron Works, which produces most of the structural steel used in public school construction in the city. ''But guess what: We're fighting back.'' 
 The Bloomberg administration is already facing hurdles. In a letter to the city's Planning Commission, 32 City Council members said they would reject the plan if the city did not take eminent domain off the table. And just as the city reached a handshake agreement with the owner of a waste management company, a previous deal with a junkyard owner hit a roadblock when it was discovered that zoning rules did not allow that kind of business at the site where it was to relocate. 
 The area's largest business owners, who have formed a group called the Willets Point Industry and Realty Association, have held weekly meetings to discuss strategy and, one person familiar with the meetings said, to compare offers they have received from the city.
 Since 2006, when the Bloomberg administration asked developers for proposals to revamp the area, Mr. Feinstein and the other members of the association have paid almost $200,000 to the lobbying firm of the former City Council speaker Peter F. Vallone Sr. and hired the public affairs firm that employs the former mayoral candidate Fernando Ferrer, who will try to persuade the Council to reject the project this fall. The association also filed a federal lawsuit against the city in April for failing to provide basic utility and public works services in Willets Point. 
 The group's members have contributed almost $180,000 since 2006 to the campaigns of eight City Council members from Queens, including $45,000 to Melinda R. Katz, who chairs the Council's Land Use Committee, and $60,000 between January and July to Councilman Hiram Monserrate, whose district includes Willets Point and who has been one of the development plan's most vocal opponents.
 The auto repair shop owners and their workers, for their part, have had little beyond determination and $4,000 in cash to press their point. Earlier this year, Mr. Olaya, the Colombian immigrant, and Sergio Aguirre, a community organizer who once repaired cars in Willets Point, started their own group, the Willets Point Defense Committee, with 40 paying members who contributed $100 apiece to finance their efforts.
 They have used the money to buy the white-and-green shirts they wear at protests, print signs and rent a bus that took them to a public hearing held last month by the Planning Commission, which will vote on the project on Sept. 24. 
 One of the group's members, Blas Olivares, an arthritic 52-year-old from Chile who has an auto-glass repair shop on 36th Avenue, said some of the lobbyists working for the big-business owners' association have offered their services. ''Five thousand dollars a month is one of the prices that I recall,'' he said. ''We wish we could have the help, but we can't afford it.''
 Meanwhile, the city has set up a job training program that will be available even to illegal immigrants, who are believed to make up about 40 percent of the work force in Willets Point -- an area that Mayor Bloomberg once called a ''euphemism for blight, '' but which represents a lifeline to the barely trained men and women who toil in its automotive shops and to the vendors who peddle juice, socks and cellphone holders along its pockmarked streets.
 Robert C. Lieber, the deputy mayor for economic development, said the city was still in the ''relatively early stages'' of devising a relocation plan for the Willets Point tenants. For now, Mr. Lieber said, the priority is negotiating with owners of businesses and property in the area. Finding adequate land for the types of business found in Willets Point had been one of the biggest challenges, in part because of a scarcity of heavy manufacturing zones in the city, Mr. Lieber said. 
 Another city official, who was not authorized to speak publicly about the project, said that the city would probably not be able to relocate all the auto repair shops. The reason, he said, was that some neighborhoods might simply not want them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Mets' new stadium, Citi Field, was built across from the auto body shops that are so prevalent in Willets Point, Queens.
Jorge Sabando works at New York Auto Repair, one of many businesses that would be displaced by a city development plan.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Willets Point Denizens Speak Out: Businesses in the gritty industrial triangle are trying to stop the mayor's plan to build a convention center, offices and homes.(PHOTOGRAPH BY THE NEW YORK TIMES
 IMAGE BY TELE ATLAS VIA GOOGLE EARTH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); CITIES (87%); VANDALISM (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); MAYORS (75%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (74%); RETAILERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE BODY & INTERIOR REPAIR SHOPS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); HOME PRICES (71%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (66%); EMINENT DOMAIN (65%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (91%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (51%); RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



222 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: The Times Co. Will Shut Down a Distribution Subsidiary, Cutting 550 Jobs

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
The New York Times Company will shut down in January a subsidiary that distributes newspapers and magazines in the metropolitan area, the company announced Monday.
 The move will eliminate the equivalent of 550 full-time jobs and affect the distribution of some 200 publications. 
 The operation, City and Suburban Delivery Systems, distributes to retail outlets like newsstands, bookstores and coffee shops in New York City, New Jersey, Westchester County and Long Island in New York, and Fairfield County in Connecticut. The move does not affect delivery to subscribers, or distribution in other parts of the country.
 In its place, The New York Times newspaper will increase its reliance on independent distributors, which are generally nonunion and pay drivers less than City and Suburban drivers. The employees who are laid off will receive severance, to be negotiated with their union, the Newspaper and Mail Deliverers Union of New York and Vicinity, the company said. The union declined to comment.
 The newspaper will also do some distribution with its own employees and trucks, and for that work, some of the people laid off from City and Suburban could be absorbed back into the company, a spokeswoman for the company, Catherine J. Mathis, said. ''At this point,'' she said, ''we don't know how that will break down'' between outside contractors and distribution by The Times.
 City and Suburban will close in January. Other publications will need to find new distributors or develop distribution networks.
 City and Suburban handles most of the distribution of The New York Times to retailers in the metropolitan area, while some is already done by independent distributors. It is also a major distributor of The Wall Street Journal and numerous magazines and out-of-town newspapers, and it does some distribution of The Daily News, The New York Post and other area papers.
 ''This was a difficult decision to make since it affects a large number of dedicated employees,'' the president and general manager of The Times, Scott Heekin-Canedy, said in a statement. ''But the business environment has changed dramatically since 1992 when City and Suburban was formed and wholesale distribution is no longer an economical business for the Times Company.''
 The company declined to give specifics about the subsidiary's financial performance, but the delivery business has been hurt by high fuel prices. The company has told investors that it will shed $230 million in annual expenses this year and next, and it has made cuts in many areas.
 For decades, the deliverers' union was the one that New York's newspapers feared the most, the one that could all but shut down the industry. Their relations were marked by frequent labor unrest and violence that disrupted deliveries.
 In the 1970s and 1980s, several leaders of the union were convicted of charges like demanding illegal payments from wholesale distributors. The Manhattan district attorney's office has long sought, unsuccessfully, to have a court-appointed monitor take over the union.
 Seeking to gain more control over the situation, The Times went into the wholesale distribution in 1992, buying the assets of two wholesalers to create City and Suburban. It also negotiated a long-term labor contract, narrowly approved by union members, that ushered in a period of labor peace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); WHOLESALERS (89%); NEWSSTANDS (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); RETAILERS (76%); BOOKSTORES (71%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (60%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%); CITY & SUBURBAN DELIVERY SYSTEMS INC (85%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



223 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: What the Political Insiders Will Be Watching, in a Primary Often Overlooked

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Raymond Hernandez and Jonathan P. Hicks contributed reporting.

 BODY:
This November, millions of New Yorkers will cast their votes in a history-making, ceiling-shattering presidential election, where the Republican and Democratic nominees are locked in a close race and the stakes are magnified by the sinking economy and an unpopular foreign war.
 Today, if history is any guide, millions of voters in New York will completely ignore the state primary elections. Since most incumbent lawmakers have no challenger in their own party, most of them won't pay much attention, either. In a few cases, if tradition holds, entrenched incumbents will quietly crush long-shot challengers and go on about their business. 
 Still, for the discerning observer, this year's primary offers a wealth of intrigue and action. Over the course of the day, political machines will be tested and dynasties may fall. Some careers will be started and others will be extinguished. Small rivalries and large demographic shifts will each play themselves out -- even if almost nobody is watching.
 Perhaps no primary in the state is being observed more intently by political professionals than that of Sheldon Silver, speaker of the state Assembly and one of the most powerful men in Albany. This year, Mr. Silver has drawn not just one but two young challengers: Paul Newell, a community organizer, and Luke Henry, a lawyer. 
 Neither is likely to defeat the speaker, but the race has become a test of whether Mr. Silver will be hurt by his role in stymieing some major initiatives, like Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposal to charge drivers for entering Manhattan's busiest areas. 
 A narrow win for Mr. Silver could embolden future challengers not only in his Lower Manhattan district, but also to his leadership in Albany. 
 Mr. Silver, for his part, is taking no chances, blanketing the district in recent days with volunteers and fliers, including a letter from Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
 Reached by phone, Mr. Newell kept his game face on. ''Obviously, his name recognition is near a hundred percent,'' Mr. Newell said. ''But to the extent that I've gotten, 'Oh, the new guy against Sheldon Silver,' I think we are getting better known.''
 Overlapping with Mr. Silver's home base is the district of Senator Martin Connor, who represents parts of Brooklyn and Manhattan. Mr. Connor is a former Senate minority leader and a 30-year incumbent, but this time it is possible to think of Mr. Connor as the underdog.
 His challenger, Daniel L. Squadron, is a protege of United States Senator Charles E. Schumer, who has endorsed him and rallied his formidable campaign machinery and fund-raising network to help him. That has helped significantly, not least in finances, where the challenger has significantly exceeded the incumbent. In addition, Mr. Squadron was endorsed by Mr. Bloomberg, whose support and influence may be felt in several other primary races in the five boroughs, too.
 The race also has a contest within Brooklyn's bitterly divided Satmar Hasidic sect. One group of the Satmar, headed by Rabbi Aaron Teitelbaum, is supporting Mr. Squadron. (Mr. Teitelbaum's group is based in Orange County, but many of his followers live in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.) The other group, based in Brooklyn and headed by the Mr. Teitelbaum's brother, Rabbi Zalman Teitelbaum, is supporting Mr. Connor, despite a reported plea from aides to Mr. Bloomberg that he support Mr. Squadron.
 Farther north, in Buffalo, will be the test of a political powerbroker, Tom Golisano, the billionaire Rochester businessman. In July, Mr. Golisano announced that he would spend at least $5 million in this year's elections in an effort to shake up Albany. One of his first targets is Assemblyman Sam Hoyt, a long-serving Democrat little known outside the Buffalo region. 
 Mr. Golisano's political committee, Responsible New York, is pouring resources into the campaign of Barbra Kavanaugh, a Democrat and former member of the Buffalo City Council, charging that Mr. Hoyt is a symbol of do-nothing incumbency. 
 Mr. Hoyt's backers charge that the race is little more than a grudge match between Mr. Hoyt and Buffalo's mayor, Byron W. Brown, whose allies are aiding Mr. Golisano's committee.
 The race took a surprising turn last month after a local political Web site leaked copies of sexually charged e-mail messages between Mr. Hoyt and a young woman who had served as an intern for a Republican Assembly member. The messages, which were several years old, prompted Mr. Hoyt, who is married, to admit that he had violated his marriage vows in the past, though he did not say with whom. According to a report in The Buffalo News, Responsible New York has been helping distribute fliers that criticize Mr. Hoyt for the affair.
 Mr. Hoyt isn't the only incumbent assemblyman who has gotten into fresh political trouble over an old girlfriend. 
 In New York's 99th Assembly district covering covers parts of Putnam, Dutchess and Westchester Counties, the first-term incumbent, Gregory R. Ball, and his challenger, John Degnan, were already sparring angrily over illegal immigration. Now they are at war over records leaked to a local newspaper concerning a temporary protective order once filed against Mr. Ball by a former girlfriend. (The order was later dismissed.)
 Mr. Ball blamed State Senator Vincent L. Leibell for the leaks. Mr. Leibell represents some of the same areas as Mr. Ball, but supports Mr. Degnan. In a public letter to constituents, Mr. Ball charged that ''private investigators have been harassing my friends and family for months'' at the behest of his opponents. 
 According to a report in The Journal News, a local newspaper, Mr. Ball used a phone service to urge voters to contact Mr. Leibell at home, at an unlisted number, and urge him to stop the attacks, leading a sheriff to station deputies outside the senator's home.
 But not all politics is local. 
 In the 26th Congressional District, which lies between Rochester and the Buffalo suburbs, Democrats are hoping to send a message to Republicans around the country by taking the open seat of Representative Thomas N. Reynolds, the retiring Republican incumbent. In any normal election year, it would not be hard to hold this district, which tilts Republican by about 37,000 voters. But at first, local Republicans were scrambling to find a successor to Mr. Reynolds, while Democratic officials looked forward to a big turnout in New York in November, and with it a chance to take the seat. 
 But now, the situation seems to be reversed. Republicans have coalesced behind Chris Lee, a wealthy local businessman, while Democrats are facing a difficult three-way race. Their candidates are Jack Davis, a former Republican who nearly beat Mr. Reynolds in 2006; Jonathan Powers, a former Army captain; and Alice Kryzan, an environmental lawyer. 
 The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, which normally stays out of primary races, decided to back Mr. Powers in June, a recognition of how important the seat is to national leaders. But Mr. Davis, a businessman who spent $2 million of his own money against Mr. Reynolds, is not easily intimidated. Political handicappers now rate the seat as leaning Republican in the general elections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



224 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Stumps for Obama, But With Little Fire at Palin

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY; Mark Holan contributed reporting from Tampa, Fla., and Sonia Chopra from Orlando, Fla.

 BODY:
In her first campaign outing since the Democratic National Convention, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton urged audiences across central Florida on Monday to oppose the Republican presidential ticket -- ''no McCain, no Palin'' -- but otherwise avoided criticizing a new contender for female voters, Gov. Sarah Palin.
 The absence of heavy fire directed at Ms. Palin had been expected, given a reluctance by Mrs. Clinton to turn her campaigning into a battle between two women. Yet advisers to Senator Barack Obama said Mrs. Clinton was nonetheless their best surrogate to counter the Republican ticket's new drive to win over white working women and mothers who supported her in the Democratic primaries. 
 Ms. Palin has been explicitly courting those women, and national polls taken in the wake of last week's Republican convention indicate that the McCain-Palin ticket is drawing interest and support from them.
 Leading an evening rally in Tampa, Mrs. Clinton drew applause for a line that she used at two events earlier Monday in the Orlando area, a version of which she also used at the Democratic convention, before Senator John McCain chose Ms. Palin as his running mate. 
 ''No way, no how, no McCain -- no Palin!'' Mrs. Clinton declared. 
 After someone in the audience yelled, ''Tell us about Palin,'' Mrs. Clinton replied: ''I don't think that's what this election is about. Anybody who believes that the Republicans, whoever they are, can fix the mess they created probably believes that the iceberg could have saved the Titanic.''
 Mrs. Clinton told the predominantly white female audience of about 2,000 in Tampa that central Florida was ''the battleground of the battleground state.'' She argued in her 22-minute speech there that Mr. Obama offered better plans on health care and equal pay for women than did the McCain-Palin ticket.
 Earlier, in Kissimmee, at a community event on the economy, she asserted that the Republicans proposed few if any positive domestic policies during their convention in St. Paul.
 ''I didn't see that from Senator McCain and Governor Palin,'' Mrs. Clinton said in one of only a handful of explicit references to Ms. Palin on Monday. ''I saw more of the same.''
 In Orlando, Mrs. Clinton appeared at a convention of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, which was one of the first unions to endorse her for president and which has yet to endorse a candidate in the general election. 
 Drawing cheers and applause from the 1,600 people in the room, Mrs. Clinton said that ''we must work as hard as we possibly can'' to elect Mr. Obama, and suggested that her supporters needed to put aside personal loyalty to her former candidacy and embrace him as the best hope for their interests.
 ''Who are you for?'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''That's the wrong question. It should be: Who is for you? Who will fight for you?''
 Shortly afterward, the union workers made Mrs. Clinton an honorary member, and she replied by asking them for an endorsement of Mr. Obama. ''Aye!'' they cheered.
 At the Tampa rally, several Floridians said they were delighted to see Mrs. Clinton, adding that they were put off by Ms. Palin.
 Veronica Newton, 24, a community college student who described herself as a Clinton supporter ''to the very end,'' said Ms. Palin's selection ''was very much an insult to women.''
 ''It's like McCain trivialized what we were voting for,'' Ms. Newton said. ''It wasn't just that she was a woman; it was her views.''
 Hazel Stephens, 68, a retired school district employee, said that she had supported Mr. Obama from the start but that she wished he had selected Mrs. Clinton as a running mate.
 ''If he had, it would be a shoo-in,'' Ms. Stephens said. ''We would be way over the top.'' 
 She said she worried that Ms. Palin would peel off some voters, because ''she is new and exciting.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton being greeted by supporters in Kissimmee on one of several stops she made Monday in Florida. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE BURBANK/ORLANDO SENTINEL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WOMEN (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); EQUAL PAY (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); SARAH PALIN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%); TAMPA, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



225 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 497 words

 BODY:
FREDDIE'S AND FANNIE'S FUTURE What will the two mortgage financing giants look like in the future? Three camps are forming in what will be a major battle in the next Congress. 
 MR. PAULSON'S SHOW President Bush may be the nation's first president with an M.B.A., but when Mr. Bush and his advisers met last week to complete their plan to take over the mortgage financing giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, it was the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., running the show. White House Memo. [A1.]
 A NEED FOR GUIDELINES? Many in the nation's financial industry say more formal debate is needed before making decisions on possible future requests for help from individual companies or industries. [C1.] 
 QUESTIONING THE TIMING Why did Mr. Paulson engineer the takeover of Fannie and Freddie when he did? DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [C1.]
 WORLD MARKETS RISE Stock markets worldwide rallied on news of the federal takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, though worry persists over other economic ills. [C1.]
 The London Stock Exchange suffered a computer problem that prevented traders from participating in the rally. [C5.]
 Analysts say the takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could lead to one of the biggest payments ever in the credit default swap market. [C5.] 
 TIFF OVER AN ANTITRUST GUIDE The Justice Department has issued antitrust guidelines for corporate monopolies, but the Federal Trade Commission, which shares enforcement of antitrust law, refuses to endorse them. [C1.]
 FOCUSING ON THE ROOKIES In an effort to attract people who are about to hit it big financially, Citigroup will introduce a mentoring program in one of its ads that pairs four rookie professional golfers with the longtime pros Paul Azinger and Nick Faldo, above, who will give the younger players financial advice. [C7.] 
 UNITED'S TUMULTUOUS DAY A rumor regarding a plan to file bankruptcy that flew through the financial markets sent shares of United Airlines down more than 75 percent before it was refuted and the stock rebounded. [C1.]
 DETAINED AT KENNEDY A New York City woman says her family was detained for more than two hours on a Saturday night at Kennedy Airport because her son's name matched one on the federal terrorist watch list. The boy is 7. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [C6.] 
 IT'S EXPENSIVE IN EUROPE Many American business travelers to England and the countries using the euro are staying in less fancy hotels and shunning taxis to walk or take subways, trying to save money while the lopsided exchange rate favors the British pound sterling and the euro. [C6.]
 GOOGLE TO SELL ADS FOR NBC Google will begin selling ads on some cable networks owned by NBC Universal in a new deal that will enhance Google's efforts to sell television advertising. [C3.]
 THE TIMES CO. TO CLOSE A UNIT The New York Times Company will shut a subsidiary that distributes newspapers and magazines in the New York metropolitan area, trimming the equivalent of 550 full-time jobs. [C3.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EURO (83%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (73%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); CURRENCIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%); BRITISH POUND (62%); AIRLINES (61%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); TERRORISM (50%); GOLF (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); GOOGLE INC (81%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (61%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (61%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (61%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%); ENGLAND (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



226 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Paulson's Influence Displayed In Fannie and Freddie Rescue

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Stephen Labaton contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush may be the nation's first M.B.A. president, but when Mr. Bush and a small coterie of advisers met in the Oval Office last week to complete their plan to rescue the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, there was no question who was in charge.
 It was Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. who first proposed the idea of a government conservatorship, and broached it with Mr. Bush while the president was at his ranch in Crawford, Tex. It was Mr. Paulson who set the guiding principles for the subsequent deal; Mr. Bush endorsed them, a departure from usual White House practice, in which the president articulates principles for his underlings to follow. 
 It was Mr. Paulson who, in that Oval Office meeting, plotted the weekend introduction of the plan so as not to rattle financial markets. And it was Mr. Paulson, not the president, who met with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac executives on Saturday to deliver the unpleasant news that they were now out of jobs.
 ''He was all the way in the driver's seat, and that was where the president wanted him,'' said Tony Fratto, Mr. Bush's deputy press secretary, adding, ''The sentiment was, 'You're in charge, and I hope it works.' ''
 For a president like Mr. Bush, who holds a master's degree in business administration from Harvard and has strong economic views of his own, Mr. Paulson's emergence as the administration's primary voice on economic policy is striking. But time and again in recent months, Mr. Paulson has taken Mr. Bush where he instinctively would not ordinarily go: into the realm of government intervention in the markets.
 Since the beginning of the year, that path has brought forth an economic stimulus package, housing legislation, a bailout of the investment bank Bear Stearns and now the Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac rescue.
 ''Bush was in charge when it was cut taxes, deregulate, have free trade, etc.,'' said Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. ''But then the old paradigm broke down, and it fell, frankly, to more serious thinkers to figure out how to cope with the current reality.''
 Mr. Bush has never been a fan of the government's involvement in the mortgage markets; he has long viewed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as ''ticking time bombs,'' said his former chief economics adviser, Al Hubbard. As far back as 2002, he began arguing for greater regulatory control over the companies, but was thwarted by Republicans who controlled Congress. (Democrats eventually granted the authority, which provided the legal underpinning for the takeover announced on Sunday.) 
 Mr. Bush was so disapproving of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Mr. Hubbard said, that beginning early in his administration he refused to appoint members to their boards. ''That is very significant,'' Mr. Hubbard said. ''No president has ever done that, but he said, 'We're not going to put people on the boards of these institutions that are these huge systemic financial risks to the economy.'''
 So the idea that the government would become even more involved might seem like anathema to Mr. Bush, and the White House made clear on Monday that the president agreed to the conservatorship only as a last resort. ''This is not action that we wanted to take; it was action that Secretary Paulson and others, working with the president, determined that we needed to take,'' the White House press secretary, Dana M. Perino, told reporters.
 One senior administration official who participated in the meetings, but spoke on condition of anonymity, said Mr. Paulson emphasized during his sessions with the president that the issue was not one of ideology, and Mr. Bush agreed. This person said Mr. Bush spoke little in the meetings, leaving most of the talking to Mr. Paulson.
 Mr. Bush is a big believer in delegating authority; on the war in Iraq, for instance, he has said frequently that he makes decisions based on the advice of his commanders on the ground. But throughout his first term and well into his second, Mr. Bush did not have a close bond with a Treasury secretary in the same way that, for instance, he clearly trusts Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top commander in Iraq, or Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. 
 His first Treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, who later cooperated with the author and journalist Ron Suskind in a tell-all book, was regarded inside the White House as ''a person that you had to keep out of trouble,'' said Peter Wehner, a former domestic policy adviser to Mr. Bush. The second Treasury secretary, John W. Snow, was unceremoniously pushed out of his job. Neither man came from Wall Street. Mr. O'Neill ran Alcoa; Mr. Snow was a railroad executive.
 Mr. Paulson, a former chairman of Goldman Sachs, joined the White House in July 2006 after an intense courtship by Mr. Bush's chief of staff, Joshua B. Bolten. He demanded clout and got it, in part because ''Paulson did not need the job; the administration needed Paulson,'' said Vincent R. Reinhart, a monetary economist at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington. 
 Mr. Reinhart says Mr. Paulson, like Mr. Bush, would ordinarily resist government intervention. ''I think the economy is taking Bush and Paulson to a place where they wouldn't go on their own,'' he said. ''In a crisis, you start bending principles, and Paulson bent principles.''
 By relying so heavily on Mr. Paulson, Mr. Bush is doing more than bend conservative principles. He is taking himself out of public view in the one area of policy making that matters most to Americans: the economy. Mr. Wehner, Mr. Bush's former adviser, does not see that as a problem so long as the markets stabilize. And Mr. Frank, the Democratic congressman, said Mr. Bush's reliance on the Treasury secretary is ''one of those things that, historically, will be to his credit.''
 Mr. Bush and Mr. Paulson kept in close touch over the weekend, with telephone calls both before and after the secretary's meetings with the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac executives. With the decision set, there was little need for lengthy discussion.
 ''The president called Hank when he got back from Camp David Saturday morning, just to check in on how he thought the meetings were going to go that day, did he feel good about it, was everything still on track,'' Mr. Fratto said, describing the first of the two conversations. ''It wasn't a long call.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush, with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson, spoke to reporters in May about the economy. Mr. Paulson, a former Goldman Sachs chairman, became secretary in July 2006. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DEREGULATION (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TAKEOVERS (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); TAX LAW (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (94%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); HENRY PAULSON (92%); BARNEY FRANK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



227 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Antitrust Document Exposes Rift

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Justice Department laid out a broad policy on antitrust enforcement on Monday that drew an unusually sharp rebuke from three federal trade commissioners, who said it would protect monopolies from prosecution.
 A 215-page report from the Justice Department, coming after nearly a year of public hearings, was originally meant to lay out a governmentwide approach to combating anticompetitive business practices. Instead, it exposed a rift between the Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission over whether the government was protecting consumers or big businesses. 
 In a quick response to the Justice Department report, three of the four commissioners on the F.T.C. issued a statement saying that the policy was ''a blueprint for radically weakened enforcement'' against anticompetitive practices. They said the Justice Department guidelines allowed monopolies to act ''with impunity'' and ''would make it nearly impossible to prosecute a case.'' 
 In nearly eight years under the Bush administration, the Justice Department has brought one case against a business on anticompetitive grounds, seeking to block the purchase of a West Virginia newspaper by a competitor. 
 Critics considered the new report an attempt, in the last months of the Bush administration, to make formal a pro-business approach to antitrust issues. The policy guidance is not binding on the next administration. Thomas Barnett, the head of the Justice Department's antitrust division, said in an interview that the latest report provided ''clear standards'' for determining whether certain types of conduct by big companies violated the Sherman Act and would harm competition.
 Mr. Barnett would not comment directly on the critical comments of the three F.T.C. commissioners -- Pamela J. Harbour, an independent; Jon Leibowitz, a Democrat; and J. Thomas Rosch, a Republican. 
 But he said the Justice Department's report reflected a ''shared view'' of antitrust enforcement among academics, economists and others, and he rejected the idea from the F.T.C. commissioners that its approach favored big business. 
 ''We're comfortable that this is pro-consumer,'' Mr. Barnett said.
 A fourth member of the F.T.C., William E. Kovacic, who was appointed chairman by President Bush in May, put out a statement that neither endorsed nor opposed the Justice Department's guidelines. He said the Justice Department's conclusions ''absorbed'' some of the F.T.C.'s work but added that he found it lacking in historical context and other areas. 
 The campaign of Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic nominee for president, said the Justice Department's position reflected the need for a more aggressive approach to antitrust enforcement in the next administration.
 ''Four more years of the Bush-McCain approach to antitrust will only lead to higher prices for American consumers and a less competitive environment for smaller businesses to thrive,'' said Jason Furman, economic policy director for the campaign.
 The campaign of Senator John McCain had no immediate comment on the report.
 The Justice Department concluded that several business practices that some consumer groups consider anticompetitive actually help competition. ''Overly broad prohibitions'' on anticompetitive practices could harm consumers by undermining economic growth, the report said. 
 It concluded, for instance, that so-called exclusive-dealing practices -- allowing big companies to do business solely with particular suppliers or retailers -- ''should not be illegal'' if fewer than 30 percent of existing customers were affected by the arrangement. And it says that the practice of ''tying'' -- selling a product only on the condition that the buyer purchase another product as well -- can often promote efficiency.
 ''Consequently,'' the report said, ''the department believes that the historical hostility of the law to tying is unjustified.''
 The Justice Department and the F.T.C. held joint hearings from June 2006 through May 2007 in an effort to develop an antitrust model on monopoly practices. In recent months, the two groups traded draft reports on the issue, according to one official involved in the process who spoke on condition of anonymity, but it soon became clear that differing philosophies would prevent the release of a joint statement. 
 The Justice Department and the F.T.C. have clashed in recent months over issues involving, among other industries, high-speed Internet providers and drug makers, but rarely with the intensity seen after Monday's report. In their statement, the three F.T.C. commissioners said the Justice Department had set up a ''protective screen'' for companies with monopoly power.
 Senator Herb Kohl, the Wisconsin Democrat who leads the antitrust subcommittee, called the report ''yet another example of this Justice Department's unfortunate record of failing to vigorously enforce antitrust law.''
 No matter which side is right in the dispute, ''this is part of a growing rift between the F.T.C. and the Justice Department,'' said Herb Hovenkamp, an antitrust professor at the University of Iowa who testified as part of the hearings. ''It's warfare, and the level of rhetoric is pretty high.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William E. Kovacic heads the Federal Trade Commission. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS)(C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (94%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (94%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); HISTORY (62%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (92%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



228 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Rules Out Unilateral Steps Against Russia

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration, after considerable internal debate, has decided not to take direct punitive action against Russia for its conflict with Georgia, concluding that it has little leverage if it acts unilaterally and that it would be better off pressing for a chorus of international criticism to be led by Europe.
In recent interviews, senior administration officials said the White House had concluded that American punishments like economic sanctions or blocking Russia from world trade groups would only backfire, deepening Russia's intransigence and allowing the Kremlin to narrow the regional and global implications of its invasion of Georgia to an old-fashioned Washington-Moscow dispute.
Even as they vowed to work with allies, administration officials conceded that they wished the European Union had been willing to take firmer action than issuing tepid statements criticizing Russia's conduct. But the officials said the benefits of remaining part of a united front made it prudent for the United States to accept the softer approach advocated by Italy and Germany, among other allies. 
Some within the administration have argued for a more hawkish response, saying that Moscow probably intends to impose its will among independent states along its borders. They say the Kremlin is signaling to Ukraine, the Baltic nations and Poland that it is back in the game of regional hegemony, and they say it must be deterred.
In the first days of the conflict, for example, Vice President Dick Cheney reflected the view of administration hard-liners who saw Russia's offensive as justifying their skepticism and a policy that the Kremlin's actions would ''not go unanswered.'' In his more recent comments, Mr. Cheney has stuck with the administration's emerging position of a more calibrated response.
In an interview, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates described the administration as having come to a unified position that calls for ''a long-term strategic approach -- not one where we react tactically in a way that has negative strategic consequences.''
Mr. Gates, a career Kremlinologist and former director of central intelligence, said: ''We are all agreed that we need to stay very much in close collaboration with the Europeans and others. I think there is a sense that we do have the time to calibrate reactions carefully. And I think there is agreement not to take any precipitous actions. But there is also agreement on the importance of continued support for Georgia's territorial integrity.''
He cautioned that ''if we act too precipitously, we could be the ones who are isolated.''
As part of the new strategy, President Bush notified Congress on Monday that, ''in view of recent actions'' by Russia, he was withdrawing from consideration an agreement for civilian nuclear cooperation that he and Vladimir V. Putin, then Russia's president and now the prime minister, negotiated in April after years of effort. While the step was the most meaningful show of displeasure the United States has made over Russia's military action in Georgia, it also reflected a more cautious response.
The deal was all but certain to die in Congress anyway, and the agreement could be revived by the administration should Russia's behavior improve, officials said.
The issue of how to manage Russia is also playing into presidential politics. Senator John McCain, the Republican nominee, has long called for excluding Russia from the Group of 8 industrialized powers and has urged a firmer response. Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic nominee, has criticized the Kremlin's decision to go into Georgia but has made it clear that he favors more engagement.
While the United States has been cautious in moving to punish Russia, it has thrown significant support behind Georgia, including a $1 billion economic assistance package that Mr. Bush proposed last week. The aid, officials said, was to shore up Georgia's economy and to help the political standing of President Mikheil Saakashvili, the republic's battered leader.
Overall, the administration's strategy reflects a desire to defend Georgia's territorial sovereignty and its symbolic role as an emerging democracy, while not precluding cooperation with Russia on a number of important long-term national security interests, including counterterrorism, nonproliferation and efforts to halt narcotics traffic.
While the United States and Russia continue to share a number of national security interests, Mr. Gates said, ''We would still like to see Russia headed toward a more constructively collaborative role in dealing with international problems -- rather than throwing their food on the floor.''
In other interviews, a range of senior administration officials argued that Russia is already paying a price for its actions, as foreign investors appeared to be removing or withholding assets, prompting a decline in the ruble since the Kremlin's forces crossed into Georgia. The Russian stock market has also plummeted.
''Russia has been condemned by the European Union, by the Group of 7 foreign ministers and individually by many other countries,'' said a senior State Department official, who, like some others interviewed for this article, was given anonymity to discuss internal administration thinking.
''This is very strong stuff, and they do feel that,'' the official added. ''And even if they didn't feel that, they might feel the billions of dollars of capital that has fled. The Russians are on a course of self-isolation. Nothing we do in a deliberate, punitive way would be as effective in isolating Russia as what they have done themselves.''
Regarding another possible punishment, a veto of Russian entry into the World Trade Organization, the more likely decision now is for a disciplined silence from powerful voices in Washington that had supported Moscow's membership, other officials said. A renewal of support for membership in the organization would be dependent on Russian behavior.
''We were an advocate for Russia, but maybe we just go quiet,'' Mr. Gates said in describing the emerging strategy. ''So it's not a negative decision. Where we were their advocate, maybe we're not so much their advocate anymore, at least not for the foreseeable future.''
The United States has left much of the direct diplomacy to Europe, including the administration's endorsement of a leading role by Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president and current president of the European Union, who visited Moscow on Monday to urge Russia to abide by the terms of a cease-fire he brokered last month.
Inside the Bush administration, cabinet-level meetings of principal policy makers have been held several times since the fighting in Georgia began on Aug. 7. The most recent took place just before Mr. Cheney visited the region last week.
The vice president, who visited Azerbaijan, Georgia and Ukraine, all former Soviet republics on Russia's periphery, spoke forcefully on Russia for much of last week, but even he did not close the door on improved relations, casting future relations as a choice for Russian leaders to make.
''What we do know right now is that Russia's leaders cannot have things both ways,'' Mr. Cheney said on Saturday at an international forum in Cernobbio, Italy. ''They cannot presume to gather up all the benefits of commerce, consultation and global prestige while engaging in brute force, threats or other forms of intimidation against sovereign, democratic countries. To succeed and prosper in the modern world, Russia must relate to the world as a responsible modern power.''
In Rome on Monday, where the vice president was meeting with Italian officials, a senior administration official said, ''The emphasis that the United States wants to make going forward is to make certain that we've got everybody knitted up together in terms of developing a common policy that we can all support.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); ROBERT M GATES (58%); DICK CHENEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); POLAND (79%); UKRAINE (79%); GERMANY (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



229 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Hold Your Heads Up

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Ignorance must really be bliss. How else, over so many years, could the G.O.P. get away with ridiculing all things liberal?
 Troglodytes on the right are no respecters of reality. They say the most absurd things and hardly anyone calls them on it. Evolution? Don't you believe it. Global warming? A figment of the liberal imagination.
 Liberals have been so cowed by the pummeling they've taken from the right that they've tried to shed their own identity, calling themselves everything but liberal and hoping to pass conservative muster by presenting themselves as hyper-religious and lifelong lovers of rifles, handguns, whatever. 
 So there was Hillary Clinton, of all people, sponsoring legislation to ban flag-burning; and Barack Obama, who once opposed the death penalty, morphing into someone who not only supports it, but supports it in cases that don't even involve a homicide.
 Anyway, the Republicans were back at it last week at their convention. Mitt Romney wasn't content to insist that he personally knows that ''liberals don't have a clue.'' He complained loudly that the federal government right now is too liberal.
 ''We need change, all right,'' he said. ''Change from a liberal Washington to a conservative Washington.''
 Why liberals don't stand up to this garbage, I don't know. Without the extraordinary contribution of liberals -- from the mightiest presidents to the most unheralded protesters and organizers -- the United States would be a much, much worse place than it is today.
 There would be absolutely no chance that a Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton or Sarah Palin could make a credible run for the highest offices in the land. Conservatives would never have allowed it.
 Civil rights? Women's rights? Liberals went to the mat for them time and again against ugly, vicious and sometimes murderous opposition. They should be forever proud.
 The liberals who didn't have a clue gave us Social Security and unemployment insurance, both of which were contained in the original Social Security Act. Most conservatives despised the very idea of this assistance to struggling Americans. Republicans hated Social Security, but most were afraid to give full throat to their opposition in public at the height of the Depression.
 ''In the procedural motions that preceded final passage,'' wrote historian Jean Edward Smith in his biography, ''FDR,'' ''House Republicans voted almost unanimously against Social Security. But when the final up-or-down vote came on April 19 [1935], fewer than half were prepared to go on record against.''
 Liberals who didn't have a clue gave us Medicare and Medicaid. Quick, how many of you (or your loved ones) are benefiting mightily from these programs, even as we speak. The idea that Republicans are proud of Ronald Reagan, who saw Medicare as ''the advance wave of socialism,'' while Democrats are ashamed of Lyndon Johnson, whose legislative genius made this wonderful, life-saving concept real, is insane.
 When Johnson signed the Medicare bill into law in the presence of Harry Truman in 1965, he said: ''No longer will older Americans be denied the healing miracle of modern medicine.''
 Reagan, on the other hand, according to Johnson biographer Robert Dallek, ''predicted that Medicare would compel Americans to spend their 'sunset years telling our children and our children's children what it was like in America when men were free.' ''
 Scary.
 Without the many great and noble deeds of liberals over the past six or seven decades, America would hardly be recognizable to today's young people. Liberals (including liberal Republicans, who have since been mostly drummed out of the party) ended legalized racial segregation and gender discrimination.
 Humiliation imposed by custom and enforced by government had been the order of the day for blacks and women before men and women of good will and liberal persuasion stepped up their long (and not yet ended) campaign to change things. Liberals gave this country Head Start and legal services and the food stamp program. They fought for cleaner air (there was a time when you could barely see Los Angeles) and cleaner water (there were rivers in America that actually caught fire).
 Liberals. Your food is safer because of them, and so are your children's clothing and toys. Your workplace is safer. Your ability (or that of your children or grandchildren) to go to college is manifestly easier.
 It would take volumes to adequately cover the enhancements to the quality of American lives and the greatness of American society that have been wrought by people whose politics were unabashedly liberal. It is a track record that deserves to be celebrated, not ridiculed or scorned.
 Self-hatred is a terrible thing. Just ask that arch-conservative Clarence Thomas.
 Liberals need to get over it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (75%); US SOCIAL SECURITY ACTS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); WOMEN (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); HOMICIDE (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%); MEDICARE (66%); MEDICAID (66%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (62%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (57%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (54%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); MITT ROMNEY (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SARAH PALIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



230 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: After Tense Talks, Russia Agrees to Limited Pullout From Georgia

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY and DAN BILEFSKY; Ellen Barry reported from Moscow, and Dan Bilefsky from Tbilisi, Georgia.Graham Bowley contributed reporting from New York, Michael Schwirtz from Moscow, and Marlise Simons from Paris.

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
After a tense four-hour meeting with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, Russia's president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, announced Monday that Russia agreed to withdraw its troops by mid-October from its positions in Georgia outside the breakaway regions of South Ossetia and Abkhazia. 
 He also agreed to allow 200 observers from the European Union to monitor the conflict, a step that Russia had resisted. But Mr. Medvedev said Russia would stand by its decision to recognize the two breakaway regions as independent nations. 
 ''We have made our choice,'' he said at a joint news conference afterward. ''This is a final and irreversible choice. This is an irrevocable decision.'' 
 Mr. Medvedev's comments were greeted defiantly by the Georgian president, Mikheil Saakashvili, in Tbilisi, where Mr. Sarkozy brought the agreement later on Monday.
 Mr. Saakashvili offered cautious approval of the deal but openly questioned whether Moscow could be trusted, saying he had received written assurances from the European Union that it would protect Georgia's territorial integrity. 
 ''There is no way Georgia will ever give up a piece of its sovereignty, a piece of its territory,'' he said. ''Of course they should get the hell out of the territories they control.'' 
 Mr. Sarkozy's grueling day underlined the challenge facing European mediators as they try to bring the two sides together. The conflict has become a test for the European Union's ambition to become a major foreign policy player on a par with the United States, and a personal credibility test for the French president, who currently holds the bloc's rotating presidency.
 Mr. Sarkozy's task is harder because the European Union has been bitterly divided over how to manage its relationship with Russia. Some member nations, like France, have struggled to safeguard Europe's economic interests in Russia, while formerly Communist countries like Poland want the bloc to punish Russia for failing to uphold human rights and respect democratic norms.
 At times, Mr. Sarkozy's frustration showed -- as when a reporter in Moscow asked if he had allowed Russia to alter Georgia's borders.
 ''It was not up to Russia to define Georgia's borders or frontiers,'' he said. ''The Russians will say what they wish to say.'' 
 The conflict began Aug. 7, when Georgia attacked the South Ossetian capital of Tskhinvali and Russian troops poured across the border in response. More than a month later, Russian troops continue to occupy Georgian territory outside the enclaves of South Ossetia and Abkhazia despite a cease-fire agreement that called on both sides to withdraw troops to their positions before the fighting broke out. 
 Throughout the crisis, Russia has excoriated the American role in the region, but welcomed intervention by the European Union. As he stood beside Mr. Sarkozy, praising the Europeans as ''our natural partners, our key partners,'' Mr. Medvedev claimed that the United States was responsible for the attacks on Tskhinvali. 
 Georgia, he said, ''received the blessing of one government. I can't say how it was given, whether through direct instruction or tacit approval. But there is no doubt that it happened.''
 He continued: ''They launched an idiotic escapade. People were killed. And now all of Georgia is paying for it.'' 
 If implemented, the agreement will go a long way toward reconciling outstanding conflicts from the original cease-fire agreement reached on Aug. 12. The roughly 200 European Union observers, working with monitors from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, would replace Russian peacekeepers in the security zone outside the two enclaves and in other disputed areas, so that Russian troops would pull back. 
 The agreement also requires Russia to withdraw five peacekeeping posts in the west of Georgia, between the cities of Poti and Senaki, within seven days. In return, Georgia is required to withdraw its forces to their bases by Oct. 1. Mr. Medvedev also said he had received a written commitment by Georgia, backed by France and the European Union, that it would not use force on the enclaves. 
 In an interview after a news conference in Tbilisi, Mr. Saakashvili said he had refused to sign a document pledging not to use force because that matter was covered in the cease-fire deal of Aug. 12.
 Monday's agreement -- and, in particular, Russian cooperation with Mr. Sarkozy -- could have an impact among European leaders, said Tomas Valasek, a foreign policy specialist at the Center for European Reform, a research group in London. 
 ''Those within Europe who have argued for nonconfrontation and against isolating Russia, like Germany, will now feel justified,'' he said. ''They will say engagement works.''
 The decision came a day before European officials were due to meet in France for discussions, to be attended by President Viktor A. Yushchenko of Ukraine, on whether to offer Ukraine the possibility of future membership in the European Union, a move that Russia opposes. Monday's announcement makes Ukraine's case less likely to move forward, Mr. Valasek said. 
 Russia plans to establish formal diplomatic relations with governments in Sukhumi and Tskhinvali, the Abkhaz and South Ossetian capitals, on Tuesday. Two weeks after Mr. Medvedev announced the decision to formally recognize them, Nicaragua has followed suit.
 Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, the president of Belarus, said Monday that the Belorussian Parliament might take up the matter after elections this month. 
 At the news conference, Mr. Medvedev said he was certain that over time, other governments would come to accept the new borders. 
 ''We realize everything changes in this world, including recognition or nonrecognition of this or that state,'' he said. ''This is a reality that should be taken into account by our European partners.'' 
 ''If our colleagues are ready to do it right here and right now,'' he added, ''we wouldn't be opposed to it.'' 
 Meanwhile, Georgia and Russia carried their dispute over the breakaway enclaves to the International Court of Justice in The Hague on Monday, as three days of hearings began over Georgia's request for an injunction ordering Russia to stop ''terrorizing'' ethnic Georgians and to allow refugees to return to their homes. 
 Georgia's first deputy minister of justice, Tina Bujaliani, said her country was urgently turning to the court, the United Nations' highest, ''at a time of great distress in its history, a time when hundreds of thousands of its nationals are persecuted and displaced from their homes only because they are Georgians.''
 Russia, as expected, challenged the court's jurisdiction and asked it to dismiss the Georgian application.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A hotel worker in Tbilisi, Georgia, watching President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia at a news conference from Moscow.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTYNA MIELNIKIEWICZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES.)
 President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Jose Manuel Barroso, head of the European Commission, in Moscow on Monday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC FEFERBERG/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (90%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (88%); JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GEORGIA (98%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); POLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



231 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: College Presidents Defend Rising Tuition, but Lawmakers Sound Skeptical

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Two dozen college presidents and policy experts defended the rising costs of tuition on Monday and argued against forcing colleges to spend more of their endowments.
 But Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, and Representative Peter Welch, Democrat of Vermont, who convened a round-table discussion on the subject, indicated that they would continue their effort to push universities to justify their tax exemptions by spending more of their endowment money.
 ''Tuition has risen at twice the rate of per capita income,'' Mr. Welch said, ''and this year it will cost just under $50,000 to attend the average private college. If the cost of milk had risen as fast as the cost of college since 1980, a gallon would be $15.'' 
 Mr. Grassley said it was only fair to ask whether universities were doing enough for society, given that the value of their tax exemption, in the 2007 fiscal year, was more than $17 billion. He cited a survey finding that in that year, universities earned an average return of 17.2 percent on their assets but spent only 4.6 percent. 
 The two richest universities, Harvard and Yale, together have about $60 billion in endowments. 
 ''If an institution could educate all of its undergraduate students, regardless of need, free of charge, with a payout of just 1 percent of its assets, is its endowment an unreasonable accumulation of taxpayer-subsidized funds?'' Mr. Grassley asked. 
 Although Mr. Grassley has repeatedly suggested that he would like to mandate that the richest universities spend 5 percent of their endowments each year, as private foundations must, there was no hint on Monday that any specific legislation was on the horizon. 
 In fact, Mr. Grassley's closing remarks gave some comfort to university leaders, who oppose such legislation. He described his earlier experience looking into problems with nonprofits, saying his initial assessment was that it would take ''a massive amount of legislation'' to correct the problems. But after discussions with nonprofit groups, he told the educators, ''a lot of the things that needed to be corrected were self-corrected,'' He added, ''We'd like to encourage you folks to look inward and correct what can be corrected.'' 
 In January, the Senate Finance Committee requested detailed endowment and spending data from 136 colleges and universities with endowments of at least $500 million.
 Education leaders said Monday that many universities had been taking steps to make college more affordable. 
 ''Total student aid provided by institutions has more than doubled in the last decade, from $11.4 billion to $26.3 billion,'' said Molly Corbett Broad, president of the American Council on Education. 
 Ms. Broad pointed out that despite all the attention to the richest universities and highest tuitions, most universities had small endowments. Only 3 percent of the nation's college students are at institutions costing $25,000 a year or more, she said, and just 75 universities control 71 percent of all endowment assets.
 Daniel Fogel, president of the University of Vermont, said that despite rising costs, his university had reduced expenses by $886 per student since 2002 to cope with shrinking public financial support. A majority of undergraduates at his university come from out of state, and their higher tuition helps subsidize Vermont students, Mr. Fogel said, but even so, he said he worried about the fiscal future. 
 ''In Vermont, we worry that our business model will break before long,'' he said. 
 In the discussion, many of the educators took pains to explain why higher education, and therefore tuition, is so expensive. 
 Shirley M. Tilghman, the president of Princeton University, said that keeping up with the explosion of knowledge was an inherently expensive process, as the emergence of new fields of knowledge, like genomics, required new spending. 
 ''When Princeton made the commitment to create a Genomics Institute, we did not turn around and cancel the department of classics,'' she said. 
 Anthony W. Marx, the president of Amherst College, acknowledged that higher education was not an efficient process. ''We have an eight-to-one faculty ratio, we sit in a room and we talk for hours, that's what we do,'' he said. ''It costs us $80,000 a year to educate each student.''
 Mr. Marx, who has been a leader in recruiting low- and middle-income students by replacing loans with grants, said he worried that the high sticker price at Amherst and other elite colleges scared off low-income families, even though they would not have to pay it. 
 Those representing wealthy universities spoke of worries that a required spending rate would interfere with their ability to manage economic downturns, and described the complications of dealing with restricted gifts that could not be used for financial aid. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (76%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (89%); PETER WELCH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



232 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: An Itchy Finger On the Trigger Of a Bazooka

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN. 
The latest news on mergers and acquisitions can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook

 BODY:
''If you've got a bazooka, and people know you've got it, you may not have to take it out.''
 That's what Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. told a Congressional panel in July about his plans to stabilize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and, with them, the financial markets.
 The bazooka in question was his new authority to seize the two mortgage finance giants if things went horribly wrong. The thinking was, if the markets knew that Mr. Paulson was packing heat, the markets would back off and confidence would be restored. He might save Fannie and Freddie without firing a shot -- sort of a Wall Street version of the theory of deterrence. 
 And yet the moment Mr. Paulson uttered that line, it was all over for Fannie and Freddie. Once he mentioned that bazooka -- that is, the possibility that the Bush administration might take over the two companies -- he virtually guaranteed that that was exactly what would happen. On Sunday, his bazooka went off, and the shot is still reverberating around the world. 
 The rest was just theater. For the last two months, Fannie and Freddie ran around Wall Street searching for a savior. Private equity? Sovereign wealth funds? Anyone? 
 But Wall Street was never really sure what Mr. Paulson would do -- and that was a problem. ''He never laid out a roadmap and how he would use the power. Because of the uncertainty nobody was willing to put in money'' into Fannie or Freddie, said Doug A. Dachille, the chief executive of First Principles Capital Management. 
 The companies also never got the chance to tap people who already owned their stock for additional cash. ''We will never know whether existing shareholders would have put in money,'' Mr. Dachille said. 
 Meanwhile, the companies' bankers -- Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and others -- jockeyed for positions of influence, and yes, fees. (Morgan Stanley, which had been working for Freddie -- and was at one point demoted, according to company executives -- jumped ship and found a more prestigious, pro bono role advising Mr. Paulson and the government.)
 But the real question is, did things have to end this way? The answer, many on Wall Street believe, is yes. But maybe not when nor the way it did. 
 Many people in financial circles can't quite figure out why Mr. Paulson, the former chairman of Goldman Sachs, pulled the trigger when he did. He insisted politics had nothing to do with it. Never mind that the news broke just after the Democratic and Republican conventions, but as far away as possible from the November election. 
 But as of last week, Fannie and Freddie, for all their troubles, seemed to be bumbling along O.K. Both were able to roll over their enormous debts in the capital markets. Sure, Wall Street was nervous about those debt auctions, but the sales were running efficiently, in part because Mr. Paulson's promise -- or threat, depending on your view -- showed that the government would stand behind the companies in the end. 
 What's more, Fannie had made good on its promise to raise $5.5 billion last spring, before Mr. Paulson asked Congress for his bazooka. By most analysts' accounts, Fannie had enough wiggle room to stay in business for a while longer, if not find a way out of the mess down the road. 
 ''We are surprised that such measures are deemed necessary at this time,'' Bradley Ball, a research analyst at Citigroup, wrote in a research report on Sunday night.
 Freddie -- long considered the more troubled of the two -- was capitalized enough to keep going through 2009, many analysts believe. ''Even if neither raises another dollar of capital over the next year, we estimate that both companies will likely remain above their statutory minimum requirements,'' Bruce W. Harting, an analyst at Lehman Brothers wrote. 
 Neither company is blameless. Freddie seemingly refused to raise new money while it still could, in part, for fear of diluting its shareholders and selling too low. Freddie was convinced it could recover first; the power of optimism is a dangerous force. Indeed, it was Freddie's balance sheet that had Mr. Paulson most worried, at least in the immediate term. 
 Could Mr. Paulson have put Freddie into a conservatorship without bringing Fannie in too? Probably not. It would have just put more pressure on Fannie.
 In the end, Mr. Paulson's decision seems to have been a philosophical one, rather than one forced by imminent crisis. Of course, for stagecraft purposes, it was played as impending disaster. 
 His decision will either go down as a masterstroke -- or a horrible mistake.
 He appeared to want to take care of the problem himself -- perhaps guaranteeing him a lasting legacy -- during his time in the Bush administration. This way, had either Fannie or Freddie run into problems in the next administration, nobody could point the finger at him. For that reason, perhaps we should give credit to Mr. Paulson for jumping in ahead of more problems instead of looking back and playing Washington's blame game after the fact.
 There's something very Wall Street about the decision: firms often write down their bad investments in one year, so they can start the next year fresh. 
 All of us will bear the cost, of course. The scariest part of Mr. Paulson's economic acrobatics is that we won't know for years just how much this will cost us. On CNBC on Monday morning, when asked about how big the bill might be, Mr. Paulson replied, ''We didn't sit there and figure this out with a calculator.'' Apparently, he wasn't joking.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 10, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Tuesday with the DealBook column, about Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr.'s decision to use his authority to order a federal rescue of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, misidentified the agency of James Lockhart, shown accompanying Mr. Paulson to a news conference on Sunday. Mr. Lockhart is with the Federal Housing Finance Agency, not the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight. (He was director of the oversight office until it was merged with another housing program in July to create the Federal Housing Finance Agency.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Henry M. Paulson Jr. engineered the seizure of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY MALLIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(C1)
 Mr. Paulson and James Lockhart, of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, before a news conference Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY MALLIN/BLOOMBERG)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); SHOOTINGS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (62%); POLITICS (62%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (51%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



233 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: A Risky High-Wire Act

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ; Bill Vlasic contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Is the definition of companies that are ''too big to fail'' getting broader? Or are some industries simply more important than others?
 The seizure of the mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is the second time this year, after the rescue of Bear Stearns, that Washington has intervened to prevent a financial collapse. 
 Now, troubled automakers in the United States are also looking for help, in the form of loans to finance the development of new energy-efficient cars. 
 Until now, the bailout efforts have largely been reactive, with Washington throwing lifelines over the last decade to businesses in the airline and insurance industries in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and, more recently, those on Wall Street. 
 Now, many in the financial industry say a more formal debate is needed to set criteria to guide decisions on future requests for help from individual companies or industries. For example, should a large airline be allowed to fail while an automaker is bailed out? Or might one investment bank be judged as less critical to Wall Street's overall solvency than another?
 ''This presents a very important policy question that people are going to be grappling with for a long time,'' said Robert E. Rubin, who was Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton and is now a senior adviser at Citigroup. ''Bear was not too big to fail; it was too interconnected. Fannie and Freddie are both.'' 
 Hard choices have been made in the past -- the once-powerful American steel industry was allowed to shrink to a shadow of its former self.
 When Washington did ride to the rescue, the overall risk to the economy was considered greater than the downside of providing help -- what economists call ''moral hazard,'' referring to the risk that helping a faltering company will only encourage others to take even greater risks on the assumption that the government will always be there to provide a backstop.
 Mr. Rubin said that the moral hazard problem was ''extremely important.'' But with Fannie's and Freddie's shareholders practically wiped out, ''the principle has been upheld,'' he added.
 Shares of both companies closed below $1 on Monday, down from more than $60 a year ago. Bear Stearns shareholders fared slightly better, ultimately receiving $10 a share, but that was still a fraction of what the shares commanded before the rescue effort in March.
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are unusual because of their longstanding relationship with the federal government, but even supporters of the rescue plan say the move raises bigger questions. 
 ''Do we live in a market economy or not?'' said Jonathan Koppell, director of the Millstein Center for Corporate Governance and Performance at Yale. ''If we do, it seems companies have to be allowed to fail. If we say companies can't fail because they're too big or the consequences are too great, we have something else.''
 Foreign policy considerations are also driving the deal to help Fannie and Freddie. A substantial portion of their debt is held by central banks in Asia as well as by private financial institutions in Europe. A default, Mr. Koppell said, ''would make foreign governments scream that they thought they were doing business with the U.S.A. and would undermine their faith in America as a borrower.''
 The most notable corporate rescues of recent years have involved financial firms, and that is no coincidence, said Sanford Jacoby, a professor of management at the University of California, Los Angeles. ''The financial sector is special, because so much in the financial markets is based on confidence,'' he said. 
 In addition, he said, financial firms now represent an outsize portion of corporate profits and a more powerful force in the economy than they did in the 1970s, when industrial companies were seen as symbols of American might, and Lockheed and Chrysler received government help.
 In Chrysler's case, Congress extended a package of $1.5 billion in loan guarantees for the troubled carmaker, which had a work force of more than 100,000.
 More recently, after the Sept. 11 attacks, Congress approved $15 billion in direct aid and loan guarantees to the nation's faltering airline industry.
 Richard C. Breeden, a former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission and a key architect of the savings and loan bailout under President George H. W. Bush, said the criteria for a bailout should be whether ''the failure of a particular company will cause a ripple effect and otherwise healthy institutions will be forced into insolvency, affecting the overall economy.''
 During his tenure at the S.E.C., he noted, the government did not step in to prevent the collapse of Drexel Burnham after a scandal involving insider trading and abuses in the junk bond market. 
 This time around, Mr. Breeden said, shoring up Fannie and Freddie ''wasn't even a close call.'' Failing to do so, he added, ''would have caused a wave of problems to institutions around the world, and that's a wave big enough to drown a lot of people.''
 On the other hand, helping American automakers might have strong political support but does not meet this economic test, Mr. Breeden said. 
 ''If you're trying to win the electoral votes of Michigan, you can promise who knows what, but in terms of risks to the entire economy, it's not as immediate a threat,'' he said.
 In recent months, the automakers' finances have been deteriorating, and Senators John McCain and Barack Obama have voiced support for providing billions in loans to automakers in Detroit.
 On Monday, the chief executive of the Ford Motor Company, Alan R. Mulally, said he expected broad support in Congress for a loan program to help automakers accelerate their development of more fuel-efficient vehicles.
 In his first public comments on the issue, Mr. Mulally defended a proposed $25 billion loan package as a critical piece of a larger mandate to improve fuel-economy standards.
 The loan program is drawing additional scrutiny because of the federal government's decision to take over the finances of Fannie and Freddie, but Mr. Mulally said his industry was seeking a very different kind of assistance.
 He said the bailouts of Freddie and Fannie had little in common with the incentive program for manufacturing advanced-technology vehicles written into the fuel-economy bill. 
 ''I absolutely don't think it's a bailout,'' Mr. Mulally said Monday. ''It's going to be a loan at lower interest rates with a caveat to pay it back.''
 The loans are tied to an energy bill signed last year to raise corporate average fuel economy standards for cars and trucks by 40 percent by 2020. 
 Ford, as well as General Motors and Chrysler, is hoping that funding for the program can be completed before Congress finishes its abbreviated legislative session this month. The Detroit automakers are still discussing whether their chief executives will appear together in Washington to push for the money.
 G.M.'s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, is expected to address the need for the loan program during an appearance at a Senate Energy Committee panel discussion on Friday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In 2002, airline executives testified at a House subcommittee about the financial condition of the industry, which received aid after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HYUNGWON KANG/REUTERS)
From left, John Swearingen, chairman of Continental Illinois, in 1984, and James Dimon, of JPMorgan Chase, and Alan Schwartz, of Bear Stearns, in April. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, LEFT TO RIGHT, MARK ELIAS/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES)(C4) ILLUSTRATION (C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); TERRORISM (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (94%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (85%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%); JAMES DIMON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008



234 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: The Key to Wedded Bliss? Money Matters

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
IF you ask married people why their marriage works, they are probably not going to say it's because they found their financial soul mate.
 But if they are lucky, they have. Marrying a person who shares your attitudes about money might just be the smartest financial decision you will ever make. In fact, when it comes to finances, your marriage is likely to be your most valuable asset -- or your largest liability.
 Marrying for love is a relatively recent phenomenon. For centuries, marriages were arranged affairs, aligning families for economic or political purposes or simply pooling the resources of those scraping by.
 Today, while most of us marry for romantic reasons, marriage at its core is still a financial union. So much of what we want -- or don't want -- out of life boils down to dollars and cents, whether it's how hard we choose to work, how much we consume or how much we save. For some people, it's working 80-hour weeks to finance a third home and country club membership; for others, it means cutting back on office hours to spend more time with the family. 
 ''A lot of the debates people have about money are code for how we want to live our lives,'' said Betsey Stevenson, assistant professor of business and public policy at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, who researches the economics of marriage and divorce. ''A lot of the choices we make in how we want to live our lives involve how we spend our money.''
 Making those choices as a team is one of the most important ways to preserve your marital assets, and your union, experts say. But it's that much easier when you already share similar outlooks on money matters -- or when you can, at the very least, find some middle ground.
 The economies achieved by pairing up are fairly obvious. However, the costs of divorce can be financially devastating, especially when children are involved. And, not surprisingly, money manages to force a wide wedge between many couples.
 ''Most people think people break up over sex issues and children issues -- and those are issues -- but money is a huge factor in breaking up marriages,'' said Susan Reach Winters, a divorce lawyer in Short Hills, N.J.
 Not everyone is married to a financial twin, and that's not necessarily a problem. There are several ways that you and your significant other can become more compatible, and ultimately more prosperous, when it comes to money.
 These guidelines are compiled from the successfully married and from experts on psychology, divorce and finance:
 TALK AND SHARE GOALS Before walking down the aisle, couples should have a talk about their financial health and goals. They should ask each other tough questions: Do we want children? When? Who will care for them? Will they go to public or private school? What kind of life do we want? When will we retire? 
 ''In my ideal plan for couples, they would have a meeting every week on their finances,'' said Karen Altfest, a financial planner who runs the New York firm L. J. Altfest & Company, with her husband, Lewis. ''That way, they are in sync with each other's goals.''
 Set those goals together. Jerry Ballard, 58, a former insurance executive in Houston, said that he and his wife of 36 years, Susan, also 58, managed to avoid money clashes because they share a savings philosophy. ''The cardinal rule was that we don't interrupt our savings,'' he said, adding that they saved between 10 and 20 percent of their salaries each year. As long as they did that, they were less likely to disagree about spending.
 Eric Gundlach, 53, of Owings Mills, Md., who has been married for 29 years, said he and his wife, Ann-Michele, ''made our expectations explicit.'' These included sending their son to private school and having big experiences, like traveling, in lieu of purchasing things. 
 RUN A HOME LIKE A BUSINESS Make a budget and keep track of earnings, expenses and debts. And structure your business as a partnership; when it comes to making big financial decisions and setting goals, do it together. ''When they are making the decisions together, they really have ownership of those decisions and any results of those decisions,'' said Mary Ann Sisco, national wealth adviser at JPMorgan's private wealth management division. ''Even if you have negative results, you tend to weather the storm better.''
 Share responsibilities, too. Though one partner tends to control the finances, advisers recommend rotating tasks. One person should handle investments for a certain period, while the other pays the bills; rotate and repeat.
 BE SUPPORTIVE OF CAREERS Having a supportive partner helps you professionally, which should trickle down to your mutual bottom line. ''Marrying the right person helps you succeed in your career through encouragement and support, the only kind of support that comes through a supportive, intimate relationship,'' said Mr. Gundlach, whose wife backed his decision to start a management consulting practice after 22 years as a human resources executive. 
 ENJOY, BUT WITHIN REASON Create a cash cushion, and live a lifestyle you can sustain. Many people who were working at hedge funds that went bust or financial firms like Bear Stearns are learning these lessons now. Ms. Sisco, of JPMorgan, said that because her younger clients haven't experienced a downturn, they assumed the money would keep pouring in.
 She said she is working with one couple in their early 30s who have two young children. Right before the husband lost his job on Wall Street, the couple had ordered $35,000 drapes. They had to move to a smaller apartment in Manhattan and had to sell their vacation home. 
 USE A MEDIATOR Perhaps both of you have strong yet divergent opinions about how to invest. Or maybe you are a saver while your spouse prefers to hand over a big piece of earnings to Bavarian Motor Works. An independent third party, whether a financial planner or a therapist, can help you find a middle ground. 
 Marc B. Schindler, a financial planner at Pivot Point Advisors in Bellaire, Tex., recently did this for a client who complained that his wife spent a thousand dollars a month on her wardrobe. Mr. Schindler then contacted the wife, who said her husband spent just as much on dinner with his buddies. So the husband asked Mr. Schindler to show how much they would save if they invested the $12,000 she spent each year. Mr. Schindler -- careful to title the report ''Clothing, Dinner or Invested?'' -- ran an analysis and found that the couple would have $1.6 million after 28 years, assuming a 9 percent rate of return. ''They are going to try and compromise,'' he said.
 MAINTAIN SOME INDEPENDENCE Pooling resources is important, but so is maintaining a degree of financial independence. Carve out some money for both partners to spend on things that make them happy. And when paring back, it's essential that each person make sacrifices.
 INVEST IN YOUR MARRIAGE Spend it -- time and money -- together. Go on dates. ''What that does is enliven the marital foundation,'' said Gary S. Shunk, a Chicago therapist who specializes in wealth issues. ''It's a kind of investment into the heart and soul of the relationship.'' 
 Think of it as dollar-cost averaging your marriage, where you make small investments over time. If you wait until retirement, it could be too late. 
 Melanie Schnoll-Begun, a managing director in the Citigroup Family Office, worked with a couple that waited too long. The husband had amassed great wealth for the family, and his wife kept a beautiful home. But once the husband retired, ''they found out that over the years they grew so farapart that they didn't have enough in common,'' she said. 
 ''They had this magnificent wealth, and it was the building of this wealth that ultimately led to their divorce.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MARITAL PROPERTY (78%); FAMILY (78%); WORK WEEK (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



235 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: FedEx Expects to Beat Its Forecast

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The FedEx Corporation said it would report a profit of $1.23 a share for the quarter ended Aug. 31, beating its forecast as fuel costs fell. The stock rose as much as 8.5 percent after regular trading. 
 Earnings had been projected to be 80 cents to $1 a share in the fiscal first quarter, the company said. Analysts expected 95 cents a share, the average of 12 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
 FedEx reaffirmed its full-year profit forecast of $4.75 to $5.25 a share, saying ''weaker macroeconomic conditions'' would temper the quarterly gain. The company, based in Memphis, said in June that it was reducing incentive compensation, trimming capital investment and paring discretionary spending to save money.
 ''While sustained declines in fuel prices could improve our full-year outlook, the slowing economic growth trends in the U.S. are now extending to other areas of the global economy,'' the chief financial officer, Alan Graf, said in a statement.
 FedEx will announce its quarterly earnings on Sept. 18.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); TRENDS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (93%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (93%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (93%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



236 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Airstrike in Pakistan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 What unpropitious timing for America to attack Pakistan at the dawn of new democratic elections (''U.S. Attack on Taliban Compound Kills 23 in Pakistani Border Area,'' news article, Sept. 9). 
 In a Pentagon-commissioned, five-missile airstrike that was hardly coincidentally timed, Washington's agenda was clear: to alert Islamabad that allegiance in the war on terrorism is a nonnegotiable item.
 How the airstrikes resonated among the Pakistani public, however, was far different: the new president of Pakistan, Asif Ali Zardari, remains a United States stooge. Is this an effective way of supporting a fledgling democracy, by undermining its leadership mere hours before taking office? 
 Furthermore, this is hardly an effective way of undermining fundamentalism; if anything, the airstrike breeds more, not less, extremism. Give the tribal regions, instead, an alternative to militancy and help Islamabad do the same.
 Where illiteracy and unemployment abound, give them something to work toward. And do it more strategically than with ill-timed airstrikes.
 Michael Shank
 Arlington, Va., Sept. 9, 2008
 The writer is communications director of the Institute for Conflict Analysis and Resolution at George Mason University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



237 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1817 words

HEADLINE: Learning to Share

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
THE day will come, or may have already, when your children think of your money as theirs. 
 In uncertain economic times like these, with the stock and housing markets down, credit markets tightening and widespread anxiety about the economic future taking hold, the subject of inheritance can be even more fraught for a family: parents may worry over the fate of their fortune, and children may feel the need to dip into it.
 A parent's instinct under such stress -- to put off discussion until far in the future -- can have its own set of costs. 
 Putting off discussion and then springing an unwelcome surprise in a will can poison the reservoir of family joy that parents want to bequeath to the next generation, resurrecting or exacerbating sibling rivalries, especially in blended families created through divorce or remarriage after the death of a spouse. 
 Succession is a natural progression, as old as the concept of private property, yet many parents never bother to tell their children about plans for their estate. 
 Eric Zeller, a prosperous Rochester businessman, said that when his five children were young he started preparing them for what would be in his will. ''It's natural for children to think about your money becoming theirs,'' Mr. Zeller said. His approach, explaining his values and his intentions as his children matured, hews close to what experts recommend.
 Grown children who know their parents have assets typically expect the money to be left to them in equal shares, say lawyers, wealth advisers and psychologists with long experience in the legal, practical and emotional aspects of inheritance. 
 Parents, though, often have different plans, deciding that Morgan has enough; that Jack the spendthrift should receive an annuity; that Judy's special needs after an accident require extra consideration; or even that the best gift is to leave the children little or nothing material. 
 Mitchell Gans, a law professor at Hofstra University in Hempstead, N.Y., who has helped develop some of the most complex estate plans in the country, recommends that in such cases you should prepare the will and then notify ''the kids that you are cutting out -- or who are getting less than the others.''
 ''If you have the courage to do that,'' Professor Gans said, ''you cut down significantly the chance of litigation after death.''
 Being upfront may be hard but could serve you in the long run. ''Informing the children or grandchildren does indeed change the dynamic in the relationship,'' he said. ''Kids do get angry at being cut off, but if you say nothing their anger will be directed not at you, but at the favored child. You need to ask yourself, 'Why should this kid be the target of the anger?' Why would you do that to them?''
 When you are not honest with a child or grandchild about what you are doing, Professor Gans said, you are, in effect, lying: ''There is deceit going on and that deceit will have consequences.''
 Unequal distributions, however sensible they may seem to parents, often dredge up sibling rivalries. Claims that a favored child exercised undue influence over a parent, especially an aged parent, can find their way to the courthouse, where defending the will takes its toll through legal fees.
 Gerald Le Van, a family wealth mediator in Black Mountain, N.C., and author of ''Healthy Wealth in Families: Sharing Prosperity, Happiness and Purpose,'' advises clients that ''sitting down and talking to your children about your plans could avoid a great deal of litigation.'' 
 Mr. Le Van, one of two dozen such specialists in the country, said ''the children and grandchildren may not like your choices, but at least they feel like you treated them as adults, that you genuinely asked what they wanted and they can then say to themselves, 'O.K., this is not what I wanted, but you don't always get what you want.' ''
 Mr. Le Van was a trusts and estates lawyer for 25 years before shifting to advising families on wealth transfers, a career switch partly motivated by the widespread practice of estate lawyers' talking only to their clients and not to the beneficiaries of wills. 
 ''Liability insurers caution estate lawyers not to talk to the beneficiaries because it is hard to make them understand that you are not their lawyer,'' Mr. Le Van said. 
 The idea that Mom and Dad and their lawyers should meet with the children and the children's own lawyers is, to Mr. Le Van, as disturbing as it is absurd. But as a wealth mediator he faces no such issues in talking to all generations about an inheritance plan, which he said is ''always valuable and, when there is a family business, it is absolutely crucial.''
 He said that in the last 26 years only two families -- one, the family of his first client -- ended up in court over inheritance issues. 
 The first crucial step, communicating, does not necessarily mean telling children how much to expect, but rather sketching the outlines of how your money will be divided.
 Mr. Zeller, for example, said that as his resources grew, so did his concerns about how wealth would affect his children. He worked at Zeller Electric, an equipment supply business founded by his father, until 1986, when he bought out his father.
 Over the next 15 years he built the business from a half-dozen employees to more than 80 while raising four sons and a daughter largely on his own. Resisting the call of the suburbs, he raised his children in the city and urged them to find ways to earn money as they became teenagers. 
 Seven years ago, Mr. Zeller sold the family business for what he thought was an exceptionally good price. He had long ago decided against leaving his money to his children, so while his children were still small, Mr. Zeller began talking to them about making their own way in the world. 
 Mr. Zeller said two experiences influenced his views. One was hard times, when he was in junior high in Buffalo a half-century ago and he felt the social sting of not having enough. His parents got by on borrowed money, which made him determined to be independent. 
 The other view developed after his father prospered, which moved them into the social orbit of wealthy Rochester families. The son noticed that some of his parents' new friends extinguished every spark of ambition in their children by showering them with gifts of money.
 ''They ruined their kids' lives,'' Mr. Zeller said, ''because they did not make them independent and so they don't know how to work; all they really know is how to ask for more money.''
 To prevent this way of thinking, Mr. Zeller prepared his sons and daughter from early childhood to think about those who were born into less fortunate circumstances. He talked a lot about the value of not just a college education, but of being able to study full time without being distracted by work.
 Eventually, Mr. Zeller's estate will help as many as 50 poor Rochester children attend college each year, paying their costs and giving each one a little spending money. That is just the kind of distribution that can prompt litigation by children expecting the money will go to them, unless, as with the Zellers, the children not only know about the plan, but embrace it.
 His children are familiar with his support for the precollege mentoring program for disadvantaged teens at Hillside Children's Center, the largest agency caring for troubled, orphaned or impoverished children in Rochester, which will administer the scholarships.
 Mr. Zeller's daughter, April Debes, a suburban Rochester homemaker with one small child, said that ''we were raised with the concept of not having an inheritance.''
 ''We had money growing up,'' she said. ''A nice house in the city, nice vacations, Dad belonged to a club and we went to Catholic schools, so we never wanted, but we never had too many clothes like some kids, and I worked as soon as I could so I could be independent.''
 Mr. Zeller did not completely cut out his children and grandchildren. 
 ''I've given my children an education and told them all of their children will also be educated, so that is one of the caveats in 'no inheritance,' '' Mr. Zeller said. ''My goal is to educate inner-city children, but it would be sort of stupid if I didn't also make sure my own grand-children were educated.''
 Relieving children of having to save for their children's college education is itself a significant gift. In addition, Mr. Zeller, who has a taste for fancy resorts, takes his children and their families on vacation each year.
 The children also inherited some money from their mother. That money helped four of them buy homes. The fifth is still pondering what to do with the money, Mr. Zeller said.
 Inheritance anxiety among children often arises when one parent dies and the other finds a new love. 
 One wealthy California real estate investor said that when he became widowed after a half-century of marriage and later married again, one of his three children grew hostile. ''My daughter was civil-to-cold to my wife,'' he said, insisting that he not be identified because they are investment partners and he fears stirring more hostility.
 The man said an offhand remark by his son-in-law opened his eyes to a painful reality.
 ''My daughter is quite a businesswoman and I admired that, and then one day my son-in-law said, 'If we have 50 million we want 75,' and at that point I realized all they think about is money, money, money and that did not feel good,'' the man said, sighing.
 A friend, a retired judge, told him to expect that his daughter would sue to break his will, challenging any provisions that support his second wife, who is a dozen years younger. 
 Jane Peebles, an estate lawyer in Beverly Hills, Calif., who has represented the man for more than a decade, said that the daughter's actions alarmed her so much that before the wedding she encouraged more than just a prenuptial agreement. 
 ''I persuaded my client to get a letter from a psychologist or psychiatrist attesting to his legal capacity,'' Ms. Peebles said. ''I also recommended, and he agreed, that we videotape the execution of his new estate-plan documents so that he could explain why he was doing what he did and to show he had full mental capacity.''
 The man said that ''the thought that my will would be challenged is frightening, humiliating and embarrassing and, now that I have talked to more of my friends about this, I find that this is not that unusual.''
 Olivia Mellan, a psychotherapist who runs the Web site moneyharmony.com, said even middle-aged children tended to ''interpret the absence of money in a will as being the absence of love from a parent.''
 When children cannot accept an uneven split, or some of the money going to a stepparent, Ms. Mellan recommends telling them: ''This is the only way I can die peacefully. I love you, but when it comes to my money, this is what I have to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY CENTER, ADAM JONES/GETTY IMAGES
TOP, FROM LEFT, ROBBERT KOENE/GETTY IMAGES
RICHARD DU TOIT/GETTY IMAGES
PANORAMIC IMAGES/GETTY IMAGES
RALPH LEE HOPKINS/NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC/GETTY IMAGES)
 NO SURPRISES: Eric Zeller with his daughter, April Debes, and grandson Jack, left, and his daughter-in-law Allison Zeller at his home in Irondequoit, N.Y. Most of Mr. Zeller's estate will pay for college scholarships for poor children in Rochester, a decision he has long discussed with his children, and one they endorse.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES RAJOTTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. H8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); FAMILY (78%); PARENTING (78%); PARENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); WILLS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (67%); LAWYERS (66%); LITIGATION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); PSYCHOLOGY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



238 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: A Squeeze on Retailers Leaves Holes at Malls

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
It was planned when the local real estate market was very hot, and now the Crossroads of Cresthill, a modest-size strip mall of 44,000 square feet in the Chicago suburbs, is almost completed. But the developer, Gierzyck Midwest, has managed to nail down only a couple of small tenants. The 10,000-square-foot anchor it hoped to land, Menards, a hardware retailer, was lost to another shopping center a mile away.
 So Gierzyck is offering prospective tenants something that may become more common in future months: free rent. And not just while the store is being fitted out but even after it opens, said Dan Tiberi, a senior associate at Gierzyck. ''It's our way to get more people to look at our center,'' he said. ''With the market taking a turn for the worse, we decided to address the problem.'' 
 In larger shopping malls, operators have not yet had to resort to giving away their space to attract tenants, but most landlords are facing mounting challenges these days. Vacancies are up, retail sales have been disappointing, and long established chains like Mervyn's, Linens 'n Things, Boscov's and the Sharper Image have filed for bankruptcy protection, raising the specter of more dark spaces with fewer potential tenants to replace them. 
 Some 6,500 chain stores are expected to close this year, the largest number since 2001, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers, a trade group. When stores close, neighboring stores may be entitled to exit or to have their rent lowered.
 Retailers like the Gap are not only curtailing their expansion plans but are also trying to squeeze their stores into smaller spaces to reduce rental costs. The popular Cheesecake Factory restaurant chain is experimenting with a smaller prototype. American Eagle is asking landlords in poorly performing shopping centers for rent reductions. 
 ''Retailers are making an enormous effort to focus on the bottom 10 percent of their portfolios,'' said Michael S. Wiener, the chief executive of Excess Space Retail Services, a company based in Lake Success, N.Y., that helps tenants shed excess space or restructure their leases. He said his business was up by 50 percent this year. About half the vacated spaces are likely to be subleased, but many empty boxes in second-tier markets ''may not be desirable for years to come,'' he said.
 For strip malls, the vacancy rate is 8.2 percent, the highest since 1995, and the average asking rent declined by 0.4 percent from the first quarter of the year to the second quarter -- the first drop this decade, said Sam Chandan, the chief economist for Reis Inc., a New York research company that tracks the top 76 metropolitan areas.
 The vacancy rate for regional malls is 6.3 percent, the highest since 2002. Though mall rents rose by 0.2 percent from the first quarter to the second, all retail rents are down when inflation is taken into account, Mr. Chandan said. New centers that opened in the first half of this year were just 62.8 percent occupied, on average, compared with 72.1 percent for those that opened last year, he said.
 With all the problems in retail real estate, the default rate remains low for loans issued to mall owners that were packaged with other mortgages and sold to investors as commercial mortgage-backed securities.
 Realpoint, a credit rating agency in Horsham, Pa., has tracked 127 mall loans that are delinquent or in default, including a $22.2 million mortgage on Midway Mall in the Dallas suburb of Sherman, Tex. Like many older malls, Midway, which is managed by Simon Property Group, the largest operator in the country, was unable to withstand competition from a nearby new open-air center, Sherman Town Center, and is nearly half vacant.
 In the face of a prolonged housing crisis, the decline in consumer spending, and the lack of construction financing, developers have been forced to abandon, postpone or scale back projects.
 Don Chapman, a managing director at Ariel Preferred Retail Group of Williamsburg, Va., which owns seven outlet centers across the country, began lining up tenants a year ago for a $90 million outlet center he plans to build in Rockford, Ill., but is finding that lenders are insisting on onerous terms, including more equity as well as personal guarantees from the developer. ''Our thinking was that we would be in the ground by now,'' said Mr. Chapman, who plans to continue seeking tenants. ''It's taking longer than we anticipated.''
 Brian M. Smith, the chief investment officer for Regency Centers, a national strip mall developer and operator based in Jacksonville, Fla., said the company revised its development strategy in the spring of 2007. ''We saw it coming,'' Mr. Smith said. ''We dropped $400 million worth of projects and totally revamped our pipeline.'' 
 Regency shelved plans to build shopping centers in areas where new housing developments had stalled. Instead, the company focused on affluent areas where land costs and strict zoning regulations limit competition, he said. A broker who represents national retailers, Walter T. Wahlfeldt, a senior vice president at Jones Lang LaSalle, said tenants had begun exercising their right to back out of their leases when the developer has been unable to secure an anchor tenant. The consequences of the economic downturn vary from region to region. Las Vegas and Orange County, Calif., are suffering from problems related to the subprime debacle, but retail vacancies remain low because these markets were so strong to begin with, said Hessam Nadji, a managing director at Marcus & Millichap, a national real investment brokerage based in Encino, Calif. Mr. Nadji said he expected those markets to deteriorate, while San Francisco, San Jose and San Diego were likely to remain healthy.
 But all retail sectors are losing business, including the newer open-air centers that cater to well-heeled shoppers, known in the industry as lifestyle centers. ''The difference with this downturn is that it's affected all forms of discretionary retail spending,'' said Malachy Kavanagh, a spokesman for the shopping center trade group.
 Paul Morgan, an analyst at Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Company who specializes in real estate investment trusts, said the lifestyle sector became ''overheated'' in recent years as developers rushed to build them. ''There will be a significant correction, except for the very good ones,'' he said. 
 And shopping centers that are limited to large and medium-size stores -- a Home Depot, say, with an Office Depot and a Circuit City -- may have bigger challenges than grocery-anchored strip malls with smaller stores, said Nicholas K. Vedder, an analyst at Green Street Advisors of Newport Beach, Calif. ''One vacancy has more of an economic impact,'' he said. ''It might be difficult to find someone to fill that space.''
 Steven B. Greenberg, the president of the Greenberg Group, a company in Hewlett, N.Y., that represents national retailers, said that some of his clients were getting rent discounts of as much as 20 percent in some top malls. 
 ''Tenants fall into two groups,'' Mr. Greenberg said. ''One group is hiding under a rock waiting for things to settle down because sales are not good. The other group sees an opportunity to strike better deals and get real estate that was not available before.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Michael Wiener, above, helps retailers shed excess space. The Midway Mall, top, a shopping center in Sherman, Tex., is nearly half vacant.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRK CONDYLES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Space for Rent: Sources: Reis
Marcus & Millichap Research Services More retail space is going unrented. The lowest vacancy rates tend to be concentrated on the coasts and the highest tend to be in the South and Midwest. Chart details bar graph for OCCUPANCY RATE FOR STRIP MALLS IN THE YEAR THEY WERE COMPLETED
and VACANCY RATE OF RETAIL SPACE IN 2Q of '08.(Sources: Reis
 Marcus & Millichap Research Services) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); HARDWARE STORES (76%); RETAIL SALES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%)

COMPANY: REIS INC (60%); LINENS 'N THINGS INC (55%); TSIC INC (55%); CHEESECAKE FACTORY INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (54%)

TICKER: REIS (NASDAQ) (60%); CAKE (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (60%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (55%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (55%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (55%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (53%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (53%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%); MIDWEST USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



239 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Union Plans a Protest Strike as Renault Looks to Cut 6,000 Jobs Through Buyouts

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Plans by the carmaker Renault to cut about 6,000 jobs through buyouts met with resistance Tuesday, as a union called a one-day protest strike.
 ''The sickness at Renault today isn't that there are too many employees,'' a spokesman for the union, the Confederation Generale du Travail, said. ''The problem is that demand is weak.'' 
 The spokesman, who asked not to be identified, in keeping with union rules, said that rather than cut jobs, the company should introduce affordable new models that customers want.
 He said the strike, to be held Thursday, would be followed by additional action in early October if workers called for it.
 Renault employs about 41,700 people in France, not including those at subsidiaries. A Renault spokeswoman, Nathalie Bourotte, said the company was planning to offer about 4,900 buyouts in France. Renault also wants to eliminate 1,100 jobs in Europe outside France. Hardest hit will be the Sandouville plant in western France, which makes the Laguna, a family-size sedan. A thousand workers will be laid off there.
 In July, Renault cut its 2009 sales target by 10 percent and said it would reduce its European work force, saying that economic conditions had deteriorated more than it had expected. The company said it hoped that by offering buyouts to workers it could avoid involuntary layoffs, as the French labor code makes firing workers expensive and difficult.
 Like other automakers, Renault has struggled with high costs for raw materials, and the tight credit market and higher inflation have made it harder for customers to buy cars. Auto sales over all in the United States fell 10.6 percent from a year earlier in the January-to-July period, according to Ward's Automotive Group, and the rate of decline accelerated in the second quarter. Western European sales fell 2 percent in the first six months of the year, according to the European Automobile Manufacturers' Association.
 ''The company has little choice but to start adjusting their cost base,'' Michael Tyndall, an analyst at Nomura International in London, said. ''If they're going to make 10 percent fewer cars, they're going to have to spend 10 percent less in building them.''
 The chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, has outlined a plan to raise the company's operating profit margin to 6 percent by 2009. Despite the July revision to the automaker's sales forecast, Mr. Ghosn said the target remained intact.
 ''Europe is somewhere between 6 and 12 months behind the United States in the cycle, and it's looking pretty grim for demand,'' Mr. Tyndall said. He predicted that automakers would find the global market even tougher in 2009 than in 2008.
 The company also said Tuesday that it was investing 1.8 billion euros, or $2.5 billion, in its new Megane compact hatchback. Renault plans to introduce the car at the Paris Motor Show in October. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); SEDANS (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); SALES FIGURES (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); SALES PLAN (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); SALES PROJECTIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); INFLATION (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (96%)

TICKER: RNO (PAR) (96%); RNO (BIT) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%)

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); WESTERN EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



240 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: In Tough Times, Even the Billionaires Worry

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
DO you have millions of dollars in the bank and still worry about filling up your gas tank? Do you fear that the housing slowdown may mean your sprawling beachfront property will face the auction block?
 As the economy has soured, Lee Hausner, a psychologist at IFF Advisors Inc., in Irvine, Calif., who works primarily with wealthy families, has noticed rising anxieties about spending. 
 She has a test for such clients: she asks them to calculate their monthly expenses -- from Botox shots to country club fees -- and their monthly income from work and investments. Then she has them cut 10 or 20 percent off the income figure. If they can still afford their lifestyle, she tells them that they have enough of a cushion to protect them from a troubled economy. In most cases, she finds that her clients are fine. 
 ''You control the wealth,'' she said. ''The wealth does not control you.''
 But the combination of depressed financial investments and declining real estate values is a formidable burden, even for those who have accumulated the most. ''Almost everybody is worrying, including people who are billionaires,'' said Dennis Pearne, a psychologist in Framingham, Mass., who works with wealthy patients. He says lately he has noticed that ''the worry increases with the size of the holdings.'' 
 The bigger the amount, the more patients have to worry about losing, and these losses prey on their deepest fears about money, Dr. Pearne said. Either they feel that they did not deserve the money in the first place, or they feel entitled to their wealth and are angry when it is gone, he said. Dr. Pearne advises such patients not to make major decisions about their investments until they have a team of trustworthy financial advisers to guide them. Then he counsels them on their specific issues.
 ''To the extent that they have shame, then the shame multiplies with the size of the fortune,'' he said. ''The more they have, the more they're afraid they're going to act out with it.'' This could include taking their children out of private school or selling homes at losses.
 Kenneth Mueller, a Manhattan psychotherapist who counsels many wealthy people, agreed that patients can become overwhelmed by the magnitude of the numbers. For example, he said, their income may have shrunk to $2 million in 2008 from $20 million in 2007, or their $10 million in stocks may have lost 10 percent of its value. These declines can stir up insecurities, he said. ''They remember any form of deprivation, physical or emotional.'' He counsels that these are ''old worries'' to be worked through, not present realities.
 In fairness, worrying about money is natural. It stems from the primal need to have enough food to survive through winter, says Robert A. Kenny, associate director of the Center on Wealth and Philanthropy at Boston College. ''We have been worrying about having enough for thousands of years,'' he said. Mr. Kenny is working on a survey of people with an average net worth of $50 million, and he said that about half of them think they have ''enough'' money. 
 Some worriers are learning a valuable lesson. Advisers like Anthony J. Guinta, the client service director at the wealth management firm Homrich & Berg in Atlanta, said he had clients who assumed that their stocks would appreciate endlessly. After warning them for years about spending, he is now watching them cut back on luxuries. ''Even though we told them they should rein in their spending a little bit, their portfolio was covering that overage,'' he said.
 Psychologists and wealth advisers say that most wealthy worriers haven't cut back on charitable giving. Dr. Hausner said that her clients see donating as part of their identities. ''They've kind of gotten hooked on it,'' she said of the satisfaction they derive. 
 Therapists are also reminding their clients that, like life itself, building wealth does not take a linear path. Elyse Goldstein, a psychologist on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, said that this was important for clients in their 20s and 30s -- who have never worked through a major downturn -- to hear. She tells them that life has a ''certain ambiguity,'' which makes it interesting. 
 She says that male clients are struggling with worries more than female clients. ''Women are pretty used to fighting their way up the corporate ladder and almost expect adversity,'' she said. 
 Advisers also remind worriers that, in many cases, they have benefited from the economic upheaval. Mr. Guinta points out to clients complaining about gasoline prices that their investments in energy companies and commodities have soared. When they complain about how expensive their trips to Europe have become, he shows them how much they have profited from the performance of their international stocks.
 For moments of panic, there are mantras. Dr. Goldstein tells her clients -- especially those working on Wall Street -- to tell themselves, ''I'll deal.'' 
 After all, she says, ''When somebody has confidence that they can live on less, then it gives them a greater sense of power and comfort.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HIGHER ANXIETY: Kenneth Mueller and Elyse Goldstein counsel wealthy clients in Manhattan. Investment losses can stir up old fears, therapists say.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHILIP GREENBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FAMILY (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



241 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: A Sagging Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''How the Fed Can Fix the World,'' by Roger C. Altman (Op-Ed, Sept. 3): 
 As an economist (Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania) and a retired Wall Street banker, I find lacking in Mr. Altman's excellent article a recognition that the current malaise will continue to deepen, whatever enhanced banking regulation may be ordained. 
 The abject cause of ''stagflation'' and a falling dollar -- this is not over, and soon to be visited by rampant inflation and soaring interest rates -- is our staggering current account deficits and national debt, all generated by a radical Republican regime. 
 If we want to have a war that we cannot afford, the House of Representatives must raise taxes to pay for it -- or find the courage to begin to reduce financing. Not a happy political outcome, but a very basic economic necessity: Are Congress or the candidates awake? And there has been plenty of financial institution regulation and supervision for many years -- but no political leadership to enforce it.
 David Taylor Johannesen South Dartmouth, Mass. Sept. 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BANKING LAW (76%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); US DOLLAR (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (68%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (54%); INTEREST RATES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%)

PERSON: ROGER ALTMAN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



242 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MOSCOW JOURNAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Wary of Protests, Russia Puts Few Limits on Smoking

BYLINE: By COURTNEY WEAVER

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
On a recent summer evening, Nikolai Yashkin lighted a cigarette to relax after a long day of work as a courier. Mr. Yashkin, 58, said he had been smoking since he was a boy, and he made it clear that cigarettes were as much a part of him as the tattoo of the title of a Soviet love song on his arm.
 Mr. Yashkin is among the 60 percent of male Russians who smoke, and if statistics are any guide, he is already near the end of his life span. The average life expectancy of male Russians hovers around 60, and health analysts say the heavy rate of smoking here plays a big role in a looming population drop that has economists here quite worried. 
 Yet the Russian government seems reluctant to tackle the high smoking rate. Even as it tries to forestall a sharp drop in the population with campaigns that heavily promote family life and a higher birthrate, it has barely invested in anti-tobacco ads and education. A pack of cigarettes here can cost as little as 25 cents because, unlike in the United States and many Western European countries, in Russia, tobacco is hardly taxed.
 The government appears to have allowed cigarette sales and smoking to flourish in part because it is wary of engaging in the kind of anti-vice campaigns that have historically produced a sharp backlash in Russia. 
 While the Kremlin tends to keep a strong grip on Russian politics, it remains sensitive to broad-based protests over issues like inflation, pensions and housing, as well as tobacco and alcohol.
 Dmitri Yanin, chairman of the Consumer Societies Confederation, a nonprofit group in Moscow, and one of Russia's top specialists on tobacco control, said officials did not want to curb smoking because they remembered the response to cigarette shortages and crackdowns on alcohol in the 1980s.
 ''The ineffectiveness of these anti-tobacco measures is connected to the state being scared of provoking the protests of various social groups,'' Mr. Yanin said.
 When the Soviet government ran low on state-brand cigarettes in the late 1980s, smokers took to the streets in Moscow, St. Petersburg and Kiev. Mikhail S. Gorbachev, then the Soviet leader, had to appeal to international tobacco manufacturers to send an emergency shipment of 34 billion cigarettes.
 Since then, foreign tobacco companies have become among Russia's biggest foreign investors.
 ''Here in Russia we are seen first and foremost as investors, and only secondly as a tobacco industry,'' said Aleksandr Liuty, corporate affairs director for British American Tobacco Russia, one of the most successful foreign tobacco companies here.
 The Kremlin has not ignored the issue. Russia's president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, and Dr. Gennadi G. Onishchenko, the chief health inspector, have acknowledged that the country must do more to combat smoking.
 Dr. Onishchenko has described foreign tobacco as responsible for the ''nicotine genocide'' of the Russian people, and Mr. Medvedev said in June that smokers might soon have to pay more for insurance.
 ''Fifty percent of citizens are smoking in this country,'' Mr. Medvedev said. ''That's the highest rate in the world. I would not even mention alcohol.''
 Russia has the fourth-highest annual per capita consumption of tobacco in the world, and smoking is responsible for 42 percent of early deaths among Russian men 35 to 59 years old, according to Euromonitor International, a consulting firm. 
 Those figures are feeding fears about what will happen to the Russian economy in the coming years if, as the United Nations Population Division suggests, the Russian population experiences a drop of 21 million people from 2000 to 2025, to 120 million people.
 Even so, Russia's Parliament left for its summer recess without approving any new anti-tobacco measures. In June, Russia signed the World Health Organization's Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, which mandates a series of measures against smoking within five years, but many health care specialists said they were skeptical that the government truly had the will to carry out the plan. 
 It is not only men who are a source of concern for antismoking groups. The groups' representatives said they believed that foreign tobacco companies were responsible for a sharp increase in recent years in the number of women who smoke in Russia. The companies have focused much of their advertising on women, and the percentage of Russian women who smoke has more than doubled since Soviet times.
 The tobacco treaty calls for states to impose higher prices for cigarettes, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta says such price increases have the biggest effect on reducing smoking among teenagers and people with low incomes.
 Three 16-year-old girls who sat smoking in a park in Moscow the other day seemed dubious that any anti-tobacco campaigns would work.
 ''Every cigarette pack has a health warning written on it and in principle every person who buys cigarettes sees this,'' said one of the girls, Maria, who did not want to give her last name because she was an under-age smoker.
 ''It's the same way as it is with alcohol,'' she said. ''More or less everyone drinks and smokes, and nothing is going to change this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A smoking lounge in the Domodedovo International Airport in Moscow. Russia's president said 50 percent of all Russians smoke.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKHAIL GALUSTOV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (93%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); MEN'S HEALTH (76%); POPULATION DECLINE (74%); SMOKING CESSATION (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (71%); FAMILY (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%)

COMPANY: BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (58%)

TICKER: BTI (NYSE MKT) (58%); BTI (JSE) (58%); BATS (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



243 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: August Sales Increased 8.5% at McDonald's

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The McDonald's Corporation, the nation's No. 1 hamburger chain, said Tuesday that global sales at stores open at least a year rose 8.5 percent in August, helped by a big jump overseas. 
 Sales at locations open at least a year, of same-store sales, is a crucial indicator of performance since it measures growth at existing locations rather than newly opened ones.
 The increase follows a rise in global same-store sales of 8.1 percent in August last year.
 The company said its sales in the United States jumped 4.5 percent, driven by its breakfast menu, a promotion tied to the Olympics for the Southern Style Chicken sandwich and biscuit, and ''everyday affordability'' with a focus on beverages. In August, McDonald's priced its Sweet Tea at $1 nationwide.
 The rise in American sales, though, fell short of the 7.4 percent increase the company recorded last August.
 Most restaurant chains are experiencing slower sales this year as consumers cut back on discretionary spending because of high gas prices, tight credit and the weak housing market. McDonald's -- with its dollar menu and fast service -- has fared better than most, but the chain has said it was not completely immune.
 In Europe, where the economy is slowing down in some areas, sales climbed 11.6 percent. Performance was particularly strong in Britain, France and Germany, the chain added.
 Sales rose 10 percent in the Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa division.
 Sales rose 14 percent in the month worldwide and climbed about 5 percent in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (92%); SAME STORE SALES (92%); FAST FOOD (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (98%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (98%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (66%); GERMANY (66%); ASIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



244 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1505 words

HEADLINE: Curator at Met Named Director Of the Museum

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
Ending months of fervid speculation, the Metropolitan Museum of Art reached into its own ranks on Tuesday and chose Thomas P. Campbell, a 46-year-old English-born tapestries curator, to succeed Philippe de Montebello as director and chief executive. 
 The appointment, effective Jan. 1, was approved in a late-afternoon vote by the museum's board of trustees after a suspenseful eight-month search that began when Mr. Montebello, 72, announced plans to retire after 31 years in the post. 
 Given the profile of the Met and Mr. de Montebello, a patrician presence who presided over scores of ambitious exhibitions and acquisitions, it was the most closely watched search ever in the museum world. The Met's committee worked so secretively that some trustees and most of the museum's curators were still unaware on Monday of its decision. 
 In selecting Mr. Campbell, the Met seems to have opted for intellectual heft as well as continuity. A graduate of the Courtauld Institute in London, he arrived at the museum in 1995 and made his reputation through much-praised scholarly catalogs and ambitious shows involving complex logistics and diplomacy. His exhibition ''Tapestry in the Renaissance: Art and Magnificence'' became the sleeper hit of 2002, attracting some 215,000 visitors, more than twice what the museum had projected, with many works that had never been seen in America. 
 Reached by telephone, James R. Houghton, the board chairman, said, ''Clearly we wanted a scholar and art historian who is respected in his field, has a keen intellect and can be decisive.'' 
 In capturing the post, Mr. Campbell appeared to have edged out finalists including Max Hollein, the popular director of the Stadel Museum in Frankfurt, and two Met curators who currently outrank him: Ian Wardropper, 57, the head of Mr. Campbell's department, European sculpture and decorative arts; and Gary Tinterow, 54, the curator in charge of 19th-century, modern and contemporary art.
 Asked whether he expected any ruffled feathers as a result, Mr. Houghton said: ''Probably. This is a hell of a job.'' 
 Yet when Mr. Campbell's name surfaced recently, many of the Met's seasoned curators started rooting for him. Respected among his peers as a scholar, he also happens to be well liked. 
 Although he has not run a big department, his managerial skill was tested when, shortly after his arrival, he became the supervising curator of the Antonio Ratti Textile Center, which houses the Met's encyclopedic collection of 36,000 textiles. 
 In a statement Tuesday, Mr. Campbell said he would build on the Met's traditions of scholarship, ''in ways that are fresh and relevant for the age in which we live.''
 Beyond the challenge of carving out his own identity after the de Montebello years, Mr. Campbell faces the task of maintaining the quality of the museum's programming and covering its vast operating expenses in the face of eroding corporate support. 
 In an increasingly shaky economy, he will have to be an adroit fund-raiser and social butterfly, courting wealthy donors and collectors who can help pay for crucial acquisitions and eventually bequeath collections to the museum. (In a reflection of those pressures, the search committee went so far as to meet the finalists' wives.)
 The ninth director in the Met's 138-year history, Mr. Campbell confronts a world that has radically changed in the decades since Mr. de Montebello took the job. The museum's mandate and its competition are more global than ever, as new museums with innovative agendas are sprouting up in Europe, Asia and unexpected corners like the mega-wealthy United Arab Emirates. 
 Repatriation demands are likely to rear anew, with institutions in China, India and Africa potentially knocking on the Met's door to seek the return of works of art acquired in recent decades. Under Mr. de Montebello, the Met surrendered artifacts including a legendary ancient Greek vessel known as the Euphronios krater that returned to Italy this year. (The Italians argued that it was looted from their soil months before the museum bought it in 1972.)
 While expansions by star architects attract crowds these days, that will not be an option for Mr. Campbell -- at least not at the Met's home on Fifth Avenue, where it cannot extend its already sizable footprint. Unlike the Louvre or the Guggenheim, the Met has given no indication that it would consider opening satellite branches.
 But Mr. Campbell also faces the issue of what it means to be an encyclopedic museum in an age obsessed by contemporary art. The Met must be savvy enough to engage a younger audience without alienating loyal visitors, and its director must be savvy enough to balance that need against its board; at a trustees' dinner this spring, Annette de la Renta, a chairwoman of the museum's board, raised a toast to change, said a trustee who was present.
 For years the museum has been faulted for its spotty 20th- and 21st-century holdings and its halfhearted presentation of younger, contemporary artists. While supporting important acquisitions over the years like Jasper Johns's 1955 ''White Flag,'' Mr. de Montebello made no secret of his lack of interest in cutting-edge art. 
 In a phone interview, Mr. de Montebello praised Mr. Campbell's appointment. ''He's the most modern of us all,'' he said, invoking Met directors. ''We've had a Romanist, a medievalist, but he goes up through the Baroque. 
 ''This is the right choice,'' he added. ''Tom is a very distinguished scholar. I would have been surprised had they brought in someone from the outside.'' 
 The 11-member committee that settled on Mr. Campbell represents artistic interests that are nearly as broad as the museum's holdings. Led by S. Parker Gilbert, a former chairman of Morgan Stanley, and Ms. de la Renta, a passionate devotee of European painting and decorative arts, it also included the board members Cynthia Hazen Polsky, a collector of modern, contemporary and Southeast Asian art; and Shelby White, an antiquities collector who with her husband, Leon Levy, who died in 2003, helped finance the Met's new Greek and Roman galleries. 
 It might have helped Mr. Campbell that, unlike the other two Met curators in the running, he was not overtly campaigning for the job. ''People put him forward,'' Mr. Houghton said of Mr. Campbell. ''There were people here who thought, 'Now, here's a guy with potential who stands for the museum.' ''
 Although Mr. Tinterow remained a contender until late in the search, he is said to have had strained relationships with some powerful board members and senior curators. 
 The expansion of his portfolio in 2004 to include modern and contemporary art in addition to his 19th-century specialty might have worked against him, given that the Met's offerings are viewed as a lackluster reflection of what is happening in that world today. 
 Mr. Campbell also leapfrogged over Mr. Wardropper, whose department has 11 curators that supervise 60 galleries and 60,000 objects from the Renaissance to the beginning of Modernism.
 In the last few weeks, the committee was said to have narrowed its choices to one internal candidate, Mr. Campbell, and one external one, Mr. Hollein. Both are relatively young, as the Met wanted a director who would serve for an extended period.
 Mr. Hollein, who leads the Stadel Museum and the Schirn Kunsthalle in Frankfurt, was born in 1969. The son of the Viennese architect Hans Hollein, he has a degree in business as well as one in art history. His abiding interest is in modern and contemporary art, and as director of the two Frankfurt institutions, he helped shape an exhibition program that included ''Shopping: A Century of Art and Consumer Culture'' and ''Dream Factory Communism: The Visual Culture of the Stalin Era.'' 
 In the end, Mr. Campbell's popularity within the museum coupled with his more traditional scholarly background won him the job. He was born and raised in Cambridge, England, and earned a degree in English language and literature at Oxford University in 1984. He also studied in Christie's fine and decorative arts program in London.
 It was at Christie's that he discovered how overlooked the tapestry field was. From 1987 to 1994 he created the Franses Tapestry Archive in London: with more than 120,000 images, it is now the largest resource on European tapestries and figurative textiles in the world. He received his doctorate from the Courtauld Institute in 1999 after writing a treatise on the art and culture of Henry VIII's court. 
 Hired by the Met in 1995 as an assistant curator in the department of European Sculpture and Decorative Arts, he rose to full curator in 2003. 
 Last year Mr. Campbell organized a sequel to ''Tapestry in the Renaissance.'' When that show, ''Tapestry in the Baroque,'' opened, Mr. Campbell's voice could be heard narrating the audio guide in his British accent. For now, it is far less familiar than Mr. de Montebello's plummy voice, which has been synonymous with the Met for three decades. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thomas P. Campbell (pg.A1)
Thomas P. Campbell, center with open jacket, with conservators who are cleaning a Medici tapestry at the Met. (PHOTOGRAPH BY METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART) (pg.A18) CHART: THE CHANGING OF THE GUARD: Since its founding 138 years ago, the Met has had only eight directors. The ninth, Thomas P. Campbell, assumes his post on Jan. 1.: APRIL 13, 1870 Founding of the museum. The Met would not have a permanent home or paid director until about a decade later. 1879 - 1904 Luigi Palma di Cesnola An Italian-born collector, archaeologist and former United States Army major and American consul in Cyprus. His vast holdings of Cypriot antiquities were among the Met's earliest purchases. 1905 - 1910 Caspar Purdon Clarke A former British civil servant who had directed the institution that became the Victoria and Albert Museum, he was seen as ill suited to the culture of the Met. 1910 - 1931 Edward Robinson An austere personality trained in classical archaeology, he oversaw a period of expansion for the Met, reorganizing the museum into departments based on distinct fields of study. 1931 - 1939 Herbert E. Winlock A renowned Egyptologist first hired by the Met in 1906. His interest in his own field eclipsed his interest in courting donors. Much of the Met's Egyptian collection was amassed on his expeditions. 1939 - 1955 Francis Henry Taylor A medievalist who championed the museum's educational role, he abolished admission fees and attracted a broad public. 1955 - 1966 James J. Rorimer A connoisseur of medieval art who devoted himself to the display and upkeep of objects in the museum. He was reluctant to delegate authority but adept at wooing donors. 1966 - 1977 Thomas Hoving A showman whose taste for hugely publicized blockbusters brought in the masses but also stirred repeated controversy. 1977 - 2008 Philippe de Montebello Won admiration through his support for curators, acquisitions and elegant gallery renovations. His patrician style impressed donors and became known to millions through the Met's audio guides. 2009 - Thomas P. Campbell An English-born scholar of European tapestries who joined the Met as a curator in 1995.(Sources: Metropolitan Museum of Art
''Merchants and Masterpieces'' by Calvin Tomkins (E.P. Dutton, 1970
 Henry Holt, 1989)) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); APPOINTMENTS (91%); ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); SCULPTURE (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); HISTORY (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); APPROVALS (72%); TEXTILES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



245 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Where to Keep Cash When No Investment Seems Safe

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
CASH used to be the most boring of assets. But not this year. 
 Nervous depositors rushed to withdraw money from IndyMac Bank, the California thrift that collapsed in July. Investors holding supposedly liquid auction-rate securities were stunned to discover they could not sell them after the markets seized up in the spring. 
 Others watched as a string of money market mutual funds had to be bailed out. And still others suffered losses in ultrashort bond funds, once considered pillars of stability. 
 ''Normally, bad news for the economy is good news for cash investors,'' said Peter Crane, the head of Crane Data, a money market research firm. ''But because of the flight from the subprime mortgage contagion, this time is different.''
 So what is a high-net-worth investor to do? Getting the most bang for your bucks is not as simple as it used to be. Inflation is a growing concern, chipping away at the benefits from low-yielding deposit accounts. And there are so many cash products to choose from.
 Financial experts say that investors have traditionally kept between 5 and 10 percent of their total assets in cash. But given recent swings in the stock and bond markets, many investors have significantly increased holdings. 
 How much money should you pull out of the market? It's truly a personal decision, based on factors like your appetite for risk, your expected retirement age and your everyday cash needs. Once you have decided, here are some means of reaching your cash management goals.
 DEPOSIT ACCOUNTS A checking account is probably the simplest cash management tool, but few investors use it strategically. Your goal should be to put in enough money to cover your basic needs but no more. After all, checking accounts have just about the lowest yield of any investment, and the interest is taxable. 
 Convenience and safety should be priorities. Choose a bank that does not make you pay for checks and doesn't charge a lot of pesky fees. And pay attention to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance, which kicks in if the bank should fail.
 Single accounts are covered for up to $100,000. Joint accounts have $100,000 of insurance protection per account holder, and retirement and trust accounts also qualify. So spread your money around. ''A married couple can actually shield $1.1 million at one bank just by titling accounts so they are in different ownership categories,'' said Greg McBride, a senior financial analyst at Bankrate.com. 
 MONEY MARKET FUNDS Another portion should be allocated to money market mutual funds, which carry relatively low yields but are generally safe and liquid, despite the problems some of them had over the past year as investments in complex mortgage-related securities soured. 
 Unlike conventional bank accounts, money funds have no government guarantees. But money fund managers have always stepped in to rescue their funds because their reputations are on the line, even during this year's exceptionally volatile markets.
 Still, not all money funds are created equal. You should pay attention to the size of the fund, its holdings, its expenses and its track record. Be careful of so-called sweep account money funds offered by brokerage firms, which usually carry high expenses. 
 High-net-worth investors might want to consider tax-free money funds. Over the past year, their yields have not been appreciably different from their taxable cousins'. Or consider a money market deposit account, which most banks offer. It serves the same purpose as a money fund but carries F.D.I.C. insurance and may pay higher rates. You can use Internet sites like Bankrate.com to search for the highest yields both regionally and nationally. 
 Even so, this is one type of investment where yield should come second. 
 ''Don't be greedy,'' Mr. Crane said. With money funds, don't be ''in the No. 1 yielding anything. You want to be a B student.''
 Bruce R. Bent, who helped invent money market funds in the 1970s and is chief executive of The Reserve, an investment management company, added, ''The most important thing is sleeping well at night.'' 
 C.D.'s AND BROKERED DEPOSITS Investors who do not need their money on hand but are still looking for a safe haven might find certificates of deposit attractive. Banks set their own interest rates, and those badly in need of deposits offer the most attractive rates. C.D.'s are backed by F.D.I.C. insurance. You will have plenty of options. At least six institutions are currently offering one-year C.D.'s at interest rates of 4.25 percent or better.
 The catch: If you need your money at a certain time, you must make sure the maturity of your C.D. matches your investment horizon. If you are forced to cash in early, you will pay a penalty rate and forfeit some interest. 
 Another alternative is buying C.D.'s through your brokerage account. Banks have found this an easy way to raise deposits, and often these C.D.'s will pay higher interest rates than those bought directly from the bank. 
 Brokered deposits are F.D.I.C. insured, but have a few drawbacks. If you need to cash in early, you could suffer a loss since what you will get in return is only what another investor is willing to pay. And if a bank fails, there is a greater chance you could face a delay in getting to your money. That's because, unlike ordinary C.D.'s, brokered C.D.'s are held in the firm's name, not your own, so it can take time to sort out who is owed the money. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); BOND FUNDS (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); RETIREMENT AGE (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (55%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



246 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Goes By the Book

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD; Michael Grynbaum contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: VIENNA 

 BODY:
In an unexpected decision made after a six-hour meeting that lasted well into the night, the OPEC oil cartel said it would reduce its oil production by about half a million barrels a day in a bid to stem a rapid decline in oil prices in recent weeks. 
 The outcome of the meeting, which ended around 3 a.m. Wednesday, represented a significant loss for moderate OPEC producers like Saudi Arabia, which had argued for the group to keep producing at full tilt. 
 But fears that the market was currently oversupplied while demand for oil was slowing led the group to say it would ''strictly comply'' with production quotas set in September 2007. Since then, the group has been producing above those levels to drive prices down. 
 The outcome was presented as a technical adjustment to curb the group's overproduction, but OPEC's president, Chakib Khelil, said the decision meant that OPEC producers would effectively reduce their overall production by 520,000 barrels a day. Oil prices traded electronically in New York jumped $2 a barrel after the decision.In its final statement, the oil-producing group said it had noted ''a shift in market sentiment causing downside risks to the global oil market outlook.'' 
 Given OPEC members' history of frequently pumping more than their quotas, it is not certain that they will abide by the new agreement. 
 Ali Al-Naimi, the oil minister of Saudi Arabia, which has been pumping more than its quota in recent months, left the meeting without any comment. With crude oil heading down toward $100 a barrel, Saudi Arabia and other producers meeting here on Tuesday had suggested that OPEC would keep pumping at full tilt, even as some members of the cartel expressed concerns about rapidly declining prices.
 Members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries account for 40 percent of the world's oil exports. They had scheduled the late-night session to consider how to respond to a 30 percent drop in oil prices since July. Crude oil fell more than $3 a barrel on Tuesday.
 Ahead of the meeting, the cartel's members appeared deeply split, with one camp, led by Iran and Venezuela, advocating reductions in output to stem further price declines, and another, led by Saudi Arabia, wishing to allow prices to fall further. 
 As the group's representatives arrived in Vienna, Mr. Khelil, who is also Algeria's oil minister, said the cartel would probably keep production unchanged. At a news conference held after the meeting, Mr. Khelil said the group was merely responding to oversupply in the market.
 ''My hunch is that prices will be going down despite the decision,'' Mr. Khelil said. ''There is an oversupply; everybody agrees about this.''
 The decision represents a rare case of OPEC's going against the position of its biggest member, Saudi Arabia. The Saudi oil minister had said when he arrived in Vienna early Tuesday that the market was ''fairly well balanced.'' 
 ''We have worked very hard since June to bring prices to where they are now,'' Mr. Naimi told reporters Tuesday morning. ''We have been very successful.''
 Mr. Naimi was referring to a pledge Saudi Arabia made in June at a meeting of producers and consumers in Jeddah to keep pumping at full throttle to bring prices down. The kingdom is producing about 9.5 million barrels a day, 600,000 barrels a day more than its official OPEC quota. 
 Oil prices peaked at $145.29 a barrel on July 3 but have been falling lately because of slowing global demand. On Tuesday, prices fell $3.08 to $103.26 a barrel in New York, their lowest level since April. 
 The drop partly reflected the feeling that Hurricane Ike, which killed at least four people in Cuba and forced more than a million to evacuate, will miss the oil-production platforms in the Gulf of Mexico. About 80 percent of the gulf's offshore oil production remains shut in after the passage of an earlier storm, Hurricane Gustav. 
 Slowing economies and falling oil demand in major developing countries have led to a slowdown in the growth of oil consumption. As a result, many analysts agree there is more than enough oil on the market. Also, refiners typically need less oil in the third quarter, when they shut down for maintenance.
 Behind their sometimes opaque language, OPEC's leaders are forced to perform a delicate balancing act. Leaving production unchanged at a time when demand growth is slowing could precipitate a price collapse, as happened in the late 1990s when prices fell below $10 a barrel. But cutting production at today's high levels could incur the wrath of consumers, who are already unhappy with the elevated prices. Oil has been above $100 a barrel since March.
 In the days leading to the meeting, some countries, like Iran, Libya and Venezuela, had signaled that they wanted the cartel to cut production. OPEC's own analysis suggested that the group was producing far more oil than is needed. According to Lehman Brothers, OPEC is pumping 2.18 million barrels a day more than it did last year. 
 Saudi Arabia is in a particularly sensitive position. The kingdom is the only country with any significant spare capacity and is in a position to impose its will on other OPEC countries. The Saudis recently brought a new field online, called Khursaniyah, which has a production capacity of 500,000 barrels a day.
 But the Saudis are also keenly aware of the state of the market. Oil consumption in the United States, the world's biggest market, is about a million barrels a day lower than last year and consuming nations have pleaded for producers not to reduce their production. Some OPEC members are also worried about a potential slowdown in demand in Europe and Asia.
 Still, there was perceptible anxiety among producers at the speed of the decline in prices. 
 ''We need to be careful that there won't be a price collapse but that is something that does not look probable,'' Venezuela's energy minister, Rafael Ramirez, told reporters. ''Looking at speculation, the dollar and other factors that have been affecting the market, maybe we are going to come to an equilibrium at around $100 a barrel, perhaps this is the level of the market.''
 OPEC's next meeting is scheduled for mid-December.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chakib Khelil, who is Algeria's oil minister and OPEC's president, spoke to reporters Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JORGE SILVA/REUTERS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY RONALD ZAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C4) CHART: CRUDE OIL PRICE: $145.29 a barrel, July 3 high
 $103.26 Sept. 9 Chart shows line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); CARTELS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) SAUDI ARABIA (94%); ALGERIA (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (70%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



247 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Giving Businesses Their Wings

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
AFTER Jim Connor sold SymPro, his software company, to JPMorgan Chase in 2003, he discovered that he was more popular with strangers.
 ''If you sell your company, people start coming to you for advice,'' he said. ''If you listen to a pitch over coffee or lunch, the entrepreneur will start calling you every week, and it becomes almost a business-therapist relationship.''
 These entrepreneurs are hoping to reel in an angel, a popular nickname for a well-heeled investor who's willing to finance startup companies. But they are also hungry for the successful entrepreneur's time, Mr. Connor said. 
 ''In the early stages, the ego-stroking is almost irresistible,'' he said. ''This is the period of seduction.'' 
 Successful entrepreneurs, retired executives, people who have suddenly come into large sums of money and others with considerable assets may find themselves targets in the hunt for angels. They would do well to be cautious, veterans of angel investing say. High business failure rates, slow-to-flourish enterprises and a heavy demand on an angel's time are common pitfalls.
 For that reason, the Securities and Exchange Commission requires anyone who participates in alternative investments -- including angel investing -- to be a ''qualified investor.'' This means they have to demonstrate that they have had a six-figure income for at least the past two years or a net worth of at least $1 million. Experts say that the income requirement is more difficult to meet than the net worth threshold.
 ''In reality, if you only have $1 million, you should not be messing around with this stuff, because it is very risky,'' said David S. Rose, chairman of the New York Angels, an investor group in Manhattan. Like many angels, he recommended $5 million as a realistic floor.
 Seasoned angel investors say they expect roughly half of the companies they finance to evaporate into thin air, and many others will limp along for years before generating a modest profit. Even veteran angel investors say that, at best, one of 10 of the startups they finance generates most of their profits from angel investing. Neophytes who dabble in angel investing are likely to lose their shirts, these veterans say.
 Despite the risk, successful angels tend to be among the most optimistic of investors. A year into the credit crunch, many say the credit markets have no bearing on their investment decisions. The companies they finance are so young -- frequently they do not yet have sales, much less profits -- they would never qualify for small business loans in any credit environment.
 Many long-time angels also say they do not fret about broader economic conditions, because they expect to wait 5 to 10 years before realizing a profit on the businesses they invest in today, and they cannot predict, or worry about, what the economy will look like then.
 But economic concerns may weigh on them in another way. Unlike venture capitalists, who pool capital, primarily from institutional investors, angel investors are playing with their own cash.
 ''What we are hearing from our members is that they continue to see excellent deal flow, in both quality and quantity, and most of them continue to make similar investments in terms of the total amount,'' said Marianne Hudson, the executive director of the Angel Capital Association, a trade group for angel investors. ''But we do have some who are concerned about their own wealth and concerned that it could become harder for them to write checks.''
 Angel investors appear to be spreading their risk around more, said Jeffrey Sohl, a business school professor and director of the Center for Venture Research at the University of New Hampshire. He said that last year, more angels, on average, participated in each deal, while investing a smaller sum per deal. Such investors generally limit angel activities to 5 to 10 percent of their net worth, Professor Sohl said, and given the steep declines in stocks and real estate, they might have less to allocate.
 Most angels are former entrepreneurs who cashed out of their companies either in an initial public offering, or, as is much more likely today, through a private sale to a larger company. Retired corporate executives can also make good angel investors, so long as they understand that startups are very different from large companies, Professor Sohl said. On the other hand, he advised many well-to-do investors without any business background to steer clear of angel investing. 
 Many states offer tax incentives for investing in small businesses in their own state. For a list, go to angelcapitalassociation.org, click on ''Resources'' and look for ''state policy issues.''
 Indeed, supporting local economic development is one reason that angels often cite for their interest in this type of investing. ''When you are a venture capitalist, and you are investing other people's money, return on investment had better be your only motivation,'' said Bill Payne, a founding member of angel investor groups in Montana and Nevada. ''But angel investors are often motivated by other considerations, such as mentoring young entrepreneurs and giving back to the community.''
 Mr. Payne has been an angel investor since the early 1980s, when he sold his company, Solid State Dielectrics, to DuPont. His interest in fostering local economic development led him to start the Frontier Angel Fund three years ago in Kalispell, Mont. The fund's 33 members each put in $50,000, and they vote on each proposed investment. 
 Many of the 300 or so angel investor groups in the United States function almost like social clubs. If enough members decide to invest in a particular company, they often form a limited liability corporation and appoint one member to become the principal contact with the entrepreneur. If only a few members are interested in a deal, they are free to invest on their own.
 Some angels prefer to go it alone. Stuart Coulson sold Gradient Solutions, a travel software company that he founded in his native Ireland, to Sabre Holdings, a software company near Dallas, in 2000. Mr. Coulson and his family recently moved to Palo Alto, Calif., where he hopes to do some angel investing on his own. He is mentoring some Silicon Valley entrepreneurs, although he has yet to invest in their companies. He said he preferred this approach to joining a group, ''but obviously the downside is that it is harder to find deal flow.''
 But after two years on his own, Mr. Connor, the entrepreneur, joined Sand Hill Angels, a group in Silicon Valley. ''Now if anyone comes to me, I tell them, 'Please go to the organization that I belong to,' '' he said. ''It really has given me back control of my time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BESIEGED: The investor Jim Connor joined Sand Hill Angels, which finances new technology companies. When an entrepreneur now tries to pitch directly to him, he tells them to go through Sand Hill.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RANDI LYNN BEACH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); CREDIT CRISIS (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



248 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: How to Know When a Tax Deal Isn't a Good Deal

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
YOU have just left the accountant's office with a plan to keep more of your hard-earned millions of dollars in your hands, rather than turning them over to the I.R.S.
 Smart, legal tax planning? Or the first step toward a nasty audit -- one that could cost you seven figures in unpaid taxes, interest and penalties; might get you sued by the agency; and could even end in a perp walk? 
 With both the I.R.S. and the Justice Department's tax division widening their crackdowns on questionable tax shelters to include scrutiny of offshore banking services and trusts, the issue of safe tax planning for the affluent has become more urgent than ever. 
 Amid the tax code's bewildering tangle of deductions and offsets, the agency's chestnut -- ''if it sounds too good to be true, it is'' -- is too vague a guide for investors with a net worth of several million dollars. 
 Several red flags should get investors' attention during tax planning, said Scott D. Michel, a tax lawyer at Caplin & Drysdale in Washington. ''We're seeing people doing some things they shouldn't do,'' he said. 
 Perhaps the biggest clue that a deal might not pass muster with the I.R.S. is any proposition from your accountant or tax lawyer that produces a tax return dramatically different from ones you filed in previous years. With ''anything that provides outsized benefits from a tax perspective,'' Mr. Michel said, ''you really need to dig deeper'' and ask tough questions of your adviser.
 For example, he said, ''if you've been showing a certain kind of pension plan and benefit, and all of a sudden you start filing returns where the deductions claimed are dramatically higher, that can cause a trip switch to be pulled'' at the I.R.S. 
 Another alert: when a tax practitioner asks that a transaction be kept secret, requiring the client to sign a confidentiality agreement that prevents him from showing the deal's inner workings to another lawyer or accountant. 
 Confidentiality agreements were a hallmark of the mass-marketed, abusive tax shelters, with names like Cobra and Son of Boss, that were sold to thousands of affluent investors from the mid-to-late 1990s to early 2000. Those shelters are gone, having been sniffed out by the I.R.S., which in recent years has offered to settle with their investors in exchange for not taking them to tax court or charging higher penalties.
 The cookie-cutter schemes were a bull-market phenomenon, created to shelter the huge gains made by investors and entrepreneurs during the late '90s Internet boom. In the current sluggish economy, that kind of money is not around, and neither are those large-scale offerings. Over all, the big accounting firms, law firms and banks that designed and sold what the tax expert Lee Sheppard calls ''off the rack'' or ''ready-to-wear'' shelters are not offering any kind of marketed product, risky strategy or strained legal opinion. KPMG, once a leader in questionable shelters, generally no longer offers any kind of tax arrangements to individual investors, except for executives at private companies that it already audits, and works mostly with corporate entities.
 But into the void have stepped a few smaller accounting and regional law firms, which are increasingly offering individual investors complex tax transactions, some custom-designed, that sometimes merit scrutiny, according to Mr. Michel.
 One type of questionable transaction that has come to the attention of the I.R.S. involves something called variable prepaid forwards, which have been increasingly sold to affluent investors. The strategy allows investors to turn their stock holdings into cash while delaying payment of capital gains taxes.
 Particularly vulnerable to suspect tax arrangements are people who have made, not inherited, their money. 
 ''You almost never see a criminal tax case where you have inherited wealth, because they come with inherited lawyers, inherited advisers, inherited accountants,'' said Scott J. Bakal, a tax lawyer at Neal Gerber Eisenberg, in Chicago. ''There's a structure in place. With people who start from nothing and end up under a waterfall of money, the structure isn't there, and there's nobody to say 'no' '' to an abusive shelter.
 Prof. Michael J. Graetz, who teaches at Yale Law School and is a former Treasury official, has helped to define abusive tax shelters, calling them ''a deal done by very smart people that, absent tax considerations, would be very stupid.''
 In general, an investor should ask his tax practitioner how many such strategies he has developed for other clients and what their track record has been before the I.R.S. A new, untested and less commonly used strategy may be riskier. 
 Another warning sign is any tax arrangement that does not require an outlay of cash at the beginning. 
 Ms. Sheppard, a tax lawyer who writes for Tax Analysts, a widely read trade publication, said affluent investors were being offered questionable tax deals that were dressed up to look like legitimate investments, when, in fact, they required no upfront investment and were abusive tax shelters. 
 ''For something to look like an investment, you have to invest,'' she said. ''And it should make some profit other than tax benefits.''
 But she acknowledged that it was not that simple. Just how much profit has been a matter of debate within the I.R.S. The murky tax code offers little help. 
 Through previous ''off the rack'' shelters, the I.R.S. learned how some tax deals were dressed up as investments when, in fact, they were abusive shelters with almost no chance of turning an investment profit. 
 ''Profit has to be substantial relative to tax benefits, but no mathematical formula exists for that yet,'' Ms. Sheppard said. Another troublesome area involves offshore deals, which are ''the flavor of the month'' right now, Mr. Bakal said.
 While keeping money offshore is not against the law, failing to declare those holdings or income to the I.R.S. is. ''Some people think you don't have to report the income until it's brought back onshore, and that's not the law,'' Mr. Bakal said.
 But because many offshore services are sold to individuals to protect money from an investor's taxing authority, many holders of offshore accounts do not declare their income or holdings, at least not in full.
 Since the spring, the Justice Department has been investigating whether UBS, one of the world's largest private banks, violated tax and securities laws through the undeclared offshore banking services it sold to American clients. Some UBS clients are now in trouble with the I.R.S. and are seeking to settle their tax bills privately, out of the eyes of the tax courts, according to federal prosecutors.
 Another area of concern involves foundations in Liechtenstein -- a focus of the Justice Department's offshore banking investigation -- and private foundations in other tax havens, including Panama. ''People see the word 'foundation' and think it's a charitable trust that's tax-exempt, and it's not,'' Mr. Bakal said.
 When handling tax deals that include an offshore component, Ms. Sheppard said she errs on the side of caution. ''Offshore should always be a red flag, really too good to be true,'' she said. ''The United States taxes on the basis of citizenship, not borders; you can't just move your money away.'' The shifting landscape means more work for wealthy investors, who, in an environment in which the I.R.S. has its knives out, need to become more skeptical. 
 ''Here are three warning signs that a tax deal should be avoided,'' said Tanina Rostain, a legal ethics scholar at New York Law School: ''When the tax savings promised are many times the amount of the initial investment, when you are told that there is no financial risk involved and when you are urged not to show it'' to anyone else. 
 ''When the stakes are big,'' she added, ''getting a second opinion from a tax expert not involved in the deal is a good idea.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 19, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Wealth and Personal Finance section on Sept. 10 about tax planning gave an incorrect attribution for a quotation about the dangers of inherited wealth. It was Scott D. Michel, a tax lawyer at Caplin & Drysdale -- not Scott J. Bakal, a tax lawyer at Neal Gerber Eisenberg -- who said: ''You almost never see a criminal tax case where you have inherited wealth, because they come with inherited lawyers, inherited advisers, inherited accountants. There's a structure in place. With people who start from nothing and end up under a waterfall of money, the structure isn't there, and there's nobody to say 'no' to an abusive shelter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DRAWING A LINE: Prof. Michael J. Graetz of Yale warns against deals ''done by very smart people that, absent tax considerations, would be very stupid.''
 CLUES: Tanina Rostain, a legal scholar at New York Law School, says to avoid tax deals that promise ''no financial risk.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); TAX PLANNING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LAWYERS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); AFFLUENT MARKET (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (69%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (66%)

COMPANY: CAPLIN & DRYSDALE CHARTERED (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (68%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



249 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: 7 Lenders To Students To Amend Practices

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
Resolving an investigation into whether they misled consumers, seven student loan companies have agreed to follow a code of conduct for their marketing, the New York attorney general's office said on Tuesday. 
 The companies also agreed to put a total of $1.4 million into a fund to help educate students and their families about financial aid, Andrew M. Cuomo, the attorney general, said in a statement on Tuesday. 
 Those companies are Campus Door, EduCap, GMAC Bank, Graduate Loan Associates, Nelnet, NextStudent and Xanthus Financial Services. 
 An eighth lender, My Rich Uncle, has agreed to the marketing code voluntarily even though the attorney general's office did not find fault with its marketing. 
 Some of the companies sent solicitations to students that looked as if they had come from the federal government, according to the attorney general's office. 
 Others advertised interest rates not available to most borrowers. Some offered prizes and ran contests to lure student borrowers. 
 ''These settlements are a major step forward in cleaning up an industry where false and misleading advertising practices have been all too rampant,'' Mr. Cuomo said.
 He added, ''It is unconscionable for lenders to entice students into loans that are not best for them.''
 Representatives of EduCap, Nelnet and GMAC Bank denied any wrongdoing but each said they welcomed the new code. 
 Raza Khan, president and co-founder of My Rich Uncle, said that the company was not part of the investigation but ''wholeheartedly supported the code of conduct and voluntarily agreed to abide by it.'' 
 Mr. Khan added, ''This agreement did not require us to change how we market.''
 The code of conduct, which Mr. Cuomo said he hoped other lenders would adopt, would ban using logos and return addresses that resemble those used by the federal government; sending false checks or rebate offers; offering free iPods or other gifts to lure borrowers; making misleading statements about loan terms and benefits, and providing examples of loan costs that are available to a small percentage of borrowers.
 Democratic lawmakers in Washington have raised concerns about lenders' marketing practices. In a statement on Tuesday, George Miller, the California Democrat who is chairman of the House education committee, said, ''I am glad that attorney general Cuomo has continued to diligently pursue lenders involved with shady marketing schemes.''
 In developing the code and persuading lenders to adopt it, Mr. Cuomo's office is pursuing a similar strategy to one followed in addressing questionable ties between college financial aid offices and student loan companies uncovered in investigations last year. Benjamin Lawsky, special assistant to the attorney general, said the office's investigation was continuing and expanding to include other potential conflicts of interest on college campuses.
 ''Numerous vendors do millions of dollars of business on college campuses, and we have found that they often pay to play,'' Mr. Lawsky said. ''The question then becomes, are students getting the best deals or, as we found in the student loan industry, are universities entering into financial arrangements that benefit them at the expense of students?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); ETHICS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SALES REBATES (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%)

COMPANY: NELNET INC (91%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (84%)

TICKER: NNI (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (91%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (91%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



250 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: Inventories Grow Faster As Sales Fall

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Inventories at wholesalers increased in July twice as fast as forecast, led by gains in stockpiles of automobiles, machinery and petroleum as sales fell. 
 The gain in the value of stockpiles was 1.4 percent and followed a revised increase of 0.9 percent in June, the Commerce Department said on Tuesday. 
 ''While we remain watchful of an unwanted backup in stocks, thus far there is little evidence to suggest a burgeoning problem,'' said Michelle Girard, a senior economist at RBS Greenwich Capital in Greenwich, Conn.
 Another report showed fewer Americans than forecast signed contracts to buy previously owned homes in July. That report, the index of pending home resales compiled by the National Association of Realtors, showed a 3.2 percent decline after a revised 5.8 percent gain in June. The decline is the fourth this year as tighter credit conditions keep would-be buyers from taking advantage of lower prices.
 Economists had forecast wholesale inventories would rise 0.7 percent, according to the median of 35 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The increase in wholesale stockpiles was led by a 2.8 percent rise in the value of petroleum products, a 2.3 percent gain in automobiles and a 2.7 percent jump in machinery, the biggest since December 1997.
 Professional equipment, like computers, and clothing were the only categories that had a decline in stockpiles.
 Inventories of durable goods increased 1.6 percent, the most since April 2006, and those of nondurable products advanced 1.1 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (79%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (79%); FACTORY ORDERS (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); PROPERTY PURCHASE AGREEMENTS (78%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (74%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (57%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



251 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Thrift Shops Thriving, but Running Low on Stock

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
While the nation's best-known retail chains are pulling out all the stops to lure shoppers and bolster their abysmal sales, their customers are defecting to an unlikely rival: the local thrift shop.
The must-have item for fall, it turns out, is someone else's castoff.
That may sound like a boon for the thrift stores, and in some ways it is. Yet the same economic woes that are sending buyers their way are causing donors to hand over fewer items, so that many stores are running low on inventory. 
The Salvation Army, which operates 1,300 thrift shops in the United States, said the tough economy had led consumers to hold onto their old clothes longer and to use Web sites like eBay and Craigslist to make money from unwanted items, suppressing the usual flow of donations.
Figures from the Salvation Army show that sales have spiked 5 to 15 percent at stores around the country in recent months, compared with the same period a year earlier, yet donations are down 10 to 25 percent.
Goodwill Industries International, which operates 2,200 thrift stores, said that for the first six months of 2008, sales at thrift stores open at least a year, known as same-store sales, were up more than 6 percent. Same-store sales in New York and New Jersey were up 5 percent, while donations were down 5 to 10 percent.
''It's expensive out there,'' said Jamil Cruz, 38, a maintenance worker in Manhattan who was thumbing recently through a rack of shorts at a Salvation Army store in Midtown Manhattan. ''You've got to have two jobs to make it.''
Jerry Balara, general supervisor of the Salvation Army's adult rehabilitation center in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., where sales were up 12 percent this year, said that some consumers had told him: ''I just can't afford even Wal-Mart or Kmart or discount stores right now.''
Many thrift stores, however, may soon be in need of fresh donations.
''At this rate we're probably going to run out of product before Christmas gets here,'' said James Brickson, corps administrator and pastor for the Salvation Army's rehabilitation center in Albert Lea, Minn., where sales this year were up about 6 percent and the number of first-time users of the Salvation Army's social services was up 12 percent. Donations, on the other hand, were down about 50 percent from last year.
George Hood, national community relations and development secretary for the Salvation Army, said the weak economy is ''forcing people to re-evaluate'' what they are willing to donate. ''Young women are looking in their closet and saying, 'You know, I'm going to wear that a little longer instead of giving it away,' '' he said.
That means the Salvation Army is competing with other groups for a shrinking pool of quality castoffs.
''We're all kind of scrambling for the same shirt and the same pair of pants,'' said Timothy Best, administrator for the Salvation Army adult rehabilitation center in South Bend, Ind., where sales this year were up 12 percent and donations were down 8 to 15 percent.
To make matters worse, gas prices have drastically increased the stores' operating costs. Some thrift shops have had to cut back on trips to pick up clothing donations.
''Even if they had 20 bags,'' said Mr. Balara, who oversees seven thrift stores in Pennsylvania, ''we just can't afford to go get them right now.''
David Wilson, the administrator of the Salvation Army's adult rehabilitation center in Manhattan and Queens, said his trucks used to drive to donors' homes to pick up three or four bags of clothing, but that these days ''we try to get over 10 bags of clothing to go to a house to make it worth it.'' He has also had to increase the fee for delivering furniture to customer's homes by $10, to $50 in Manhattan and $60 in Queens.
Aldo Accinelli, business administrator for the Salvation Army's Anaheim adult rehabilitation center in Orange County, Calif., said that sales in the 12 thrift stores he oversees were up about 10 percent, but that expenses were up 20 percent.
''Diesel alone is up two times as much as last year,'' he said. For the last couple of years it has cost Mr. Accinelli about $14,000 a month to operate his 22-truck fleet. Now it costs $28,000 to $30,000 a month.
In response to the slowdown in donations and the growing need for social services, the Salvation Army is introducing the sort of national advertising and marketing campaign usually ordered up by department stores and specialty retailers.
Salvation Army officials believe that if more Americans were reminded that the money generated by thrift stores goes toward drug and alcohol rehabilitation programs, they would be more likely to make donations. The campaign will include fliers, signs, new logos on trucks and even some radio and television advertisements.
''We're going to be more aggressive about marketing,'' Mr. Hood said. ''Instead of operating like a charity, we now know we have to operate like a real retailer.''
The Salvation Army said its average thrift-store shopper had traditionally been upper or middle class. Many came to hunt for designer clothing at rock-bottom prices.
''I found once a pair of Chanel black leather shoes,'' said Shannon Gallagher, a marketing manager for Simon & Schuster, as she shopped for maternity clothes at a Salvation Army thrift store in Midtown. ''They were like $12.''
But thrift store operators say the demographics are changing.
People who once shopped daily or multiple times a week for vintage treasures are making fewer trips. For some, thrift-store shopping is no longer a hobby but a necessity. Then there are those who have stopped buying entirely or are buying only when there are promotions, leading a few thrift stores to experience a dip in sales this year.
Mr. Brickson, of Minnesota, said a longtime donor to his store had recently showed up in tears.
''She had given so much to the Salvation Army over the years,'' he said. ''She never thought she was going to be a recipient of the services.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shannon Gallagher shopping for maternity clothes at a Salvation Army store in Midtown Manhattan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (Pg. C1)
Edwin Torres, left, and Jamil Cruz at a Salvation Army store in Midtown Manhattan. ''It's expensive out there,'' Mr. Cruz says.(PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Greg Arbogast, left, and Ryan Cleary loading up a coffee table from a Salvation Army store in South Bend, Ind. Thrift stores say they are competing for a shrinking pool of quality castoffs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAYMOND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: USED MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CHARITABLE GIVING (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); STATISTICS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: THE SALVATION ARMY (94%); GOODWILL INDUSTRIES INTERNATIONAL (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



252 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn Arena Builder Plans to Break Ground In December After Delay

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The developer Bruce C. Ratner has told state and city officials that he plans to break ground in December on his long-delayed $4 billion Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn, which will feature thousands of apartments and offices in 16 towers built around a glamorous basketball arena for the Nets.
 But it is unclear whether Mr. Ratner will be able to meet his own deadline to start one of the most ambitious projects in Brooklyn in decades, given the softening economy, the crisis in the debt markets, rising costs and a persistent group of opponents who have filed one lawsuit after another. 
 The developer has been rushing to have a November closing on his deal with state officials and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which owns a section of the 22 acres he plans to use for the project.
 Mr. Ratner, who is the chairman of Forest City Ratner; his bankers at Goldman Sachs; and David Stern, commissioner of the National Basketball Association, also met last week with bond-rating agencies to discuss the proposed financing for the $950 million arena, which was designed by Frank Gehry. (Forest City Ratner was the development partner for the new Manhattan headquarters of The New York Times Company.)
 But that financing plan for the arena, known as Barclays Center, is dependent on a favorable ruling by the Treasury Department in the coming weeks that would allow Mr. Ratner to use tax-exempt bonds and a final victory over court challenges. If he is barred from using tax-exempt bonds, his costs will increase substantially for what would already be the most expensive arena in the world.
 Either way, bankers and real estate executives say it will be difficult to sell bonds for an arena at a time when New York's real estate boom has quieted and investors and lenders are wary of backing large-scale projects.
 Indeed, Mr. Ratner has asked government officials recently for as much as $100 million in additional cash for the project, citing rising costs and problems in the bond markets, according to two officials who would speak only on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the negotiations. The city and the state have already agreed to provide $300 million in subsidies and tens of millions in tax breaks.
 Still, in a conference call with stock analysts on Tuesday, Charles Ratner, the chief executive of Mr. Ratner's parent company, Forest City Enterprises, said that Atlantic Yards was the biggest project in their development pipeline and that he was confident that ''we can make it happen'' by the end of the year.
 Joseph DePlasco, a spokesman for Bruce Ratner, said his company had drawn up documents for a tax-exempt bond offering that would enable them to move quickly after the Treasury Department issued its ruling. But, he said, Forest City and Goldman Sachs were also confident that they could obtain taxable financing, if needed. 
 ''While it is a tough market, we have secured more than $1.5 billion in construction loans this year so far,'' Mr. DePlasco said. ''And this is the most exciting project in the country and the most exciting arena in the world.''
 One reason Mr. Ratner may be forging ahead is his deal with Barclays Bank, which officials say provides him with $20 million a year for naming the arena after it. The naming rights contract requires Forest City to close on the land and the financing by the end of November. 
 Mr. DePlasco declined to discuss the company's arrangement with Barclays.
 But opponents, who object to the size of the project, its impact on the surrounding neighborhood and the use of eminent domain by the state, said that Mr. Ratner would fall short of his goal.
 ''There's no way they'll get control of the land they need, get the financing, end the litigation and break ground by December,'' said Daniel Goldstein, a spokesman for Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn, the project's primary opponent. Andrew DeSouza, a spokesman for the Treasury Department, declined to comment on whether a decision concerning tax-exempt financing for stadiums and arenas was imminent. The Internal Revenue Service issued proposed regulations in 2006 that would make it more difficult, if not impossible, for tax-exempt bonds to be used for private sports teams.
 The Treasury Department has been soliciting comments ever since. Both the city and the state have lobbied on behalf of the Atlantic Yards project, as well as for the Yankees and the Mets, which are already building stadiums with tax-exempt bonds.
 It is unlikely that Mr. Ratner will be able to get more cash from the city or the state, but he is also negotiating for tax subsidies to ensure that at least 30 percent of the 6,000 apartments in the complex would be affordable for low- and moderate-income families. Talks are also continuing with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 15, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption with an article in some editions on Wednesday about potential hurdles to plans by the developer Bruce C. Ratner to break ground in December on his $4 billion Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn misstated the name of the railyards that the development will be built over, in part. They are the Vanderbilt Yards, not the Atlantic Yards. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bruce C. Ratner in Brooklyn at the Atlantic Yards, which he has hopes to transform.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); CITIES (78%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); BASKETBALL (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (73%); BOND ISSUES (72%); LITIGATION (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (63%); EXECUTIVES (63%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (68%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); FOREST CITY ENTERPRISES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (58%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (56%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (68%); GS (NYSE) (57%); FCEB (NYSE) (56%); FCEA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (68%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (68%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (56%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (56%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (56%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



253 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Weighing Euro, Airbus Says Cost-Cutting Means Less Production in Europe

BYLINE: By CAROLINE BROTHERS

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Airbus insisted Tuesday that it would not cut jobs in Europe, even as it made plans to find additional savings by shifting more production outside of the Continent.
 Since aircraft are priced in dollars, Airbus is eager to reduce its exposure to the euro. 
 Under a plan announced in July by its parent company, European Aeronautic Defense and Space, Airbus wants to reduce its costs by an additional 650 million euros, or $914 million, in 2011 and 2012. The plan, dubbed Power8 Plus, is intended to save a total of a billion euros throughout EADS during those two years.
 On Tuesday, Airbus executives met with worker representatives to outline the saving plans. The executives ruled out more layoffs on top of the 10,000 jobs set to disappear under a broad overhaul already under way.
 ''It is not planned to have any job losses; it is more externalization and internationalization,'' said a union official present at the talks, which lasted most of Tuesday. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the delicate nature of the talks.
 Instead of cutting more jobs, savings this time will derive from greater direct purchases of airplane components from outside the euro zone.
 Airbus will also encourage its suppliers to obtain parts from outside Europe, said Justin Dubon, an Airbus spokesman in Toulouse, France. Hindustan Aeronautics in India, for instance, already produces half of the aircraft doors for the A320 family of planes.
 Aircraft assembly will also increasingly be shifted outside of the region, Airbus said.
 Airbus is completing an assembly plant for some of its A320 passenger aircraft in China. It also plans to assemble some A330 cargo planes in Mobile, Ala., if it wins a contract to supply the Air Force with refueling tankers based on that aircraft.
 ''Markets and competition remain challenging,'' the Airbus chief executive, Thomas O. Enders, said Tuesday, adding that improving its cost base and its efficiency were necessary to safeguard the long-term competitiveness of the company.
 The EADS chief executive, Louis Gallois, said in July that sending some work to Tunisia from Airbus factories in Meault and Saint-Nazaire, France, was one way to lower expenses.
 The union official said that plans to establish a subsidiary producing cockpit parts in Tunisia, to be financed jointly by EADS and Groupe Latecoere, a subcontractor, were advancing, but that employees were concerned about the loss of skilled jobs to companies with which they had never worked before.
 ''We fear that by sending parts of the workload to the four corners of the earth, the development of the A350 will face new delays like the Dreamliner,'' the union official said, referring to the plane under development at Boeing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers converting a plane from passenger use to cargo at a plant operated by the European Aeronautic Defense and Space in Dresden, Germany.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NORBERT MILLAUER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (79%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); CONTRACT AWARDS (77%); AIR FORCES (77%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (94%); AIRBUS SAS (92%); LATECOERE SA (84%); BOEING CO (58%)

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (94%); EAD (MCE) (94%); LAT (PAR) (84%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: LOUIS GALLOIS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%); MOBILE, AL, USA (53%) MIDI-PYRENEES, FRANCE (79%); BRETAGNE, FRANCE (78%); ALABAMA, USA (71%) EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (92%); TUNISIA (86%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); INDIA (78%); CHINA (73%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



254 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Federal Mortgage Success Stories

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
The government's takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the nation's largest mortgage finance companies, is training a spotlight on a part of American financial system that rarely gets much attention: the vast network of federal agencies and quasi-governmental lenders that helps keep credit flowing through the economy.
 So far, these government-linked lenders -- including other, smaller Maes and Macs -- have come through the credit crisis largely unscathed. Some of them, in fact, are even prospering. 
 The Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, or Farmer Mac, for example, has been on a roll lately. Its shares have soared 153 percent this year, and its profit is up. Chartered by the federal government in 1988, Farmer Mac buys mortgages on farmland from agricultural lenders and then sells instruments backed by those loans. The company is thriving because the price of crops -- and farmland -- has been rising. 
 The Government National Mortgage Association, or Ginnie Mae, meantime, has also come through the last year without the credit problems that have brought Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to their knees. Fully owned by the federal government, Ginnie Mae provides guarantees on mortgage-backed securities backed by federally insured or guaranteed loans. Earlier this year, Ginnie Mae's sales of new government-guaranteed debt soared to the highest point since 2003, as the market for other mortgage-linked debt collapsed.
 Still, some worry that the rapid growth of other government-sponsored enterprises, most prominently the 12 Federal Home Loan Banks, eventually might create headaches for the financial industry and American taxpayers.
 The Federal Home Loan Banks, which like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac help finance housing, are like the troubled mortgage giants in at least one crucial respect: size. The F.H.L.B. system is enormous -- and getting bigger. Over the last year alone, the combined value of these institutions' balance sheets has ballooned by 30 percent. 
 And, like, Fannie and Freddie, the 12 banks borrow large amounts of money in the bond markets. Their debt outstanding totals about $1.3 trillion. 
 Over the last year or so, the Federal Home Loan Bank System, which is run as a cooperative by the nation's banks, rather than as a public company, has been a crucial source of funding for lenders. The home loan banks borrow money in the capital markets, securing low rates because of their implied backing by the federal government, and then lend that money to banks. That has been crucial during the current crisis as traditional sources of funding have dried up. 
 ''It became the lifeline to liquidity for all of us. There is no doubt about it,'' said Ronald E. Hermance Jr., the chief executive of Hudson City Savings Bank and a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. ''It is what kept the system alive.''
 Eleven of the 12 home loan banks have been profitable lately, although one, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago, recently lost money when some of its hedges on mortgage investments went awry. 
 As part of the takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the Treasury said it would extend secured, short-term funding to the home loan banks. James B. Lockhart, director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, said on Sunday that the home loan bank system was ''very unlikely'' to need to use that facility. 
 But the home loan banks, which were created during the Depression amid a wave of bank failures, have lent billions of dollars to banks and thrifts that are themselves exposed to troubled home loans. 
 Washington Mutual, the nation's largest savings and loan, nearly doubled its borrowing from the Federal Home Loan Bank System over the last year, to $47.7 billion, according to government filings. The Wachovia Corporation has also ramped up its borrowing, in part because of its acquisition of Golden West, a big California lender. In 2007, before it was sold to Bank of America, the Countrywide Financial Corporation took out more than $53.2 billion as it fought to stay afloat.
 Collectively, the home loan banks have never reported a loss in the system's 76-year history. Many experts say the risk that lenders will fail to pay back the home loan banks is small, particularly because the loans are secured by collateral in the form of high-quality mortgages and other protections. 
 Still, the explosive growth of the system concerns some analysts, who worry that the loan banks enable overly aggressive lenders to continue to make loans. 
 ''The accusation is that they are the ones that continue to provide alcohol to the alcoholic borrower that just can't get off the sauce,'' said Gary Townsend, a manager of a hedge fund oriented toward the financial sector who spent seven years as the chief examiner of the F.H.L.B. system. ''They continue to entice the borrower to borrow more and more.''
 The costs, if any, ultimately might be borne by the Federal Insurance Deposit Corporation and, by extension, taxpayers. When a lender fails, the home loan banks are repaid before the F.D.I.C., which guarantees checking and savings accounts. 
 ''Any financial institution that is involved in the housing market could be in risk if home prices continue to plunge and the housing crisis doesn't start to abate,'' said Jaret Seiberg, a banking policy analyst at the Stanford Group in Washington. Even so, the risks to the loan banks appears small. 
 ''Of all the entities involved in the market, the Home Loan Bank System is pretty protected,'' Mr. Seiberg said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ronald E. Hermance Jr., chief executive of Hudson City Savings Bank in New Jersey, said financing from the Federal Home Loan Banks has provided a ''lifeline to liquidity.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); BOND MARKETS (65%); BONDS (65%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL MORTGAGE CORP (84%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK OF NEW YORK (81%); HUDSON CITY BANCORP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (59%); FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL MORTGAGE CORP (57%)

TICKER: AGM (NYSE) (84%); HCBK (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (81%); SIC6019 CENTRAL RESERVE DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS, NEC (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (50%)

PERSON: RONALD E HERMANCE JR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



255 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Met Chooses Tapestries Curator to Lead Museum

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
Ending months of fervid speculation, the Metropolitan Museum of Art reached into its ranks on Tuesday and chose Thomas P. Campbell, a 46-year-old British-born tapestries curator, to succeed Philippe de Montebello as director and chief executive. 
 The appointment, effective Jan. 1, was approved in an afternoon vote of the museum's board of trustees after a suspenseful eight-month search that began after Mr. Montebello, 72, announced plans to retire after 31 years in the post. 
 Given the profile of the Met and Mr. de Montebello, a patrician presence who presided over scores of ambitious exhibitions and acquisitions, it was the most closely watched search ever in the museum world. The Met's committee worked so secretively that some trustees and most of the museum's curators were still unaware on Monday that Mr. Campbell had emerged as the top candidate. 
 In selecting him, the Met seems to have opted for intellectual heft as well as continuity. Educated at Oxford and the Courtauld Institute of Art in London, Mr. Campbell arrived at the museum in 1995 and built his reputation through much-praised catalogs that were both scholarly and sumptuous, and shows involving complex logistics and diplomacy. His exhibition ''Tapestry in the Renaissance: Art and Magnificence'' became the sleeper hit of 2002, attracting some 215,000 visitors -- more than twice what the museum had projected -- with works that had never been seen before in America. 
 James R. Houghton, the chairman of the Met, said, ''Clearly we wanted a scholar and art historian who is respected in his field, has a keen intellect and can be decisive.'' 
 In capturing the post, Mr. Campbell is said to have edged out finalists including Max Hollein, the popular director of the Stadel Art Institute of Frankfurt, and two Met curators who currently outrank him: Ian Wardropper, 57, the head of Mr. Campbell's department, European sculpture and decorative arts; and Gary Tinterow, 54, the curator in charge of 19th-century, modern and contemporary art.
 Asked whether he expected any ruffled feathers as a result of Mr. Campbell's appointment, Mr. Houghton said: ''Probably. This is a hell of a job.''
 Yet when Mr. Campbell's name surfaced recently, many of the Met's seasoned curators started rooting for him. Respected among his peers as a scholar, he also happens to be well liked. 
 Although he has not run a big department, his managerial heft was tested when, shortly after his arrival, he became the supervising curator of the Antonio Ratti Textile Center, which houses the Met's encyclopedic collection of 36,000 textiles. 
 Beyond the challenge of carving out his own identity after the de Montebello years, Mr. Campbell faces the task of maintaining the quality of the museum's programming and covering its vast operating expenses in the face of eroding corporate support. 
 In a shaky economy, he will have to be an adroit fund-raiser and social butterfly, courting wealthy donors and collectors who could help pay for crucial acquisitions and eventually bequeath collections to the museum. (In a reflection of those pressures, the search committee even went so far as to vet the finalists' spouses.)
 The ninth director in the Met's 138-year history, Mr. Campbell confronts a world that has radically changed in the three decades since Mr. de Montebello took the job. 
 The museum's mandate and its competition are more global than ever, with new art institutions with innovative agendas sprouting up in Europe, Asia and unexpected corners like the mega-wealthy United Arab Emirates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); HISTORY (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); APPROVALS (72%); TEXTILES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



256 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths COLLINS, JOHN JOSEPH

 BODY:
 COLLINS--John Joseph, formerly of Roslyn Harbor, NY, and Highland Beach, Fl, passed away Mars, PA, September 6, 2008, age 86. Loving husband of the late Phyllis Reed Collins & brother of the late Jean A. Robinson. Beloved father of Priscilla Collins (Dr. Kevin Robert) O'Hara of Wexford, PA, & Cynthia Collins Peters of Slingerlands, NY. Grand ''Furrie'' to Catherine, Kimberly, & Marguerite O'Hara and Carolyn Peters. Uncle Jack to Jill Anne, Jeffrey, and James Robinson. Graduated from the US Naval Academy (1946). Jack worked for NY Telephone Co. for 38 years rising to Exec. Vice Pres., Pres. of NY Building Congress, Chairman of Council of Business & Labor for economic development of NY, VP of Cushfield and Wakefield Corp, Mayor of Roslyn Harbor, NY. Member of N. Hempstead CC & Vestry of Trinity Episcopal Church. Arrangements by Simons Funeral Home. simonsfuneralhome.com 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (80%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



257 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: North Korea's Leader Is Seriously Ill, U.S. Intelligence Officials Say

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI and CHOE SANG-HUN; Mark Mazzetti reported from Washington, and Choe Sang-hun from Seoul, South Korea. David E. Sanger and Mark Landler contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Kim Jong-il, North Korea's leader, is seriously ill and is likely to have suffered a stroke weeks ago, American officials said Tuesday, raising the prospect of a chaotic power struggle in nuclear-armed North Korea. 
 Intelligence officials in Washington said that the exact status of Mr. Kim's health was unclear, but that on Tuesday he failed to attend a celebration of the 60th anniversary of the founding of North Korea and that American intelligence agencies believed that he was now under the care of doctors in Pyongyang, North Korea's capital. 
 On Wednesday, Song Il-ho, a senior North Korean diplomat, denied news reports suggesting Mr. Kim was ill. ''We see such reports as not only worthless, but rather as a conspiracy plot,'' the Kyodo news agency quoted Mr. Song as saying.
 Later, the country's No. 2 leader, Kim Yong-nam, said there was ''no problem'' with Kim Jong-il, Kyodo reported. 
 Kim Jong-il's health is a topic of intense interest among governments and security experts, especially because Western officials are unclear about who would succeed the man known as the ''Dear Leader.'' 
 North Korea is one of the world's most isolated and unpredictable states, and a messy transfer of power would focus new attention on the security of its nuclear weapons arsenal. 
 Mr. Kim had not missed the 10 past military parades staged for major anniversaries, during which columns of armored vehicles and rocket launchers rumbled through Pyongyang's main plaza and legions of goose-stepping soldiers saluted him. 
 But on Tuesday, there was only a parade by militia groups in charge of civil defense, and Mr. Kim did not attend. 
 An American intelligence official, who, like others interviewed for this article, spoke on condition of anonymity because assessments about Mr. Kim's health are classified, said Tuesday that it did not appear that Mr. Kim's death was imminent. The official said there were no clear indications the North was stepping up preparations for a transfer of authority. The official would not say whether American intelligence agencies expected Mr. Kim to fully recover.
 The topic of Mr. Kim's health came up in discussions between the chief American negotiator on North Korean nuclear issues, Christopher R. Hill, and Chinese officials during a recent trip by Mr. Hill to China, said a Bush administration official. But despite the closer contacts between China and North Korea, the official said, Mr. Hill did not come away with a clear sense of Mr. Kim's condition, or what would happen in the event of his death.
 Earlier this year, the North had agreed to abandon its nuclear weapons programs in return for economic and political rewards from the United States and its allies, a major diplomatic victory for the Bush administration. 
 But late last month the North Korean government reversed course. Angry that Washington had not removed it from a terrorism list, it said it had stopped disabling its main nuclear complex.
 It is now unclear whether Mr. Kim ordered the reversal or whether other North Korean officials were making decisions while he was incapacitated. 
 Since the founding of North Korea in 1948 under Soviet guardianship, it has had only two leaders: Kim Il-sung and, after his death in 1994, his son, Kim Jong-il. Unlike his father, Mr. Kim has not publicly groomed any of his three sons to eventually take power, said Nicholas Eberstadt, a North Korea expert at the American Enterprise Institute. There are doubts about the abilities of all three sons, and American officials tend to gravitate toward theories that a military committee might take over the country. 
 Underlying that guesswork are questions about who within the military hierarchy would control the country's small arsenal of nuclear weapons. 
 ''There are a lot of people who will give you a series of assumptions about what happens to nuclear control if there is a leadership change,'' one senior administration official with access to intelligence on North Korea said Tuesday. ''To put it charitably, they are guessing.''
 South Korea's largest newspaper, Chosun Ilbo, reported Tuesday that Mr. Kim collapsed Aug. 22, citing an unidentified South Korean diplomat in Beijing. 
 The North's state-run media have not reported any public appearance by Mr. Kim since mid-August, and speculation was already swirling that he might be in poor health. According to South Korea's intelligence service, Mr. Kim has chronic heart disease and diabetes. He is believed to be in his mid-60s.
 Among scholars who examine every broadcast and speech from North Korea the way Kremlinologists once examined the Soviet Union, there has been particular focus on the talk given on Monday by Kim Yong-nam, considered the second-ranking official in the country.
 According to officials in Washington who read a translation of the speech, Mr. Kim appeared at times to refer to the country's leader in the past tense, saying at one point, ''Comrade Kim Jong-il's seasoned leadership served as a decisive function that brought about the morning light of a powerful Socialist state and unfolded an era of new prosperity of military-first Korea.''
 But Kim Jong-il was also referred to in the present tense, including one tribute that said he ''is a truly peerless patriot.''
 North Korea experts in Seoul cautioned that Mr. Kim had often disappeared from public view for extended periods.
 ''The nuclear talks are in a stalemate,'' said Kim Keun-sik, a North Korea expert at Kyungnam University in South Korea. ''Tensions with the United States are deepening. Kim knew that the world was watching whether he would show up today. For him, this may be a perfect chance to bring world attention to him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: North Korea celebrated the 60th anniversary of the founding of the country with a parade in Pyongyang, the capital, on Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KYODO, VIA REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); PARADES & MARCHES (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); INTERVIEWS (78%); STROKES (78%); CONSPIRACY (73%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (66%); DISARMAMENT (64%); ARMED FORCES (64%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



258 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Extra Insurance Can Protect Those Diamonds and Pearls

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
ASK almost anyone about insurance on jewelry and you hear, ''Oh, it's covered by my home insurance policy.''
 Not exactly. 
 True, nearly every home insurance policy in America comes with a provision that pays for stolen jewelry. But that provision is very small. Many policies pay up to $2,500 for a stolen item, regardless of how expensive it may be. Some pay as little as $1,000, and a few provide coverage of up to $5,000.
 People often forget about inflation when they think about the value of jewelry. The price they paid sticks in their mind. But almost every year, the cost of that same piece of jewelry rises, so the value of even a few items could be higher than the minimal coverage. The sharp rise in gold and silver prices lately has increased the likelihood that replacing jewelry would cost more than expected. 
 The standard home insurance policy may cover the full value of jewelry that is destroyed in a fire or an explosion or in the collapse of a house. But not much jewelry is lost in those ways. The real problems are crime and just plain losing things. Theresa Lawless, who oversees jewelry coverage at the Fireman's Fund Insurance Company near San Francisco, estimates that 85 percent of insurance company payments related to jewelry are for theft and for what the insurers call ''mysterious loss.''
 All home insurance companies sell extra coverage that will pay to replace prized jewelry or, in some cases, pay the full value of the item in cash. But few people buy the coverage.
 At the Allstate Insurance Company, Jeff Moree, the director of specialty property lines, estimates that only 7 to 8 percent of the company's more than 7.4 million home insurance policyholders buy the additional coverage, which is often referred to as ''scheduled personal property'' or, in insurance shorthand, as a rider or floater. Most of them probably ''just assume they've got the coverage in their homeowner's policy,'' said Jeanne M. Salvatore, senior vice president for public affairs at the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York. 
 Many think they will never need the coverage. And others feel that compiling a list of jewelry -- and, often, having to document its value, sometimes with an appraisal -- is too much of a bother.
 Charlotte Edmonston, managing director for Arthur J. Gallagher & Company, a large insurance broker with headquarters near Chicago, said that middle- and upper-middle-class homeowners are perhaps the most likely to buy special coverage. 
 ''If a guy earning $80,000 or $90,000 buys his wife a pair of earrings for $12,000 and she loses them, it's a big deal,'' Ms. Edmonston said. ''So they will most likely buy the insurance. I find my highest-income clients only buy insurance for their most expensive items. They can afford a loss.''
 In pure dollar terms, the special coverage often does not seem expensive. Mario Morales, director of corporate underwriting at MetLife Auto & Home insurance, says jewelry insurance typically costs $10 to $15 per $1,000 of coverage. At that rate, insurance on $5,000 worth of jewelry can cost as little as $50 a year; for baubles valued at $100,000, the cost, at the lowest rate, would be $1,000. Not a staggering amount, some might say. But you would pay about the same rate for a much broader policy that covered just about everything that could possibly go wrong with a house.
 Moreover, the rates are much higher -- $25 per $1,000 and more -- in New York and in other big cities where there is lots of jewelry and lots of losses. 
 Insurers say people often lose sight of the value of jewelry as they add pieces over the years. ''They go through life making purchases and don't look back in the rear-view mirror and realize what they've acquired over 10, 15, 20 years,'' Mr. Moree of Allstate said. ''Then there's a break-in and they discover they don't have the appropriate coverage.''
 Some people buy the special coverage but fail to increase it annually to keep up with inflation. They end up in trouble, only able to collect what their bracelets and rings were worth years earlier. 
 Rachel Dean, who lives on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and is a recruiter in the film and television business, never had any misconceptions about insurance coverage and jewelry. When she was a teenager, her mother's jewelry was stolen, and the standard home insurance did not come close to covering the loss, she said.
 So when Ms. Dean became engaged and got a diamond ring, she bought the special coverage from Allstate. Over the years she has added other pieces to her collection. She now pays about $300 a year for the coverage. Until a few weeks ago, she never needed it. Recently, while Ms. Dean was walking in Central Park with her daughters, her Longines watch with a diamond bezel slipped off her wrist. She called Allstate, she said, and without much back and forth they sent her a check for nearly $2,000.
 ''I was very unhappy when I lost my watch,'' Ms. Dean said. ''But I was relieved to know that I had a safety net.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE POLICIES (92%); INSURANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (87%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); INLAND MARINE INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (78%); FINE JEWELRY (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); GOLD MARKETS (69%); SILVER MARKETS (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%)

COMPANY: FIREMAN'S FUND INSURANCE CO (68%); ALLSTATE INSURANCE CO (66%); ARTHUR J GALLAGHER & CO (61%)

TICKER: AJG (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (66%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



259 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Convention Code Words Hint of Race, Paterson Says

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson said on Tuesday that he detected ''overtones of potential racial coding'' in the presidential campaign, drawing a sharp retort from the campaign of Senator John McCain, the Republican candidate. 
 At a breakfast forum in New York City, Mr. Paterson, a Democrat and the fourth black governor in American history, was asked whether racism would harm the presidential bid of the Democratic candidate, Senator Barack Obama, who is the first black nominee of a major party. 
 Mr. Paterson replied that he thought enough voters were focused on issues like housing and unemployment to elect Mr. Obama regardless of his race.
 But he added, ''I think the Republican Party is too smart to call Barack Obama black in a sense that would be a negative. But you can take something about his life, which I noticed they did at the Republican convention -- a 'community organizer.' They kept saying it, they kept laughing, like, 'What does this mean?' ''
 Mr. Paterson did not quite accuse Mr. McCain of playing on racial fears to defeat Mr. Obama, and in a news conference later, he elaborated that ''for me to really think it is happening there would have to be a pattern -- and I don't see a pattern coming out of the Republican campaign in that regard.''
 But Mr. McCain's campaign quickly issued a news release accusing Mr. Paterson of launching ''accusations of racism,'' a topic that has surfaced before during this presidential race.
 At a campaign stop in Missouri in July, Mr. Obama paraphrased the Republican's argument against him by saying, ''You know, he's not patriotic enough. He's got a funny name. You know, he doesn't look like all those other presidents on those dollar bills.'' 
 At the time, Mr. McCain's manager, Rick Davis, charged that Mr. Obama had ''played the race card, and he played it from the bottom of the deck.''
 The campaign took a similar tack on Tuesday. A McCain spokesman, Peter Feldman, said in a statement that criticisms of Mr. Obama's work as a community organizer by Mr. McCain's running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, were within the bounds of respectable political debate.
 ''Governor Palin's remark about Barack Obama's work as a community organizer was in response to the Obama campaign's belittling of her executive experience,'' Mr. Feldman said. ''There is certainly a place for community activism, as demonstrated by Sarah Palin's own record of civic involvement.''
 Mr. Paterson, in his remarks on Tuesday, seemed to bristle at such attacks. Defining what a community organizer was, Mr. Paterson said: ''It means that an individual who could have gone to Wall Street and made a lot of money -- and then run for office because he can buy media time -- chose to go back and work in programs in neighborhoods where he thought he can make a difference and became an elected official based on his involvement right in his own community.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); HISTORY (57%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); SARAH PALIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



260 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Protecting Your Assets: Some Strategies

BYLINE: By DEBORAH L. JACOBS

 BODY:
UNCERTAINTY about future tax rates is complicating estate planning at a time when the economic downturn offers significant opportunities. 
 Most methods of saving estate taxes reduce a person's net worth through irrevocable lifetime transfers. Yet even the very wealthy are sometimes reluctant to take this step, because they worry that it will leave them short of money, said Lloyd Leva Plaine, a lawyer with Sutherland, the Washington-based firm. Market turbulence and changing political tides exacerbate those fears. 
 Even if you have no estate tax concerns, strong reasons remain for creating trusts and maintaining old ones, said Steve R. Akers, managing director at the Bessemer Trust Company in Dallas. They can safeguard your assets and provide for your care if you can no longer handle your affairs; they can also hold money for minors, prevent funds from being eroded by spendthrift family members and protect assets from former spouses or someone who wins a lawsuit against you. 
 Because of a quirk in the current law, the estate tax is scheduled for repeal at the end of 2009. Then, after a year with no estate tax, it would return at the unfavorable rates that applied in 2001, unless Congress enacts a new plan. For 2008, the exemption amount is $2 million a person and the rate is 45 percent; the exemption increases to $3.5 million in 2009 with the rate unchanged. 
 Neither presidential candidate wants the tax repealed, and each has offered a proposal for modifying it. Senator Barack Obama favors a system in which there would be no tax on the first $3.5 million worth of assets that each of us leaves behind, and a tax of 45 percent on everything above that amount -- in other words, continuing the 2009 model. Senator John McCain's proposal would allow $5 million to pass tax-free and would lower the tax rate to 15 percent. 
 Both political parties also support a proposed tax break for married couples. It would permit a surviving spouse to carry over any portion of the exempt amount that wasn't used by the deceased spouse. Couples would be exempt from estate tax if their combined assets were up to $7 million under the Obama plan or up to $10 million under the McCain version.
 Such a measure would require major legislation to make up for the revenue lost by lowering the tax rate or raising the exemption. Congress might, for example, curtail the use of other estate planning tools, said Dennis I. Belcher, a lawyer with McGuireWoods in Richmond, Va. The possibilities include stricter rules on the use of certain kinds of trusts and on family limited partnerships. 
 Lawmakers might also opt for the path of least resistance and keep extending the 2009 rates, one year at time, rather than making them permanent or tackling the bigger issues, Mr. Belcher said -- no matter who occupies the White House. 
 While it may be tempting to wait and see, Mr. Akers of Bessemer Trust said the current downturn offers estate planning opportunities. Here are some strategies to consider:
 CONVERT A TRADITIONAL IRA TO A ROTH This multipurpose strategy can eliminate the income tax that you or your heirs would have to pay when withdrawing the funds. You also avoid the requirement to take yearly minimum distributions beginning at age 70 1/2, which can leave more for your heirs if you don't use the money yourself. 
 Although you must pay tax on the amount being converted, a decline in account values makes conversion a potential bargain right now, said Barry C. Picker, an accountant and financial planner with Picker, Weinberg & Auerbach in Brooklyn. Assuming the investment springs back, that appreciation will escape income tax.
 If estate taxes might also be an issue, a Roth conversion offers an additional benefit. Money spent on income taxes reduces your net worth and leaves less that could be subject to estate taxes.
 The main catch is the income limits that apply until 2010. For now, you can do a conversion only if you are single or filing jointly and your adjusted gross income -- modified by adding back in foreign income, foreign-housing deductions and other items -- is below $100,000. Affluent retirees with no earned income and with tax-efficient investments might well qualify. A Roth conversion is a valuable, low-tech estate planning technique, often overlooked because many advisers are not fluent with the complexities or assume, sometimes mistakenly, that their clients will not qualify.
 MOVE INVESTMENTS THAT HAVE LOST VALUE You can give $12,000 worth of assets a year to as many recipients as you like without paying gift tax. Spouses can combine this annual exclusion to give $24,000 jointly to any person (or a trust for his or her benefit). If you want to give away more than that, you can either count your gift against the $1 million lifetime exemption -- the total of taxable gifts each person can make without incurring gift tax -- or, if you have used up the exemption, pay gift tax of 45 percent. 
 By transferring property now, when market values are low, you can pack more into these limits, Ms. Plaine said. For gift-tax purposes, you count the value of the asset at the time of the transfer. Any appreciation is not subject to estate or gift tax.
 TAKE ADVANTAGE OF LOW INTEREST RATES A couple of planning devices that can reduce or eliminate the gift tax are especially attractive because interest rates are still very low. 
 One is the grantor-retained annuity trust, or GRAT. You put assets into a short-term irrevocable trust, and you retain the right to receive annual income equal to the value of what you contribute plus interest at a rate set each month by the Internal Revenue Service (the Section 7520 rate). If you survive the trust term -- a condition for this tool to work -- any appreciation in the trust when the annual payments end passes to your family.
 If the property doesn't perform, ''you haven't really lost anything,'' said Carlyn S. McCaffrey, a lawyer with Weil, Gotshal & Manges in New York. The trust would satisfy its payout obligations by giving you back the assets.
 A popular alternative to a GRAT is for senior family members to sell assets to a trust that will benefit younger relatives and, in exchange, take back an interest-bearing promissory note. Assuming a sale at fair-market value and interest at the applicable federal rate, which is lower than the Section 7520 rate, there is no gift and therefore no gift tax. 
 With both of these strategies, your hope is that the value of the assets will increase by more than the interest rate by the time the trust or loan term ends. If that happens, you will have shifted all that excess to family members without having to pay gift tax.
 In today's uncertain environment, these tools have another attraction. Each creates an income stream -- an annuity from a GRAT or interest in connection with a loan -- for the person making the transfer. If you want to do estate planning but are afraid of running out of money, this can greatly add to your level of comfort.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM BOWER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ESTATE PLANNING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); POLITICS (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MARRIAGE (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); LITIGATION (71%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (50%)

COMPANY: BESSEMER TRUST CO NA (57%); MCGUIREWOODS LLP (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%); JOHN MCCAIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (78%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



261 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: For '08 Rivals, A Skein of Ties To Loan Giants

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; Kitty Bennett contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senators Barack Obama and John McCain each cite the mess at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as a consequence of the corrosive coziness of lobbyists and politicians that they promise to end. But each man and his party also have ties to the fallen giants that will complicate the next president's job of reshaping the mortgage finance companies that have been essential to the economy. 
 The Republican nominee, Mr. McCain of Arizona, has numerous close relationships with and contributions from current and former company lobbyists. 
 Mr. Obama, his Democratic rival from Illinois, is second among members of Congress in donations from the firms' employees and political action committees.
 Beyond the antilobbyist message, Mr. Obama also indicts the Bush administration and the Republicans who controlled Congress for a dozen years until 2007, including Mr. McCain. 
 He blames them for lax regulation that freed the companies to go deep into debt to buy the mortgages that crushed them as the housing crisis persisted. Yet his fellow Democrats in Congress have been well known as enablers of the two companies for years, protecting the firms' dueling responsibilities to support affordable housing as well as to maximize shareholder profits.
 For all their outrage now, neither Mr. Obama, with less than four years in the Senate, and Mr. McCain, after a quarter-century in the House and Senate, has a record of directly challenging the companies. Mr. Obama did warn publicly of a coming housing crisis in March 2007, five months before it erupted and the government first took action. 
 Several former company executives, as well as current and former Senate Republican staff members, said Mr. McCain seemed to avoid matters related to the financial industry after the last major financial crisis -- the savings and loan crisis of the late 1980s. He was one of the ''Keating Five'' senators investigated by the Senate, accused of interceding with federal regulators for the operator of a failing thrift. Mr. McCain received a rebuke. 
 More than Mr. Obama, Mr. McCain's circle of advisers and contributors includes current and former lobbyists or directors for the companies, although since July he has called for a ban on any lobbying by the two firms. 
 Among the companies' past advocates are Mr. McCain's campaign manager, Rick Davis, a longtime lobbyist; Mr. McCain's confidant and adviser Charlie Black, whose firm worked for Freddie Mac for several years ending in 2005, and the deputy campaign finance chairman, Wayne L. Berman, a vice president for Ogilvy Worldwide and a former Fannie Mae lobbyist.
 Mr. Davis previously was head of the Homeownership Alliance, a coalition of banks and housing industry interests led by Fannie and Freddie to stave off regulations. 
 The group was formed to counter another organization, FM Watch, an alliance of financial institutions and lobbying associations that wanted to even the playing field against Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, by challenging the implicit government guarantee that allowed the two firms to borrow funds at lower interest rates.
 Six members of the Republican lobbying firm Fierce Isakowitz & Blalock, all Fannie Mae lobbyists, have given Mr. McCain $13,250, records show. 
 The New York investor Geoffrey T. Boisi, a member of Freddie Mac's board, contributed more than $70,000 to Mr. McCain and Republican Party committees working for his election. Both he and Richard F. Hohlt, a Fannie Mae lobbyist, are among the McCain ''bundlers'' who have raised $100,000 to $250,000 from others, according to the campaign Web site.
 Both candidates' vetters for their vice presidential picks have links to Fannie. The former chairman, James Johnson, initially led Mr. Obama's search committee, but stepped aside after a controversy over favorable loan terms he received from another firm. Mr. McCain's vetter, Arthur B. Culvahouse Jr., was a past Fannie lobbyist.
 Mr. Obama's contributors include the Freddie Mac senior vice president Robert Y. Tsien and the directors William M. Lewis Jr., a banker at Lazard, and the Chicago businesswoman Brenda J. Gaines. He does not accept contributions from lobbyists, but Mr. Obama has been a favorite of Fannie Mae employees and their political action committee, according to an analysis by the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics.
 He was second only to the Senate Banking Committee chairman, Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat, in contributions from the two firms' employees and PACs since 1998, the analysis found, even though Mr. Obama has been in the Senate only since 2005. While the two firms have long been careful to hire from and contribute to both parties, generally Fannie Mae has favored Democrats and Freddie Mac the Republicans. 
 The center said he received $122,850, of which $101,150 was from Fannie Mae. 
 Until now, the companies were among the capital's lobbying powerhouses -- hiring former members of Congress, administration officials and top staff members as in-house lobbyists, contracting with outside lobbying firms, and sprinkling development projects and charitable contributions among Congressional districts. 
 With the Treasury's action over the weekend putting Fannie and Freddie in government conservatorships, the issue of what went wrong and how to fix them has intruded into the presidential campaign. 
 Mr. McCain wants to see the companies carved up and privatized, as commercial lenders have long sought. Phil Gramm, Mr. McCain's friend and longtime adviser, also took that position when he was the Senate Banking Committee chairman in the late 1990s to 2003. 
 Mr. Obama's comments signal a preference for the sort of public-private hybrid that Fannie and Freddie were, but with tighter controls. The firms, until now, were shareholder-owned and highly profitable, but chartered by the government and backed by an implicit government guarantee that is now explicit.
 Both senators issued statements supporting Treasury's seizure. And both increased the populist rhetoric in their competition to be seen as an agent of change. 
 Mr. McCain attributed the companies' troubles to ''cronyism, special interest lobbyists and executives making millions of dollars a year while things were going downhill.'' 
 Mr. Obama, in Ohio on Tuesday, said he would oppose any golden parachutes for the companies' ousted executives. ''Any action with respect to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac needs to put taxpayers first and can't under any circumstances bail out shareholders or senior management of those companies,'' he said. 
 He sent a letter late Monday to Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and James B. Lockhart, the companies' conservator, seeking clarification that the bailout would not provide ''a windfall'' to ousted executives. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: FANNIE AND FREDDIE AND MCCAIN AND OBAMA: Directors, officers and lobbyists for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have contributed to the 2008 campaigns of John McCain, and, in smaller amounts, Barack Obama, and their related committees. Here is a sample. (Source: Federal Election Commission) (pg.A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANK FAILURES (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (67%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



262 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 536 words

 BODY:
TIES TO LOBBYISTS For all their outrage over the coziness of politicians and lobbyists, Senators Barack Obama and John McCain have their own ties to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 EXPRESS CHECKOUT Retailers are experimenting with smaller grocery stores that emphasize prepared meals, fresh produce and grab-and-go drinks, hoping to lure shoppers who want to pick up a few items or a fast meal. [A1.]
 NO DEAL Wall Street was bracing for the possible collapse of Lehman Brothers after a report that talks with the Korea Development Bank ended without a deal for a capital injection. [A1.]
 PUMPING TO SLOW Despite concerns from some members, OPEC said it would reduce oil production levels in a bid to curtail a decline in oil prices. [C1.]
 SECOND-HAND SHOPPING The same economic woes that are sending consumers to thrift stores are causing donors to give fewer items, causing many stores to run low on inventory. [C1.]
 BARGAINING POSITION The machinists' union striking the Boeing Company wants it to add more workers to meet its production goals, a promise Boeing is leery of making. [C1.]
 STUDENT LENDERS SETTLE The New York attorney general said several student loan companies agreed to adopt broad reforms as part of a settlement over deceptive marketing practices. [C1.]
 Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo is investigating Arbitron's personal people meters, which critics say skew the ratings for minority broadcasting. [C3.]
 GENDER DEBATE The European Parliament voted to scold advertisers for ''sexual stereotyping,'' a measure that may provoke debate about gender messages in ad campaigns. Advertising. [C2.]
 ANTITRUST CHALLENGE The Justice Department hired a veteran antitrust lawyer to assess a deal between Google and Yahoo, an indication that it might be planning a legal challenge. [C3.]
 JOB CUTS AT RENAULT The French automaker Renault said it would cut 6,000 jobs, prompting protests from a union, which called for a one-day strike. [C3.]
 BEAR SETTLES The former Bear Stearns Companies agreed to pay $28 million to settle charges that it deceived consumers with its home loan practices. [C4.]
 FUNDING FOR LENDERS Although Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are struggling, other government-linked mortgage companies have come through the credit crisis largely unscathed. [C4.]
 Three prominent Democrats criticized the multimillion-dollar pay packages awarded to the former chief executives of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. [C4.]
 NO SURPRISES Steven P. Jobs, the chief executive of Apple, unveiled incremental changes to the iPod line of products and iTunes, setting the company up for the holiday shopping season. Mr. Jobs also announced that NBC was bringing its television lineup back to iTunes. [C3.]
 FEELING THE SQUEEZE Mall landlords are facing mounting challenges: vacancies are up, retail sales have been disappointing and established chains have filed for bankruptcy protection. [C5.]
 TOBACCO GIANT TO CUT JOBS Reynolds American said it would eliminate 570 jobs to reduce costs as cigarette consumption in the United States declines. [C6.]
 CUTTING COSTS, NOT JOBS Airbus presented new cost-cutting measures to unions as part of its plan to seek an additional $1.42 billion in savings. [C9.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LOBBYING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (87%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (87%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); MACHINE TOOLS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); STRIKES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); OIL EXTRACTION (74%); CARTELS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); RETAIL PROPERTY (72%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (71%); LAWYERS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); TOBACCO MFG (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (94%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (83%); BOEING CO (82%); GOOGLE INC (82%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (81%); KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); REYNOLDS AMERICAN INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (54%)

TICKER: RNO (PAR) (83%); RNO (BIT) (83%); BOE (LSE) (82%); BAB (BRU) (82%); BA (NYSE) (82%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (82%); RAI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (94%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (81%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2131 CHEWING & SMOKING TOBACCO & SNUFF (50%); SIC2121 CIGARS (50%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (50%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (77%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



263 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Call to Arms for an American-Led Green Revolution

BYLINE: By DAVID VICTOR. 
David G. Victor, director of the energy and sustainable development program at Stanford University and an adjunct senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, is writing a book on global warming.

 BODY:
HOT, FLAT, AND CROWDED 
 Why We Need a Green Revolution -- and How It Can Renew America 
 By Thomas L. Friedman 
 Illustrated. 438 pages. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $27.95. 
 When the Soviet Union chucked Sputnik into space in 1957, it galvanized America to come from behind and win the space race. The federal government opened its checkbook to finance an array of projects. Students shifted to new subjects like astronautical engineering and Russian studies to help the United States understand and eclipse the Soviet Union. The moon shot inspired a patriotic nation and produced useful commercial technologies along the way. The space race was expensive, but it worked. 
 Thomas L. Friedman's latest book is a plea for a new Sputnik moment. His breezy tour of America's energy policy documents a nation that has become dangerously dependent on fossil fuels. The bulging bank accounts of oil exporters like Russia, Iran and Venezuela give them the swagger and ability to cause lots of mischief. 
 Even more worrisome is all the carbon dioxide that comes from burning fossil fuels, not just oil but also coal and, to a lesser degree, natural gas. Since carbon dioxide pollution accumulates in the atmosphere, humans are recklessly changing the climate. The United States' record is particularly poor because we are, per capita, among the biggest gulpers of oil and belchers of carbon dioxide. The need for American leadership has never been greater.
 And if all that's not bad enough, Mr. Friedman, a columnist for The New York Times and three-time Pulitzer Prize winner, shows that the economic opportunities created by a technology-driven world where the economic playing field has been leveled are making these trends a lot worse. The stunning growth of Asia's tiger economies, especially China's, has been a miracle for the world's industrial output but a horror for the environment.
 Asia's growth hinges on coal, which is bad news because today's coal technologies are particularly intense emitters of carbon dioxide. The best data show that in the last six years alone, China's coal-fired growth has been so rapid that the country has expanded its coal production by an amount equal to the entire output of the United States coal industry. Couple that with the worldwide population shift into cities, and the result is Mr. Friedman's title: ''Hot, Flat, and Crowded.'' 
 The litany of dangers has been told many times before, but Mr. Friedman's voice is compelling and will be widely heard. Dependence on fossil fuels is no longer just a topic for woodsy seminars or the grist for conspiracy theories from the threat industry. Mr. Friedman shows that both energy and environmental fears are going mainstream -- ''green is the new red, white, and blue'' -- and that is a great opportunity for bipartisanship. Unfortunately, the nation's cockpit in Washington is stuffed full of special-interest lobbyists and partisan bickerers. China and other nations, Mr. Friedman warns, will seize the opportunities to invest in new green industries and leave us in the dust. 
 The alarm bells ring with pithy Friedmanisms. My favorite is his broadside against cheap talk about the coming ''green revolution.'' A revolution is needed, to be sure, because a whole suite of new technologies -- from smarter biofuels that cut our dependence on oil to better power plants and a new digital-era electric grid -- are badly needed to supplant today's dirty fuels system. But buzz is not the same as revolution, because real revolutions force new directions, not just new talk. People get hurt.
 Today, Mr. Friedman says, ''the adjective that most often modifies 'green revolution' is 'easy.' That's not a revolution. That's a party.'' This costume party is more about conspicuous environmentalism than facing the hard truths essential to effective energy policy, like what it will really cost to make a change and why that investment is worth it. 
 Mr. Friedman's strength is his diagnosis of our energy and environmental nightmares. But blind spots appear when he turns to remedies. One is renewable power. Like most observers, Mr. Friedman assumes that the road out of today's mess is studded with wind turbines and solar plants. Maybe that's true, but maybe not. Such renewable resources account for only a tiny fraction of current power supply, and when the titans of today's energy industry think about cutting carbon dioxide, they are more likely to imagine building carbon-free nuclear power plants or advanced coal plants that safely bury their pollution underground. 
 These two camps -- the emerging renewable-resources industry and the titans who actually have their hands on the controls in today's energy system -- are pulling in different directions. Economists will rightly have heartburn that these 412 pages never dwell much on the cost of different policy options, nor does Mr. Friedman ever question his claim that building a renewable-energy system is automatically a good idea because many new jobs will flow (at unknown expense) into these new industries. 
 The other blind spot is politics. The most intriguing chapter in Mr. Friedman's book is his last, which poses the toughest challenge. Can America be like China, where a visionary government can impose a new direction on the country in the face of national emergency? Or will America devolve into a country that is so mired in red tape and local opposition that it builds absolutely nothing anywhere, near anything? Societies like that get stuck because they can't embrace new technologies, like the cherished wind turbines and the power lines needed to carry their current.
 Mr. Friedman's lament is that the United States is becoming such a place because parochial interests have created gridlock. But most striking is that this seasoned observer of the American political scene offers not much of a blueprint for fixing the political problem except the bromide that we need new leaders who are willing to embrace better policies. 
 Heads will be nodding across airport lounges, as readers absorb Mr. Friedman's common sense about how America and the world are dangerously addicted to cheap fossil fuels while we recklessly use the atmosphere as a dumping ground for carbon dioxide. The Sputnik is heading into orbit, thanks to high energy prices, growing fear of the changing climate and pleas like Mr. Friedman's. But whether we as a nation -- and with us, the world -- are really prepared to do anything to solve the problem is still in doubt. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY OSTERTAG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (87%); MINING OUTPUT (87%); ENGINEERING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); WRITERS (74%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (71%); COAL MINING (71%); COAL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (69%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (64%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (62%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (54%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: RENEW AMERICA (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

TITLE: Hot, Flat, and Crowded (Book)>; Hot, Flat, and Crowded (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



264 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Feeling a Challenge, Obama Sharpens His Silver Tongue

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: LEBANON, Va. 

 BODY:
A new character is making a debut at Senator Barack Obama's campaign rallies: His name is John McCain.
 It began quietly on Monday in Michigan, but grew in volume as Mr. Obama made his way from Flint to Farmington Hills, carrying over to a speech on Tuesday morning in Ohio. By the time he arrived for an evening stop in the southwestern tip of Virginia, Mr. Obama's sales pitch contained nearly as many references to Senator McCain as to himself, suggesting how the McCain campaign has been driving the recent dialogue of the presidential race. 
 ''John McCain says he's about change, too -- except for economic policy, health care policy, tax policy, education policy, foreign policy and Karl Rove-style politics,'' Mr. Obama told his supporters here. ''That's just calling the same thing something different.'' 
 With a laugh, he added: ''You can put lipstick on a pig; it's still a pig. You can wrap an old fish in a piece of paper called change; it's still going to stink after eight years.''
 In the latest sign of the campaign's heightened intensity, Mr. McCain's surrogates responded within minutes and called on Mr. Obama to apologize to Gov. Sarah Palin for the lipstick remark. But to those in the audience, it was clear that Mr. Obama was employing an age-old phrase -- lipstick on a pig -- and referring to Mr. McCain's policies. He had not yet mentioned Ms. Palin at that point of his speech. 
 The exchange came as Mr. Obama has been stepping up his own rhetoric as he has sought to draw attention back to himself after a week in which Ms. Palin has dominated the stage. 
 For all the discussion about polls this week, perhaps the best barometer of the state of the campaign can be found by simply taking a listen to Mr. Obama as Election Day rushes up on him. 
 With just 57 days remaining in this long presidential race, Mr. Obama is going after Mr. McCain more aggressively than at any other point in the campaign, with a professorial tone giving way to one of prosecution. These days, he sounds more like those sharp-tongued commercials seen on television.
 ''Do you really believe John McCain is going to make a difference now?'' Mr. Obama said, mentioning his rival's name twice in the same breath, a pattern he repeated again and again. ''John McCain doesn't get it.''
 His advisers said that combative edge was essential to blunt any progress Mr. McCain was making as he sought to encroach on Mr. Obama's trademark message of change. Or perhaps it is in response to cries of alarm from Democrats who believe he is being too mild-mannered. 
 But Mr. Obama's remarks are curiously reminiscent -- right down to that mocking tone -- to words he spoke nearly a year ago when Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton suddenly tried to swipe the mantle of change and Mr. Obama demonstrated a fight that many Democrats had doubted he could muster. 
 Mr. Obama has been in this place before: finding the proper temperature to aggressively critique -- or attack -- his rival without tarnishing his own image of trying to remain above traditional politics. As he enters the final eight weeks of the race, advisers said, the lessons from the Democratic primaries are alive in his head.
 Mr. McCain and his running mate, Ms. Palin, seem to be there, too.
 ''A month ago, they were all saying, 'Oh, it's experience, experience, experience,' '' Mr. Obama said, speaking over booming applause the other night in a high school gymnasium. ''Then they chose Palin and they started talking about change, change, change. What happened? What happened? What happened?''
 For one of the few times in his presidential candidacy, Mr. Obama is suddenly not the freshest and most telegenic figure on the ballot. While he seems to have settled on a line of attack against Mr. McCain, his campaign appearances in the past 12 days make clear that he is still grappling with his approach to Ms. Palin.
 He has declared her family off limits. He has praised her biography, telling an audience, ''Mother, governor, moose shooter -- that's cool.'' But he has taken sharp aim at her record as Alaska governor, vigorously questioning her evolving stance on the state's so-called bridge to nowhere. 
 ''She was for it until everybody started raising a fuss about it and she started running for governor and then suddenly she was against it,'' Mr. Obama said, speaking over an applauding crowd in Michigan. ''I mean, you can't just make stuff up. You can't just recreate yourself. You can't just reinvent yourself. The American people aren't stupid.''
 There were plentiful signs in recent days that the voters turning out to see Mr. Obama liked his forceful tone, with several audiences chanting along with him, ''Eight is Enough! Eight is Enough!'' which has become a rallying cry for changing Washington. 
 Newly invigorated, his presence and energy on stage resembled how he began to act last fall as his extended primary battle with Mrs. Clinton became fully engaged. 
 But as in that contest, Mr. Obama's aggressive posture comes with possible pitfalls -- real or created by the opposition -- as he again navigates the tricky terrain of gender politics.
 As Mr. Obama's motorcade passed through the Appalachian countryside on Tuesday night, aides inside his campaign headquarters back in Chicago were fighting back criticism over the lipstick-on-a-pig remark, assertively trying to steer the conversation back to attacking Mr. McCain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (55%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); SARAH PALIN (78%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



265 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2605 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: September 10, 2008

 BODY:
International
 BHUTTO'S WIDOWER INAUGURATED
 As Pakistan's President
 Asif Ali Zardari, the widower of Pakistan's slain former prime minister, Benazir Bhutto, was sworn in as president of Pakistan. He immediately said he would work with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to fight terrorism. It will be a tough balancing act for Mr. Zardari, who must consider how to allow the Americans to increase the attacks against the Taliban while facing strong anti-American sentiment. PAGE A14 
 JAPAN'S RARE ELECTORAL FREE-FOR-ALL
 When Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda of Japan stepped down last week, a rush of candidates jumped into the void he left behind. The election features five candidates from the governing party, and the excitement is a marked departure from Japan's normal scripted successions. But some wonder if it is a true contest. PAGE A14 
 A LANDSLIDE VICTORY IN ANGOLA
 Angola's governing party won the country's first elections since 1992 in a landslide, and, remarkably, the leading opposition party -- which just six years ago was the government's enemy in a decades-long civil war -- peacefully conceded defeat. The governing Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola, known as the M.P.L.A., won with 82 percent of the vote, and will now have a two-thirds majority in Parliament. Election observers found fault in the proceedings, but said the election itself was evidence of democratic progress. PAGE A6 
 GRAPPLING WITH IRAQI ELECTION LAW
 When Iraqi lawmakers returned to Parliament on Tuesday after a month's recess, they came back to a host of issues that they had left unresolved. Among the most important was the passage of a crucial provincial election law, which was bogged down by bitter disputes. Foreign officials are leaning on Iraqi politicians to arrive at a solution soon to take advantage of Iraq's improved security situation. PAGE A10 
 THAI LEADER FORCED FROM OFFICE
 Prime Minister Samak Sundaravej was forced from office when a court ruled that he had violated the Constitution by accepting payments to appear on cooking shows while in office. His party said it would nominate Mr. Samak to succeed himself, an outcome that would seem to defy the spirit of the court ruling and to ensure that Thailand's political crisis would continue. PAGE A8 
 TERRORISM'S HUMAN TOLL
 At a panel at the United Nations, victims of terrorist attacks around the world offered testimony that was intended to highlight the human toll forgotten in most counterterrorism measures. ''It might be the only thing the U.N. can do on this issue is give people a platform, but that is not a bad thing,'' one expert said. PAGE A15 
 National
 LIEBERMAN FEELS FALLOUT 
 Of His Support of McCain
 The endorsement of Senator John McCain by Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut earned him a cold reception from Senate Democrats upon his return to Washington. If the Democrats add to their Senate numbers next year, as expected, it could also cost him his seat at the head of the homeland security committee. PAGE A16 
 BILL AIMS TO EASE GUN RESTRICTIONS
 Officials of the District of Columbia and the federal government said at a House oversight hearing that a bill before Congress to ease restrictions on guns in the district would make it harder to protect federal workers, residents and the president. The bill, a response to a recent 5-to-4 Supreme Court decision that overturned the city's 32-year-old ban on handguns, would make it easier for residents to legally buy semiautomatic weapons. PAGE A16 
 UNION MOUNTS RECALL CAMPAIGN
 California's influential prison guards' union said it would pursue a recall election against Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger because it had lost faith in his leadership during one of the longest budget impasses in state history. Schwarzenegger officials said the recall attempt was an intimidation tactic by the union, the California Correctional Peace Officers Association, to force the governor to raise wages for its 31,000 members and suggested that it was timed to benefit the union's incumbent leadership during an election this month. PAGE A23 
 CHARGES AGAINST FACTORY OWNERS
 Iowa's attorney general charged the owners and managers of a kosher meatpacking plant with child labor violations after nearly 400 of its workers were detained in an immigration raid this year. In all, 9,311 criminal misdemeanor charges were filed against the company, Agriprocessors Incorporated, its owner and his son in the employment of 32 under-age workers. PAGE A16 
 EXECUTION POSTPONED IN TEXAS
 Lawyers for a condemned man in Texas said in a letter to the state's governor that a prosecutor who handled his murder trial admitted under oath that he and the judge carried on a secret affair for years. The highest criminal court in Texas postponed the execution, not because of the affair, but to reconsider whether the jury instructions were flawed. PAGE A17 
 OBAMA CHANGES TACK
 With 57 precious days remaining in the presidential race, Senator Barack Obama is going after his rival, Senator John McCain, more aggressively than at any other point in the race. Mr. Obama's change in tenor on the stump is set to address a lingering problem: for all the excitement generated by the Democratic convention, the dynamics of the race have not changed in his favor. PAGE A20 
 METRO 
 CODE WORDS HINT OF RACE
 In Campaign, Governor Says
 Gov. David A. Paterson, the fourth black governor in American history, said he detected ''overtones of potential racial coding'' in the presidential campaign, pointing to remarks made last week during the Republican National Convention. His comments drew a retort from the presidential campaign of Senator John McCain. PAGE B2 
 TRAGIC RIPPLES, LARGE AND SMALL
 As another anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks draws near, two new pieces of nonfiction take very different tacks in their illustrations of that day. In one, an author traces back to the White House the path of a false story linking the attacks to Iraq. The other examines the robust life of a Fire Department chaplain who died in the attacks, and who had his own secrets. Jim Dwyer, About New York. B1 
 BUSINESS
 ADJUSTMENTS TO IPOD AND ITUNES IN TIME FOR HOLIDAY SEASON
 Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive, announced a host of incremental changes to the iPod and iTunes music service: new features and a newly svelte design for the iPod Nano; a cheaper, upgraded iPod Touch music player; and a new version of iTunes that will recommend music to buy based on the songs in a person's music collection. Mr. Jobs also announced that NBC was bringing its television lineup back to iTunes. PAGE C3 
 STUDENT LENDERS ACCEPT CURBS
 Resolving an investigation into whether they misled consumers, seven student loan companies -- Campus Door, EduCap, GMAC Bank, Graduate Loan Associates, Nelnet, NextStudent and Xanthus Financial Services -- have agreed to follow a code of conduct for their marketing, the New York attorney general's office said. The companies also agreed to put a total of $1.4 million into a fund to help educate students and their families about financial aid. PAGE C1 
 CONSUMERS TURN TO THRIFT STORES
 While the nation's best-known retail chains are pulling out all the stops to lure shoppers and boost their abysmal sales, their customers are defecting to an unlikely foe: the local thrift shop. But the same economic woes that are sending buyers their way are prompting donors to hand over fewer items, so many stores are running low on inventory. PAGE C1 
 Layoffs Expected at Renault C3 
 Airbus Says European Jobs Are Safe C9 
 METRO 
 CODE WORDS HINT OF RACE
 In Campaign, Governor Says
 Gov. David A. Paterson, the fourth black governor in American history, said he detected ''overtones of potential racial coding'' in the presidential campaign, pointing to remarks made last week during the Republican National Convention. His comments drew a retort from the presidential campaign of Senator John McCain. PAGE B2 
 TRAGIC RIPPLES, LARGE AND SMALL
 As another anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks draws near, two new pieces of nonfiction take very different tacks in their illustrations of that day. In one, an author traces back to the White House the path of a false story linking the attacks to Iraq. The other examines the robust life of a Fire Department chaplain who died in the attacks, and who had his own secrets. Jim Dwyer, About New York. B1 
 BUSINESS
 ADJUSTMENTS TO IPOD AND ITUNES IN TIME FOR HOLIDAY SEASON
 Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive, announced a host of incremental changes to the iPod and iTunes music service: new features and a newly svelte design for the iPod Nano; a cheaper, upgraded iPod Touch music player; and a new version of iTunes that will recommend music to buy based on the songs in a person's music collection. Mr. Jobs also announced that NBC was bringing its television lineup back to iTunes. PAGE C3 
 STUDENT LENDERS ACCEPT CURBS
 Resolving an investigation into whether they misled consumers, seven student loan companies -- Campus Door, EduCap, GMAC Bank, Graduate Loan Associates, Nelnet, NextStudent and Xanthus Financial Services -- have agreed to follow a code of conduct for their marketing, the New York attorney general's office said. The companies also agreed to put a total of $1.4 million into a fund to help educate students and their families about financial aid. PAGE C1 
 CONSUMERS TURN TO THRIFT STORES
 While the nation's best-known retail chains are pulling out all the stops to lure shoppers and boost their abysmal sales, their customers are defecting to an unlikely foe: the local thrift shop. But the same economic woes that are sending buyers their way are prompting donors to hand over fewer items, so many stores are running low on inventory. PAGE C1 
 Layoffs Expected at Renault C3 
 Airbus Says European Jobs Are Safe C9 
 Dining
 FOR BETTER, FOR WORSE
 For Richer, For Pasta
 That Victor Hazan has written every word of English in his wife Marcella Hazan's six Italian cookbooks is the worst-kept secret in cooking. Now he has created the ultimate translation: her memoir, ''Amarcord: Marcella Remembers.'' ''Her gift is the mystery of creation,'' he explained. ''My gift is the ability to remember taste and the talk at the table about food, and to capture it in words.'' Page D1 
 IT'S SOUP, NOT ROCKET SCIENCE
 Late summer has arrived, and with the footsteps of fall around the corner, it's the ideal time to make soup, Mark Bittman writes. He tackles misconceptions -- it takes forever, you can't make it without stock, it's best with scraps and bones -- and offers a bit of advice passed down to him: ''If you want your soup to taste like scraps, use scraps. If you want it to taste like meat and vegetables, use meat and vegetables.'' Page D3 
 THE SCHOLAR AS VINTNER
 Wine by discovery is the driving force behind Scholium Project winery, run by Abe Schoener. Trial and error could be hinted at as well, but it would not address the deliberate nature of some of Mr. Schoener's decisions, such as ''maintaining a complex microbiology'' by using only water to clean equipment. Some of his wines are exquisite, Eric Asimov writes, and others completely undrinkable. A cult wine perhaps, but one for a thinking man. Page D8 
 Sports
 IN NAMING RIGHTS NEGOTIATIONS,
 A Potential Minefield
 The Giants and the Jets are trying to sell the naming rights to their new stadium, but those come with moral and public relations questions: they are negotiating with Allianz, a Munich-based insurer and financial services company with disturbing connections to Nazi Germany. The possibility of an Allianz Stadium will make some people cringe, especially in a market that is home to many Jewish people, and where the Tisch family, which owns half of the Giants, has supported many Jewish causes. PAGE C14 
 RIDING BACK INTO THE PICTURE
 It's official: Lance Armstrong -- the cancer survivor and seven-time Tour de France winner -- announced that he would emerge from retirement and climb back onto his bike. And though he did not release many details, he said his return was to aid in launching an international cancer initiative. PAGE C16 
 Wealth & Personal Finance
 THE LARGER THE BANK ACCOUNT,
 The Larger the Worry
 In an economic downturn, even those whose net worth is in the billions feel the squeeze. Just ask their psychologists. ''To the extent that they have shame, then the shame multiplies with the size of the fortune,'' one psychologist said. ''The more they have, the more they're afraid they're going to act out with it.'' PAGE H2
 Obituaries
 DON GUTTERIDGE, 96
 He was the last surviving player for the St. Louis Browns to appear in that lowly franchise's lone World Series in 1944, and later played for their crosstown rival, the decidedly more popular St. Louis Cardinals. ''Some days I knew everybody in the ballpark on a first-name basis,'' he once said. ''You could have fired a shotgun into the stands and not hit anyone.'' PAGE A25 
 arts
 ARTIST. AUTHOR.
 Delightful Curmudgeon.
 Writers of children's books are supposed to be cuddly grandpa-types. Not Maurice Sendak, the prolific author and illustrator, who is buffeted by myriad insecurities in the twilight of his life. He spends his days doggedly nursing outsized hatreds and lamenting the inadequacy of his work. Even his recent triple-bypass surgery gives him cause for complaint; he says it should have been a quadruple: ''You feel like such a failure.'' PAGE B1 
 A CALL FOR A GREEN REVOLUTION
 In ''Hot, Flat and Crowded,'' Thomas Friedman calls for American leadership on environmental issues. David G. Victor commends Mr. Friedman's disdain for cheap talk by politicians about the coming green revolution. ''Buzz is not the same as revolution, because real revolutions force new directions, not just new talk,'' Mr. Victor writes. ''People get hurt.'' PAGE B7 
 A HIT-MAKING HODGE-PODGE
 Are the Gym Class Heroes a rap group? A rock band? The genre-bending outfit from Geneva, N.Y., are made up of an odd mix of parts. Their drummer was trained in jazz, the bassist prefers highly technical heavy metal, the guitarist is inclined toward epic rock and their frontman is a former battle rapper who has a soft spot for Hall and Oates. And while they may have gold records to their credit, that does not keep them from getting nervous around their idols, like LL Cool J. PAGE B1 
 Bravo's 'Top Design' B3
 Editorial
 STILL NO EXIT
 President Bush is nothing if not consistent. In a speech on Tuesday, he made clear that he has no plan at all for ending the war in Iraq and no serious plan for winning the war in Afghanistan. Page A26
 MEANER STREETS IN WASHINGTON
 Congress is considering a reckless bill that would eviscerate gun controls in the District of Columbia. The proposed legislation would trample on the rights of residents of the district and make it harder for police to secure streets traveled by elected officials, judges, diplomats and citizens. Page A26
 PRESERVING NEW YORK'S SCHOOLS
 The New York State Legislature placed a smart bet in 2002 when it gave Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg direct control of the city's school system. Judging by test scores, the city's students are benefiting. Page A26
 Op-Ed
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 Voters don't listen through their ears. They listen through their stomachs. Barack Obama early on, particularly with young people, connected on a gut level like no other politician since Ronald Reagan. But in recent weeks, he seems to have lost that gut connection, and it seems as if Sarah Palin has helped John McCain find one. Page A27

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTION LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LITIGATION (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); TALIBAN (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); TESTIMONY (69%); ELECTION MONITORING (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%)

PERSON: BENAZIR BHUTTO (90%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (88%); SAMAK SUNDARAVEJ (78%); YASUO FUKUDA (58%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) PAKISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); ANGOLA (93%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); THAILAND (86%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



266 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; IF ELECTED ...; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1697 words

HEADLINE: Obama Looks to Lessons From Chicago in His National Education Plan

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from Dayton, Ohio.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama learned how hard it can be to solve America's public education problems when he headed a philanthropic drive here a decade ago that spent $150 million on Chicago's troubled schools and barely made a dent. 
 Drawing on that experience, Mr. Obama, the Democratic nominee for president, is campaigning on an ambitious plan that promises $18 billion a year in new federal spending on early childhood classes, teacher recruitment, performance pay and dozens of other initiatives. 
 In Dayton, Ohio, on Tuesday, Mr. Obama used his education proposals to draw a contrast with Senator John McCain, his Republican opponent, and to insist to voters that he, more than his rival, would change the way Washington works. 
 Were he to become president, Mr. Obama would retain the emphasis on the high standards and accountability of President Bush's education law, No Child Left Behind. But he would rewrite the federal law to offer more help to high-need schools, especially by training thousands of new teachers to serve in them, his campaign said. He would also expand early childhood education, which he believes gets more bang for the buck than remedial classes for older students. 
 Mr. Obama added a new flourish to his stump speech, promising for the first time on Tuesday to double federal spending on public charter schools while holding those with poor records accountable.
 But more than most campaign blueprints, Mr. Obama's education plan reflects his own work with Chicago's public schools, campaign staff members and people who have worked with him said in interviews. His plan signals that he is looking to apply those lessons nationwide.
 ''Barack has been very engaged, very inquisitive about the dynamics of how do you improve public schools,'' said Scott Smith, a former publisher of The Chicago Tribune who has collaborated with Mr. Obama on education projects here for a decade. 
 One of the biggest lessons Mr. Obama drew from his experiences in Chicago, associates said, is that student achievement is highly dependent on teacher quality. 
 In the two decades since Mr. Obama arrived in Chicago, its public schools have undergone a sweeping turnaround, from an education wasteland to a district that, while still facing major challenges, is among the most improved in the nation. The city has closed many failing schools and reopened them with new staffs, making it an important laboratory for one of the country's most vexing problems. 
 The city closed the failing Dodge Elementary School, for example, in 2002 and reopened it as an academy where candidates for advanced degrees in education work in classrooms under master teachers while studying at a local university. Mr. Obama visited the school in 2005, liked what he saw and now proposes to create 200 such teacher residency programs nationwide. The goal, he says, would be to turn out 30,000 teachers a year to work in the toughest schools. 
 Mr. Obama's views have drawn heavily from a cast of experts who helped mold the Chicago experience. Strategies for overhauling failing schools have come from Arne Duncan, who as chief executive of the Chicago public schools led the turnaround efforts. The senator derived his views on early childhood education in part from the work of a Nobel Prize-winning economist based in Chicago. 
 The scope of Mr. Obama's plan has impressed many educators, but not everyone. 
 Michael J. Petrilli, a former Education Department official under Mr. Bush, said Mr. Obama's plan was more comprehensive than Mr. McCain's. 
 ''That's because Obama is proposing what somebody called a Christmas tree of new programs,'' Mr. Petrilli said. ''McCain is suggesting a couple of new things, but doesn't think Washington should spend more on education than we already are.'' 
 Mr. Obama's interest in education extends back to his work as a community organizer here in the mid-1980s. In his memoir, ''Dreams From My Father,'' he describes a school system plagued by textbook shortages and teacher strikes. He carried those experiences with him to Harvard Law School, where he took courses on school issues taught by Christopher Edley Jr.
 ''Barack became committed to the notion that progress in school reform can't come through volunteerism and professional aspiration alone,'' said Mr. Edley, now dean of the law school at the University of California, Berkeley. ''It has to be undergirded with a legal and regulatory structure that rewards success and goes after failure.'' 
 Mr. Obama immersed himself in education issues after his return to Chicago, where he began lecturing at the University of Chicago Law School and joined the boards of two education foundations.
 Chicago received $49 million from a $500 million endowment by Walter H. Annenberg, the billionaire publisher, for school reform efforts nationwide, and the city added $98 million in matching funds for the Chicago Annenberg Challenge, a philanthropic campaign that financed enrichment projects at a third of the city's 600 schools. 
 Mr. Obama was nominated to the Challenge board and was elected chairman in 1995, said Ken Rolling, executive director of the group, which operated through 2001. Mr. Obama continued to teach law during his five-year unpaid tenure as board chairman, and he was twice elected to the Illinois Senate. 
 Several board members, including two university presidents, far outranked Mr. Obama in education experience. 
 ''Let me say the room had no shortage of egos, including my own,'' said Stanley O. Ikenberry, a board member who at the time was president of the University of Illinois. ''It was unusual: here you had a person trained in the law chairing a board on school reform.'' Still, he said, Mr. Obama won his colleagues' respect. 
 Supporters of Mr. McCain have been trying to taint Mr. Obama by highlighting his ties to William Ayers, a member of the violent Weather Underground in the 1960s, by pointing out that they worked on the Challenge project together. Mr. Ayers was indicted on conspiracy charges that were later thrown out for prosecutorial misconduct.
 Mr. Obama has acknowledged that he is a friend of Mr. Ayers but has sought to minimize their interactions. Records show that Mr. Ayers, now a professor of education at the University of Illinois at Chicago, helped write the Challenge proposal. The records also show that he and Mr. Obama worked on the Challenge project together and that they attended some of the same meetings. 
 The Challenge's overall approach -- supporting many diverse education projects rather than a coordinated school improvement strategy -- had been established before Mr. Obama was named board chairman, and the board came under immediate pressure to approve grant proposals quickly. 
 ''If you throw $10 on the table in Chicago, people are going to fight over it, and we had $50 million,'' Mr. Rolling recalled. 
 Proposals poured in and the board eventually financed projects involving 210 schools. Some were imaginative: one, for example, connected schools with museums in the Chicago area so that students learned science from a paleontologist at the local dinosaur exhibit. But many were not. 
 ''The project proposals by and large were awful,'' one board member told an evaluation team in 1998. 
 Relations with school authorities were difficult. Just as the Challenge got under way, the Illinois Legislature gave Mayor Richard M. Daley control of the school district, and he began an improvement campaign based on high-stakes testing and other measures. Annenberg's let-a-thousand-flowers-bloom approach often seemed at cross-purposes with that strategy. 
 Ben LaBolt, a spokesman for the Obama campaign, said the reading and math scores of the lowest-achieving students improved in the years when the Challenge was investing in the Chicago schools.
 But a final report on the Challenge concluded that the huge effort had brought little change. 
 ''The Challenge's 'bottom line' was improving student achievement,'' the report said. ''Among the schools it supported, the Challenge had little impact on student outcomes.'' 
 But the experience gave Mr. Obama an appreciation for the multiple problems facing urban schools, Mr. Rolling said. The city has been a pioneer ever since in exploring ways to recruit, train and support teachers. 
 This has been especially true since leadership of the city schools passed in 2001 to Mr. Duncan, a friend of and sounding board for Mr. Obama. The two also frequently play basketball. 
 Mr. Duncan accompanied Mr. Obama on his visit in 2005 to the Dodge school, now the Dodge Renaissance Academy, on the West Side of Chicago. After the school's makeover, student scores rose significantly, and Mr. Obama wanted to know why. 
 The two men arrived with no entourage and sat down with the staff in a library. Mr. Obama asked about the best way to train teachers, according to those who participated. What would it take to keep qualified teachers from leaving the profession? Would merit pay help? ''He wasn't checking his Palm Pilot,'' recalled Karla Kemp, a teacher. 
 Mr. Obama has brought a similar intensity to discussions of early childhood education, on which he proposes to spend $10 billion a year. A Chicago expert who has influenced his thinking on this is the Nobel laureate, James J. Heckman, an economist at the University of Chicago. Mr. Obama's plan cites Dr. Heckman in connection with research that found that for every dollar spent on prekindergarten education and the care of infants and their families, there is a $7 to $10 decrease in spending on special education, remedial education and prisons. 
 The two men have never met, even though they live so close to each other in the Kenwood neighborhood that they use the same dry cleaner and it occasionally sends Mr. Obama's suit coats to Dr. Heckman's home. 
 Last year, when Mr. Obama started his presidential campaign and began preparing his education plan, an assistant to Mr. Obama contacted Dr. Heckman and asked him to react to an early draft of the early childhood plan. 
 ''I completely redrafted the section,'' Dr. Heckman said. ''Most striking about the campaign was that they listened to what I said.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama, under the lights at Stebbins High School in Riverside, Ohio, discussed his education proposals Tuesday, including a plan to double spending on public charter schools.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) CHART: A Long Interest in Education: Senator Barack Obama's career and education-related work. Chart details timeline. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); CHRONOLOGIES (65%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (57%) OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



267 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: From The Gut

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
If John McCain can win this election race with a 50-pound ball called ''George W. Bush'' wrapped around one ankle and a 50-pound ball called ''The U.S. Economy'' wrapped around the other, then he deserves to represent America in the next Olympics in any race he wants -- swimming, cycling or track -- I don't care how old he is. He would be the Michael Phelps of politics.
 I confess, I watch politics from afar, but here's what I've been feeling for a while: Whoever slipped that Valium into Barack Obama's coffee needs to be found and arrested by the Democrats because Obama has gone from cool to cold. 
 Somebody needs to tell Obama that if he wants the chance to calmly answer the phone at 3 a.m. in the White House, he is going to need to start slamming down some phones at 3 p.m. along the campaign trail. I like much of what he has to say, especially about energy, but I don't think people are feeling it in their guts, and I am a big believer that voters don't listen through their ears. They listen through their stomachs. 
 If you as a politician connect with voters on a gut level, they will follow you anywhere and not fret about the details. If you don't connect with them on a gut level, you can't show them enough details. Obama early on, and particularly with young people, connected on a gut level like no other politician since Ronald Reagan.
 But in recent weeks, I feel as though he has lost that gut connection. I thought his convention speech contained no memorable lines or uplifting visions. It never got me out of my seat. Forget trashing McCain's ideas. If Obama wants to rally his base, he has to be more passionate about his own ideas. I have long felt that what propelled Obama early was the fact that many Americans understand in their guts that we need a change, but the change we need is to focus on nation-building at home. We're in decline. We need to get back to work on our country. And that is going to require strong, smart government.
 Who is bailing out Fannie Mae? Who is going to build a new energy system? Health care? More tax cuts are not going to do it. But I am just not sure that Obama is making the sale that he has the plan and passion to unite and mobilize the country for this task.
 In a way, I would love to hear Obama say, just for shock value: ''I am so eager to do whatever it takes to fix these problems that I am ready to be a one-term president. Mine will not be a presidency that is confined to the first 100 days. But that is what we have fallen into, folks. The first 100 days have become the only 100 days. Once they are over, presidents are told that they have to trim their sails to get ready for the midterm elections, and once the midterms are over they are told that they have to trim their sails and get ready for the next presidential election. We can't solve our problems with a government of 100 days. I am going to work the hard problems the hard way for 1,461 days.''
 I don't know how long or high the ''Sarah Palin bounce'' will go, but I would take her very seriously as a politician. She may not know nuclear deterrence theory, but she can deliver a line. ''I think there are a lot of women out there that look at her, holding her baby, talking about being a hockey mom, and say, 'She knows what I feel; she's going through what I am going through,' '' remarked leadership expert John Maxwell.
 As Neil Oxman, political consultant at The Campaign Group, put it to me: For half the country, ''Sarah Palin is Roseanne from the 'Roseanne' show. 'Roseanne' was the No. 1 comedy five years in a row and seven out of nine in the top 10.'' She is connecting at a gut level. So does McCain -- and, therefore, they don't need to give their constituents many details.
 This race has a long way to go. It is still Obama's election to lose. But Obama got where he is today by defining himself as the agent of change and by defining change as the issue in this election. McCain, with Palin's help, has once again not only made Obama's experience an issue, but has now moved in on Obama's strength and tried to define the G.O.P. ticket as the party of ''change.'' 
 How, you ask, can two people running with the exact same policies as the party that has been in power for eight years, claim to be the agents of ''change?'' That's politics. There's no shame. But what this has done is to make the word ''change'' as a campaign slogan meaningless. Obama will need to find another way to connect his ideas -- clearly, crisply and passionately.
 Because, while the pollsters tell us it is still really close, my own totally unscientific, seat of the pants poll tells me this: When you say Obama's name today and ask people for their first impression -- a quick, flash, gut, first impression -- no single word or phrase or policy comes to mind. His opponents will fill that vacuum if he doesn't. They already are. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CYCLING (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (62%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); MICHAEL PHELPS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



268 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: The Bailout, Free Markets and History

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Bailout's Big Lessons'' (editorial, Sept. 9):
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are institutions that are too big to fail. Their failure would have dire consequences for financial markets all over the world, especially since many central banks in Asia have kept much of their foreign reserves in the obligations of these two government-chartered corporations under the belief that the United States government would, if necessary, accept these obligations as its own. 
 If these two institutions' balance sheets indicated that without anything being done they were on the brink of failure, then the conservatorship proposed by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. is better than nothing. 
 But the plan is defective because it permits the companies' executives to walk away with millions of dollars in compensation and the debt holders of these institutions to apparently avoid any penalty for purchasing obligations that were not legally guaranteed by the United States government.
 The Paulson solution represents the result of a political system that since the Reagan era has not only been reluctant to regulate financial institutions but has also actually encouraged free-market behavior that ultimately had to end disastrously. 
 Both Republican and Democratic administrations since the late 1970s have failed to remember the lessons of the history of the Great Depression and the collapse of unfettered financial markets that followed the Roaring Twenties prosperity in the United States. Those who do not study history are bound to repeat its errors. Paul Davidson 
 Monroe Township, N.J., Sept. 9, 2008
 The writer is the editor of The Journal of Post Keynesian Economics.
 To the Editor:
 The most significant lesson to be learned from the bailout of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is that it disproves the idea that free markets can in and of themselves function efficiently without sensible regulations and effective enforcement.
 We have lost our way because we have allowed a political system to take root where money and the passion for power have been allowed to compromise the need for honest government and an efficient economic system to meet the ideals that bind us all together.
 Leo Montagna 
 Northport, N.Y., Sept. 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Few Stand to Gain on This Bailout, and Many Lose'' (Business Day, Sept. 8):
 Millions of American homeowners bought their homes judiciously and pay their mortgages responsibly. With the mortgage meltdown, many of these owners have seen the value of their homes, their primary investment, drop considerably, as house after house in neighborhood after neighborhood has been abandoned to foreclosure. 
 Now these same people, as taxpayers, will assume the mortgage debt of these unlucky homes as our government assumes control of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 That the leaders of the financial institutions that caused this mess have collected, and will collect, millions of dollars in compensation, stock options, bonuses and severance pay is obscene. 
 That no one has been held accountable for the rampant greed and unscrupulous investment is inexcusable.
 Pietro Allar 
 New York, Sept. 8, 2008
 To the Editor:
 According to ''As Crisis Grew, a Few Options Shrank to One'' (front page, Sept. 8), the government acted because ''if Freddie's and Fannie's problems worsened, a crisis of confidence could spread through the worldwide financial system, deepening the difficulties in the housing market and further weakening the economy -- in the midst of a hard-fought election campaign.'' 
 Notwithstanding the panicked improvisations of the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve in recent months, the domestic and global economies are already in precisely such a crisis, brought on by irresponsible ''creative'' financing, securitization of questionable debt, and the passing of risk through financial instruments and obligations that are not even understood by the people who own them.
 In the final analysis, this crisis has been fueled by the same combination of greed, dishonesty, willful blindness and wishful thinking that has generated every disaster of capitalism from the Dutch tulip collapse through the Great Depression, the Enron and WorldCom scandals, and the dot-com bust. 
 John S. Koppel 
 Bethesda, Md., Sept. 8, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Mortgage Giants Taken Over by U.S.: A Costly Bailout'' (front page, Sept. 8):
 To limit the cost to taxpayers, the government should form an entity similar to the Resolution Trust Corporation, which liquidated the assets of the failed S.&L.'s during the 1990s. This government-owned agency would hold the assets of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae until they could be valued based on the quality of the underlying mortgages.
 Unless this happens, the sell-off will be premature, and vulture-fund speculators will buy the undervalued assets. 
 Because of market illiquidity and the inability to price the portfolios, the assets of the government-sponsored entities should be held until the mortgage-backed securities market returns to some semblance of normality. That will minimize the cost to taxpayers. 
 Jerry Chautin
 Atlanta, Sept. 8, 2008
 The writer is a retired mortgage banker.
 To the Editor: 
 Housing is a basic need for all Americans, and now the United States government has rescued the financiers behind the housing industry. 
 Adequate medical care is also a basic need for all Americans. 
 Perhaps now there can be a real discussion of how the federal government can assure that everyone will have access to good medical care without invoking the bogyman of socialism.
 Martin Magid 
 Bloomfield Hills, Mich., Sept. 8, 2008
 To the Editor:
 With the bailout of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, the Reagan revolution has at last realized the robber barons' dream: privatize the profits and socialize the debt. Nicely done, fellas.
 Candida Pugh 
 Oakland, Calif., Sept. 8, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOMBY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); WRITERS (73%); HISTORY (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (72%); POLITICS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); HOMEOWNERS (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); HOME PRICES (60%); STOCK OPTIONS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); CENTRAL BANKS (57%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008



269 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: As Credit Lines Fade, Credit Cards Step In

BYLINE: By JANE BIRNBAUM

 BODY:
The credit card offers are in the mail.
 Just as the slowing economy has made access to cash a higher priority for a lot of small businesses, banks have become more reluctant to extend traditional lines of credit to those businesses, experts say. But banks have been offering ''small business'' credit cards. 
 Bank cards and lines of credit both offer money when it is needed, but there is a fundamental difference: lines of credit have low, fixed interest rates or slow-moving, variable ones, while interest rates on credit cards can jump unpredictably. 
 ''Small-business cards have fundamentally replaced lines of credit,'' said Alan L. Carsrud, executive director of the Global Entrepreneurship Center at Florida International University in Miami. 
 Bob Seiwert, head of the Center for Commercial Lending and Business Banking at the American Bankers Association, said he had no hard data but appeared to agree with Mr. Carsrud's assessment. ''People are driven to cards today because bank credit lines are tougher to get'' as banks have tightened credit in the last six months or year, he said. ''Lenders may adjust card rates and limits as the perceived risk of lending to the borrower increases.'' 
 Entrepreneurs have long used personal credit cards to help bankroll new ventures, said Scott A. Shane, a professor of entrepreneurial studies at Case Western Reserve University. 
 The small-business cards often differ from personal credit cards in that some offer benefits like product discounts and extended payment terms. But they are identical in critical ways -- users are generally liable for revolving balances that grow exponentially as interest rates rise, and lenders may sometimes raise rates and reduce credit limits at any time for any reason.
 In a survey in February of 500 owners of small and medium-size businesses, the National Small Business Association, a lobbying group in Washington, found that 28 percent had used bank loans in the previous year, a record low. Forty-four percent said they had used cards to meet capital needs in the previous six months. Fifty-seven percent said their card terms had worsened over the last year. 
 ''I don't fault banks for charging high interest rates on cards because so many small businesses fail,'' said Marilyn Landis, the group's chairwoman and a 30-year banking veteran. But ''small-business owners desperately need the ability to enter contracts with card providers that are predictable, understandable and stable.'' 
 Ms. Landis, who owns a company in Pittsburgh that provides chief financial officer services to growing businesses, spoke from personal experience. She said that her introductory rate on a small-business card had risen to 27.9 percent, from 3.9 percent, after the lender said a mailed payment had arrived one day late. 
 Stephen Strachan, a flower importer in York, Pa., told members of Congress this spring that rate increases on business and personal cards had forced him to curtail ventures and lay off workers. Mr. Strachan made his remarks at hearings for a bill pending in Congress, the Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights.
 Beginning in late 2001, Mr. Strachan said, the only new bank credit lines he could find had interest rates higher than those on his personal and business cards. So, he said, he used cards to supplement existing credit lines. 
 ''Card lenders originally offered me very high limits at very attractive rates because of my excellent credit profile,'' he said in an interview. ''But once I accepted, a couple really turned up the heat.''
 In 2003, he said, one bank raised interest rates from as low as 3 percent to as high as 30 percent on four cards with a total balance of about $150,000. The lender cited Mr. Strachan's rising total debt, and late and missing payments, as the cause. Mr. Strachan said that whenever he had received statements, he had always mailed payments ''well before their due date.'' 
 In May, the Federal Reserve released proposals for limiting the circumstances under which lenders could increase interest rates on existing card balances. The limits would apply to personal cards -- including any business expenses charged on them -- but not to business cards, a Fed spokeswoman said. 
 Small-business card lenders generally grant initial terms on the basis of personal credit, with consideration of any business payment scores.
 Business card usage is sometimes reported to personal credit bureaus. This can decrease a personal credit score, known as a FICO score because it was created by the Fair Isaac Corporation. 
 Ms. Landis said some of her business card activity had appeared on personal credit reports. And FICO decreases can also result in higher business card rates, she said. ''I know because I ran up a balance on a personal card while traveling, which dropped my FICO, and the rate on one of my business cards immediately went from about 18 percent to 23 percent.'' 
 Jason Peringer, a certified massage therapist on Martha's Vineyard, said he discovered the connection between personal and business credit after his home burned down. 
 A construction loan and a houseful of new furnishings that he put on personal cards -- purchases required before an insurer would partly reimburse him -- increased Mr. Peringer's debt-to-income ratio and lowered his credit score, he said. American Express cut his business card limit to $1,000, from $15,000, and the Advanta Corporation raised his business rate to 34.99 percent, from 16.99 percent, he said. 
 ''I had never missed or been late on any payments,'' he said. 
 There is not much data about card charge-offs -- the debt that lenders write off as uncollectible -- stemming from small business. The Federal Reserve found that charge-offs for all commercial bank cards rose in the second quarter, reaching 5.47 percent. Neither the central bank nor most large lenders break out business card charge-offs. 
 But Advanta, which markets MasterCards exclusively to small businesses, reported second-quarter charge-offs of 8.38 percent, up from 3.48 percent a year earlier. Advanta said it was one of the largest small-business card issuers last year.
 Entrepreneurs get the most out of cards when they regularly pay off their balances. ''Many of my clients use them, but in a limited way in the early stages,'' said Michael Gonnerman, a financial adviser in Boston to high-tech entrepreneurs. 
 Timothy Ferriss, author of the best-seller ''The 4-Hour Workweek'' and a business consultant in San Francisco, began his entrepreneurial career selling a sports nutritional supplement. He said he had already done market testing and secured customer commitments when he put $10,000 in manufacturing costs on personal cards in 2001. 
 He said he had charged about 70 percent to an American Express card requiring monthly payment in full. The rest went to zero percent introductory rate cards that he paid off within three months. ''I avoided depending on self-discipline, which entrepreneurs often overestimate.'' 
 Today, Mr. Ferriss said, he often asks customers to charge their payments. Even if he must accept slightly less, he prefers the immediate payment to managing the cash flow problems of extended payment terms. 
 Entrepreneurs may pay dearly if they fail to understand their small-business card agreements. Victor Patenaude, a collections lawyer in San Diego, wrote in an e-mail message that he had obtained ''thousands of judgments'' against entrepreneurs who could not pay their business card debt. ''Last week, an attorney called up, guns blazing, and said we will lose at trial if we think her client is personally liable,'' he wrote. ''After I faxed the application and pointed out the small print, she fired her client and suggested he pay us.'' 
 Marc Augustine, a consumer electronics exporter in Miami, said he had negotiated a bank credit line and several cards without personal liability by building a solid history of borrowing and rapid repayment. He said he was concerned about a friend, already the owner of one business, who has put $30,000 on personal cards to start a new venture. 
 ''I speak to him, but he says he has to have it now,'' Mr. Augustine said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephen Strachan, a flower importer, said rate increases on credit cards had forced him to curtail ventures and lay off workers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRADLEY C. BOWER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LOBBYING (68%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (56%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (76%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



270 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: In the Seventh Year

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
And in the seventh year after the fall, the dust and debris of the towers cleared. And it became plain at last what had been wrought.
 For the wreckage begat greed; and it came to pass that while America's young men and women fought, other Americans enriched themselves. Beguiling the innocent, they did backdate options, and they did package toxic mortgage securities and they did reprice risk on the basis that it no more existed than famine in a fertile land.
 Thereby did the masters of the universe prosper, with gold, with silver shekels, with land rich in cattle and fowl, with illegal manservants and maids, with jewels and silk, and with Gulfstream V business jets; yet the whole land did not prosper with them. And it came to pass, when the housing bubble burst, that Main Street had to pay for the Wall Street party. 
 For Bush ruled over the whole nation and so sure was he of his righteousness that he did neglect husbandry.
 And he took his nation into desert wars and mountain wars, but, lo, he thought not to impose taxation, not one heifer nor sheep nor ox did Bush demand of the rich. And it came to pass that the nation fell into debt as boundless as the wickedness of Sodom. For everyone, Lehman not least, was maxed out.
 So heavy was the burden of war, and of bailing out Fannie and Freddie, and of financing debt with China, that not one silver shekel remained to build bridges, nor airports, nor high-speed trains, nor even to take care of wounded vets; and the warriors returning unto their homes from distant combat thought a blight had fallen on the land.
 So it was in the seventh year after the fall of the towers. And still Bush did raise his hands to the Lord and proclaim: ''I will be proved right in the end!''
 And around the whole earth, which had stood with America, there arose a great trouble, for it seemed to peoples abroad that a great nation, rich in flocks and herds and land and water, had been cast among thorns and Philistines; its promise betrayed, its light dimmed, its armies stretched, its budget broken, its principles compromised, its dollar diminished.
 And it came to pass that this profligate nation, drinking oil with insatiable thirst, could not cure itself of this addiction, and so its wealth was transferred to other nations that did not always wish it well.
 Wherefore the balance of power in the world was altered in grievous ways, and new centers of authority arose, and they were no more persuaded by democracy than was the Pharaoh.
 For Bush ruled over the whole nation, and so sure was he of his righteousness that he did neglect the costs of wanton consumption. And he believed that if the Lord created fossil fuel, fossil fuel must flow without end, as surely as the grape will yield wine.
 Therefore, in the seventh year after the fall, with 1,126 of the slain still unidentified, their very beings rendered unto dust, their souls inhabiting the air of New York, it seemed that one nation had become two; and loss, far from unifying the people, had sundered the nation.
 For the rich, granted tax breaks more generous than any blessing, grew richer, and incomes in the middle ceased to rise, and workers saw jobs leaving the land for that region called Asia. And some fought wars while others shopped; and some got foreclosed while others got clothes. And still Bush spake but few listened.
 Behold, so it was in the seventh year, and it seemed that America was doubly smitten, from without and within.
 And, lo, a strange thing did come to pass. For as surely as the seasons do alternate, so the ruler and party that have brought woe to a nation must give way to others who can lead their people to plenty. How can the weary, flogged ass bear honey and balm and almonds and myrrh?
 Yet many Americans believed the exhausted beast could still provide bounty. They did hold that a people called the French was to blame. They did accuse a creation called the United Nations. They did curse the ungodly sophisticates of Gotham and Hollywood and sinful Chicago; and, lo, they proclaimed God was on their side, and carried a gun, and Darwin was bunk, and truth resided in Alaska.
 For Bush ruled over the whole nation and so sure was he of his righteousness that he did foster division until it raged like a plague. Each tribe sent pestilence on the other. 
 And in the seventh year after the fall, the dust and debris of the towers cleared. And it became plain at last what had been wrought -- but not how the damage would be undone. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (76%); TOXIC ASSETS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); BUDGETS (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (68%); HOUSING BUBBLE (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%); TRAINS (50%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



271 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate Woes Spread To China

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Keith Bradsher added additional reporting from Hong Kong. Hilda Wang contributed reporting.

DATELINE: GUANGZHOU, China 

 BODY:
China has joined the United States, Britain, Spain and others on the list of nations suffering a real estate decline.
 Although the last national statistics showed single-digit growth from July 2007 to July 2008 in the average price of commercial and residential real estate, real estate brokers say prices are down from peaks reached earlier this year, while the number of transactions has plunged.
 This downturn comes as the growth rate of Chinese exports has slowed -- sharply in yuan terms -- and stock markets have plummeted. The confluence of events has resulted in what economists describe as a deceleration in China's economic growth -- although at nearly 10 percent it remains the envy of many nations.
 Brokers say that sales volumes first dropped precipitously here in southeastern China, and then the decline spread across the country. Faced with few buyers, sellers started cutting their prices for residential and commercial real estate. 
 In some neighborhoods in the southeast, prices have dropped by 10 to 40 percent.
 In other parts of the country, transactions have fallen, but prices have only started to follow. For instance, the number of home sales has plunged by two-thirds in Harbin in the northeast, though prices are down as little as 4 percent from the same period last year. 
 ''People are thinking more carefully and taking much longer before they decide to buy or not to buy property,'' said Hwang Sha, a real estate broker in Xiamen in east-central China.
 Cities deep in China's interior are least affected. Dan Yian, a real estate agent in Chongqing, the largest city in southwestern China, said that the volume of housing transactions there had slowed by 20 to 30 percent so far this year. But prices have not yet fallen from a stable level of $730 a square meter, or 10.76 square feet, which works out to nearly $66,000 for a typical apartment of about 970 square feet.
 Export-dependent coastal cities in mainland China have had the steepest downturns in their real estate markets. Some of those problems are starting to make ripples elsewhere in Asia.
 Freddy Wu, the chief executive of Hong Kong Property Services, said his real estate agency had seen mainland investors default in recent months on a tenth of their purchases of Hong Kong apartments, forfeiting the down payments that they made. 
 ''A lot of investors from China have their cash tied up in the mainland stock market and in mainland real estate, so they would rather take a loss now,'' instead of being forced to sell mainland investments at a loss to come up with the cash to complete purchases in Hong Kong, Mr. Wu said.
 The skylines of Chinese cities remain dotted with cranes. But Ralph J. Gerson, the executive vice president of Guardian Industries, the largest American glass-making company and the world's third-largest, said that demand was rising less rapidly in China for the company's high-tech insulated glass for modern office buildings.
 ''It used to be booming, and now it's growing at a slower pace,'' he said. Fresh evidence of broader economic problems in China came on Wednesday as the government released monthly statistics. Growth in imports and in fixed-asset investments slowed. Inflation dropped sharply at the consumer level, to 4.9 percent in August from 6.3 percent in July.
 But unlike the subprime meltdown in the United States, and the resulting credit crisis, weaknesses in China's real estate market do not at this point appear to pose a threat to the vitality or stability of the financial system.
 One reason is that Chinese banks require down payments of at least 30 percent, giving banks an ample cushion of cash against losses. American banks frequently did not require down payments. Foreclosures are also rare here, and many Chinese still pay cash for their homes, particularly in rural areas.
 Leo Wah, a Chinese banking analyst for Moody's, said that Chinese banks could weather the decline in real estate prices, but cautioned that they could face more challenges if economic troubles spread.
 ''We do not believe that it would cause a serious problem, but if property prices fall some more, it won't be the only sector that has problems,'' he said. 
 Real estate difficulties pose a dilemma for China's leaders because they coincide with a two-thirds drop in share prices on the Shanghai stock market since the market's high last October. The two together could produce a negative effect, causing Chinese consumers to feel poorer and to reduce spending.
 The most recent national data from the government shows that the average price for all residential and commercial real estate was 7 percent higher in July than a year earlier. But brokers across China say that within that period, prices peaked in many markets -- either at the end of last year or at various times this year -- and have slid since. The stocks of real estate developers have plunged, too. China Vanke, the country's biggest publicly traded developer, reported on Tuesday that its sales had plummeted in August by 35 percent from a year earlier.
 The real estate decline is affecting ordinary Chinese, too. Perhaps most consequential is the emerging view, apparent on blogs and in interviews, that apartments and houses, like shares on the declining Shanghai stock market, are no longer a certain path to prosperity.
 Lin Bin, a 48-year-old insurance saleswoman who lives in Guangzhou, said the 1,000-square-foot, three-bedroom apartment she bought here in 2002 was still worth more than she paid in 2002. But she said she had lost two-thirds of the $4,400 she put into the stock market a year ago and worried that the housing market might be next.
 ''I'm not contemplating buying a second home as an investment because I hear that stock market and housing prices will continue to fall through next year,'' she said while shopping recently.
 Part of the problem is a severe credit squeeze. Through last winter, China's central bank repeatedly raised the amount of capital it required Chinese commercial banks to deposit with it. The goal was to slow bank lending and control inflation. The commercial banks responded by continuing to lend to big corporate customers, most of them state-owned or at least state-controlled, while reining in other lending.
 Central bank data shows that total loans to households plummeted by a third from March to July of this year. The bulk of these loans are mortgages because Chinese shoppers, even car buyers, use mostly cash. 
 ''It's collapsing; it's unbelievable, and most of it is from mortgages -- I don't see how the housing sector is going at all,'' said Nicholas R. Lardy, a specialist in Chinese finance at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.
 He added that the decline was so precipitous that it had to reflect weaker demand for housing, and not just regulatory restrictions on credit.
 To increase lending may be difficult now. The central bank needs ever greater reserves from commercial banks to buy dollars and prevent China's currency from rising against the dollar, which could cause China's exports to slow further.
 China's trade surplus set a record of $28.7 billion in August, the government announced on Wednesday, mainly because of an unexpected slowdown in the growth of imports. Slower growth of imports is a common sign of a weakening economy.
 Assessing national trends in Chinese real estate is often difficult because of long lags in the data. Real estate brokers say prices are holding up better for homes in prime locations than in outlying areas. Top-quality commercial buildings are faring better than older buildings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Visitors to a real estate show in Xian, China, view a model of a high-rise apartments. Sale prices have begun falling from a peak in July and the number of transactions has dropped sharply.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHINA PHOTOS/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. C4) CHART: Heading Downhill: The increase in the real estate market in China slowed sharply over the summer, and brokers say property prices are now falling in many cities.(Source: National Bureau of Statistics, via CEIC data) Chart details line graph. (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHONGQING, CHINA (79%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (59%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SHAANXI, CHINA (59%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (59%); HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (59%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



272 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Thai Crisis Shifts to Political Bargaining

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: BANGKOK 

 BODY:
Thai politics was consumed by hard political bargaining Wednesday, a day after Prime Minister Samak Sundaravej was convicted in court and removed from office after receiving money for televised cooking demonstrations.
 His party immediately said it would nominate him to succeed himself in office when a new prime minister is chosen Friday. But that support has been weakening and other contenders have emerged from both within and outside the ruling six-party coalition.
 Whatever the outcome, there was no sign that a damaging anti-government protest that has spread to students and labor unions was ending.
 More than an attack on the sitting government, the protests grow out of deep political and social divides that have hardened over the past three years and threaten the stability of Thailand. 
 The protesters who are now camped in the mud at Government House represent the latest turn in a long-running struggle between democratic ideals and a traditional, hierarchical society that feels disenfranchised by democratic change.
 This time, whatever the outcome of the confrontation, analysts say democracy is likely to suffer.
 Mr. Samak's government was elected last December and asserts that democracy is on its side. But it is an extension of the authoritarian model of former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra, who worked to weaken democratic checks and balances during his five-year tenure.
 Mr. Thaksin was ousted in a coup in September 2006 and is now in London, where he is seeking political asylum to evade corruption cases here that he says are politically motivated. His personality and his money still dominate Thai politics, even from exile, and much of the anger of the protesters is directed at him.
 The protesters call themselves the People's Alliance for Democracy, or P.A.D. But in fact they are raising a cry that goes back more than a century that Thailand is not ''ready for democracy.'' They want to replace the country's elected Parliament with a mostly appointed body in which power would run top-down, as it does in traditional Thai society.
 ''The P.A.D. is a variation of the deep-rooted hierarchical society,'' said Thongchai Winichakul, a professor of Southeast Asian history at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. ''In a nutshell it's a kind of distrust of the people.''
 He added: ''You can find this idea beginning in the late 19th century, when King Chulalongkorn said Thai people do not want democracy, that Thai people trust the king.
 ''Throughout all the years that kind of idea remained,'' Mr. Thongchai said. '''People are not ready.'''
 The protests began in late 2005 as anti-Thaksin demonstrations that paved the way for the coup that ousted him two years ago. They resumed in May after the current pro-Thaksin government took office, and escalated on Aug. 26 with a takeover of the grounds of the prime minister's office.
 They have been largely non-violent and the military has pledged not to use force to disperse them, even after Mr. Samak declared a state of emergency early last week.
 In an editorial Wednesday, Matichon, one of Thailand's leading dailies, warned that returning Mr. Samak to office could touch off a new wave of anger. ''Reappointing Samak will only widen the rift in society and risk leading the country into chaos and a bloodbath,'' it said.
 The protesters are a mix of royalist elites, generals and businessmen with some liberal democrats, students and trade unionists, some of whom are united only by their opposition to the pro-Thaksin government.
 At its core, the People's Alliance would move Thailand away from the basic democratic principle of one man, one vote, said Prajak Kongkeerati, a leading political scientist at Thammasat University.
 ''Many Thai elite don't believe in that,'' he said. ''We are really a hierarchical society.''
 The People's Alliance would return the country to a 20-year-old model of ''semi-democracy'' in which the bureaucracy and the military have a role in politics and businessmen share a voice with elected representatives, Mr. Prajak said.
 This political structure has deepened the divide in Thailand between those who have and those who do not, he said. 
 ''We can say that every government has a policy platform that has an urban bias,'' Mr. Prajak said. ''So when elections come, they court the support of the rural vote. But when they are in power they formulate policy that favors the urban and industrial sector.''
 As Thailand has surged forward economically over the past two decades, many of the fruits of growth and globalization have not reached beyond Bangkok, perpetuating the disparity.
 Mr. Thaksin placed the poor at the center of his electoral strategy with populist policies like low-cost health care and debt forgiveness. The under-represented poor found their voice in voting for him, creating an overwhelming electoral majority that threatened the primacy of the Bangkok-based establishment.
 This is one reason the anti-government forces are finding that democracy no longer works for them and are seeking other routes to power.
 Their movement amounts to ''a retreat from the trajectory of change of the past 15 years,'' said Chris Baker, a British historian and author of books on Thailand.
 Almost absent from today's debate, he said, is a strong liberal tradition that has been the driving force for democratic change for the past century. The difference now is that this protest movement does not seek to improve the democratic system but to replace it.
 ''We used to chant the mantra of elections all the time,'' said Sondhi Limthongkul, a publisher who is one of the leaders of the protests. 
 ''Now elections in Thailand lead to a very shabby democracy.''
 Thailand has been a constitutional monarchy since 1932 but democracy has ridden a roller coaster of 18 coups and 18 constitutions. 
 Elected governments were mostly unstable coalitions of feuding parties, and until Mr. Thaksin's five-year tenure, none had been elected to a second term.
 As the current confrontation continues, a central question is whether the military will stage another coup with a claim that it is restoring order, despite a promise by the army chief, Gen. Anupong Paochinda, that this would not happen.
 If the situation becomes critical, many Thais hope King Bhumibol Adulyadej will intervene as he has several times over the years to defuse confrontations. The king stands above the fray of politics, but he is deeply revered and his word is the authority of last resort in a country that has still not found its political footing.
 His personality is the unifying force of Thai society and the core of Thai identity. No successor will be able to command the devotion and moral influence that he has built up over 62 years on the throne. 
 The king is 80 years old and in poor health, and one issue that hovers over Thai politics is what will happen once he is gone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); COUPS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); HISTORY (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); CORRUPTION (70%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (69%); LABOR UNIONS (55%)

PERSON: SAMAK SUNDARAVEJ (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) THAILAND (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



273 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: New York's Great Big Party for Technoheads

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

 BODY:
An empty lot in Coney Island is not the likeliest place for an electronic music festival. But then New York City isn't the likeliest place for an electronic music festival either. For years the tightly knit collection of techno fans here has complained that their scene is underrepresented, with only a few regularly scheduled club nights dedicated to the kind of minimalist beats that often fill stadiums in Europe. 
 This weekend a pair of underground promoters will try to prove that the city can support its own mini version of Mutek, the annual electronic music and ''digital creativity'' festival in Montreal, or Movement, a similar event in Detroit. The Minitek Festival, scheduled to run Friday through Sunday, will have daytime shows in a tented space within screaming distance of the Cyclone, and nightly parties at the Penn Plaza in Midtown Manhattan. (A schedule is at minitekfestival.com.) 
 The D.J. lineup is impressive: more than 40 from around the world, including superstars like the Canadian innovator Richie Hawtin; M.A.N.D.Y., the Berlin duo; and the indie favorite Matthew Dear. It is an ambitious undertaking, offering not only music but also new technology, art installations and workshops in hopes of attracting a broader audience. Considering that its founders, Jenny Tan and Daniele Laudonio, are not professional event organizers, it may be something of a stretch.
 ''Minitek is, for us, a playground to try out new things,'' Ms. Tan said a week before the festival was due to start. ''We don't know if it will work or if people will understand everything.'' 
 Mr. Hawtin, who is booked as the final act on the Coney Island stage on Sunday, was clear-eyed about the challenge: ''We're not talking about Spain or Germany or Italy, when you can put out a flier and get 10,000 people,'' he said. ''For this event to be successful, they need for sure the ground-level support of all the electronica fans in Manhattan -- and the U.S. in a way. It's a big leap.'' 
 But, he added, especially in New York the techno community is always eager for something untested. ''A lot of people in the electronic music scene started out as kids on the dance floor, having a good time, having crazy nights,'' he said. ''There's always a tendency to try to stay in touch with that feeling.''
 Though Mr. Laudonio, 29, and Ms. Tan, 27, both have day jobs -- he owns a catering company and she does economic research in Africa for a business trade publisher -- they also have plenty of nightlife experience. They met two and a half years ago at the Winter Music Conference in Miami, the biggest attraction in the United States for technoheads. 
 When Ms. Tan moved to New York a few months later, they formed a friendship and, soon enough, a partnership. Ms. Tan, who is German, vacations in Ibiza, and Mr. Laudonio, who is Italian, has been clubbing locally and globally for more than a decade. 
 Frustrated by the lack of mainstream electronic music events here -- and with an in-box of European friends -- they decided to start their own parties. Ms. Tan gave the first one in late 2006 in a lounge near her SoHo apartment, drawing about 100 people, including Mr. Laudonio, and booking the Brooklyn D.J. known as Adultnapper. Then as now, profit was not a motive; fun and community was.
 ''It was like a big birthday party,'' Mr. Laudonio said.
 By the beginning of 2007 they were booking international acts for a regular roving party, which Ms. Tan named Minimoo. ( ''We wanted it to sound like the kind of music we represented,'' minimal techno, ''and I wanted two o's in the name.'') Semisecret and held at unconventional locations like photo studios, rooftops and private loft spaces, Minimoo events earned a reputation as a low-key place for electronica freaks to let it all out (well, sort of; a cosmopolitan level of behavior was expected -- just say non to drunken come-ons). The parties remained small and underground: little in the way of press or listings, just a Web site and an invite-only e-mail list, which Ms. Tan said was closed a while ago. Mr. Laudonio added, ''You don't need to have 600 people to have a good party.'' 
 But you do need more than that to have a good festival. To attract outsiders to their scene they created an ''innovation pavilion'' for Minitek, where digital artists from Tokyo, London, Berlin, New York and Cambridge, Mass., will present video installations, interactive sound collages and ''found noise'' sculptures. They are also featuring new technology, like a wristband that works as a debit card, so dancers don't have to be cluttered with purses and wallets. 
 Ms. Tan and Mr. Laudonio said they hope to make Minitek an annual event.
 That is, if they can get through this year. Some festivalgoers are coming from as far away as Australia and South America (Minitek has an official hotel, the Pennsylvania), and on Friday, Ms. Tan said she expected several thousand all told. But without professional event expertise, securing financing was difficult from the start. Though they were eventually able to line up a few sponsors, on Monday Ms. Tan sent out an e-mail message asking Minimoo subscribers to come to a pre-party and buy their tickets early to keep the festival afloat. ''Today we hit a crunchy moment, and as much as we wanted to avoid it, we will have to turn to you, dear mooers, to make sure we can make it through the last 4 days,'' she wrote, offering discounts. (The regular rate is $105 for a weekend pass, $45 for a day pass and $40 for a night pass.) 
 In the meantime Ms. Tan and Mr. Laudonio financed nearly all of Minitek out of their own pockets; if it failed, the Minimoo parties would be in jeopardy too. ''That would break our heart,'' Ms. Tan wrote.
 They have 5,000 digital wristbands. Will they have that many people? 
 ''Fingers crossed,'' Ms. Tan said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Daniele Laudonio, one of the promoters, at the site in Coney Island where daytime Minitek events will be held this weekend.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KELLY SHIMODA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (92%); MUSIC (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); PUBLISHING (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); CATERING SERVICES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (77%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); CANADA (79%); SPAIN (77%); GERMANY (77%); AFRICA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



274 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; FITNESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: When Iron Is a Precious Metal

BYLINE: By CHRISTIE ASCHWANDEN

 BODY:
CONSIDER it the Jaguar of recreational athletic pursuits.
 The triathlon is a sport that has grown increasingly expensive in the last five years. Entry fees for the sport's premier Ironman-branded events have risen 40 percent since 2003. But even at $525 for a standard Ironman entry, the price has not put a dent in demand.
 In July, thousands of people traveled to Lake Placid, N.Y., to wait in line to register for an Ironman that will take place there next summer. The 2,200 entries were snapped up in just a few hours, before online registration had even begun. 
 While a handful of Ironman-branded triathlons still may take days or weeks to fill, the mad rush for entries to the most popular ones (the Lake Placid event and the Ironman Canada) means that would-be racers must line up on-site usually a year before the event to secure a spot. 
 In the last decade, the triathlon has become an obsession for athletic multitaskers with disposable income -- a luxury hobby that does not seem to lose its luster even in an economic downturn.
 ''It's a recession-proof thing,'' said Richard Izzo, 42, the president of the Westchester Triathlon Club. ''The people who do this sport are wealthy type-A personalities.'' 
 Participants in Ironman-branded events report an average household income of $161,000, according to the World Triathlon Corporation, which licenses the Ironman brand.
 A recent post about race costs on the message board of Slowtwitch.com elicited 32 responses. Some said that they planned to stick to short, relatively inexpensive races, choose used instead of new gear, or race closer to home. But most posters said they would sacrifice triathlon expenses only as a last resort. 
 ''I only let my kids eat once a day to save on groceries,'' one person joked. ''It takes a lot to feed a triathlete during the season and someone has to cut back!''
 While anyone can hold an Ironman-distance triathlon (a 2.4-mile swim, 112-mile bike ride and 26.2-mile marathon), only races that pay a licensing fee can use the official Ironman name. 
 One race organizer discovered this in 2006 when he received a cease-and-desist order from the World Triathlon Corporation demanding that the words ''Iron race'' or ''Iron-distance'' be removed from a race he planned in New York City.
 ''That event was shut down due to the trademark infringement,'' said Blair LaHaye, the communications director for World Triathlon Corporation, which licenses the Ironman brand.
 What began three decades ago in Hawaii as a humble wager to determine the fittest among a group of friends has grown into an international series of 22 Ironman events and 31 half-Ironman races, dubbed 70.3 events (for the races' mileage) when branded with the Ironman name.
 Today the Ironman logo (a symbol called M-dot) can be found on baby strollers, suitcases, organic Kona coffee and even tattooed on the bodies of race finishers. 
 Entry slots for the original Hawaiian Ironman race (now called the Ford Ironman World Championship, to be held Oct. 11) are so coveted that last year, more than 8,000 people entered a lottery for 200 slots; the handful of entries sold through a race-sponsored charity auction on eBay regularly go for more than $40,000 each.
 The lottery and auction are the only ways for athletes who are not the fastest in their age group to race the Kona event; organizers reserve most of the 1,800 entries for athletes who qualify through a top result in another branded event.
 Races without the M-dot logo generally cost about $300 versus $525 and don't garner high demand.
 ''I don't know of one that sells out in panic mode,'' said Mike Greer, the founder of the Ironman 70.3 Buffalo Springs Lake in Lubbock, Tex., and a three-time Ironman Hawaii finisher. ''When you spend a year training for something, you want all the hoopla. You want the M-dot.'' 
 This year more than 88,000 people will take part in M-dot races worldwide, up from 40,000 in 2003.
 ''There seems to be no end in sight to the number of Ironman events that people will support,'' said Jonathan Pauley, 46, a race director at Renegade Racing and Make-U-Fit Productions in Irvine, Calif., who has finished 12 Ironmans.
 Yet, as more people register for triathlons, fees have risen, leaving some racers feeling gouged.
 ''With the influx of triathletes in the past few years, race directors know they'll fill their races and raise the entry fees accordingly,'' said Mike Reedell, 30, a triathlete from Coatesville, Pa. 
 Wendy Bliss, 41, who works in Seattle's biotech industry and competed in the 2006 Ironman Canada, said of the $500 Ironman registration fees: ''It's my choice to enter and train for a race, so I don't feel I have any reason to complain.''
 RACE directors argue that rising costs are a driving factor behind the hike in fees.
 Tom Cotton, a race organizer with Firstwave Events in Los Gatos, Calif., said that over the last few years, his budgets have increased by 50 to 100 percent, mostly because of city, county and state agency fees.
 ''California State Parks now wants 25 percent of the gross,'' he said. ''Police overtime has doubled in one city I work in.''
 Organizers of M-dot races must also pay licensing fees. ''I can't reveal the Ironman licensing fee because of my contract,'' Mr. Greer said. ''But it has gone up considerably.'' 
 Even so, it's a price he is more than willing to pay. Without the M-dot logo and its promotional muscle, Mr. Greer estimates he might have had 700 racers, rather than this year's 1,700 registrants for his half-Ironman race. 
 Still, some say that the services and experiences offered by top-dollar races do not justify the cost.
 ''The race courses are public roads that I can ride for free any day of the year,'' said Hans Lund, an engineer from Bellevue, Wash., who has competed in one Ironman and several half-Ironman events. ''The aid stations are really only $8 worth of Gatorade and gel for the entire race per person, and they're manned by volunteers.'' 
 Alternative Race Routes
 THE economic slump has not put a dent in the demand for triathlon entries, but it has left some racers rethinking their choices.
 ''Instead of racing in some of the destination races in California or Hawaii, athletes seem to be choosing to race a little closer to home,'' said Travis Siehndel, the president of the DC Triathlon Club, which has 850 members.
 Entry fees are generally more expensive the longer the triathlon. At Trifinder.com you can search for triathlons by distance or location, and New York Triathlon posts a calendar at NYTRI.org.
 Here are some late-season triathlons that still had entry slots on Wednesday. 
 TOUGHMAN TRIATHLON $275 for a half-Ironman race in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., on Sept. 21. westchestertoughman.com.
 CHESAPEAKEMAN ULTRA TRIATHLON $350 for an Ironman-distance race (2.4-mile swim, 112-mile bike, 26.2-mile run) in Cambridge, Md., on Sept. 27. tricolumbia.org/ChesapeakeMan
 GREAT FLORIDIAN TRIATHLON $350 for a Ironman-distance race in Clermont, Fla., on Oct. 25. greatfloridian.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PRICEY: Even at $525, slots sell out for Ironman races with the M-dot logo (on the banner above). (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARND WIEGMANN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); RUNNING (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); TRADEMARK LAW (75%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (75%); ATHLETES (73%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (72%); TRADEMARKS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); MARATHONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (52%); TRADEMARK INFRINGEMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%) HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



275 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Federal Loans, Automakers Cite Alternative-Energy Goals

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
A proposed $25 billion federal loan program to help retool the American auto industry would speed the development of electric cars and other alternative-fuel vehicles, a Chrysler executive said Wednesday. 
 ''It's a way for us to accelerate technology so you can get it in the hands of people faster and so they can afford it,'' Chrysler's vice chairman, James E. Press, said at an industry event.
 His comments came as Congressional leaders began discussions on whether to pay for the loan program that was created last year as part of legislation requiring a 40 percent increase in fuel economy.
 While automakers appear to have backed off the efforts to increase the loans to $50 billion, Detroit executives are becoming more specific in their comments regarding how the funds would be spent.
 Mr. Press said that Chrysler would probably apply for loans to augment its existing plans for electric vehicles, cleaner engines and new manufacturing systems.
 ''I think it will allow everybody to bring electric cars, plug-in electric cars, and hybrid cars to market sooner,'' he said.
 A spokesman for General Motors said that the company's coming Chevrolet Volt electric model would be a prime candidate for federal dollars.
 ''Certainly a program like the Volt would qualify under the guidelines,'' said Greg Martin of General Motors.
 Detroit automakers have so far been lobbying legislators privately to build support for the loans.
 But with only a three-week legislative session in which to assure financing for the loan program, the auto companies are gearing up for a more public push.
 ''We need to show that if we have access to this capital, we can and will improve fuel economy faster,'' said Bruce Andrews, vice president for government affairs at Ford Motor.
 House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, said Tuesday that the loan plan was a high priority and could be included in any of several bills, like an energy package, an economic stimulus proposal or an overall appropriations bill.
 ''We think it has a strong chance of passing,'' said Nate Bailey, a spokesman for Joe Knollenberg, Republican representative of Michigan. ''We're confident we can get this done before Congress goes on recess.''
 Automakers had been advancing the idea of expanding the package from $25 billion to a multiyear, $50-billion program, but have pulled back.
 ''The $50 billion is still in play, but we have to be realistic about what we can expect to be approved in a condensed, three-week legislative session,'' said Mr. Martin of G.M.
 G.M.'s chairman, Rick Wagoner, is expected to include an appeal for the loan program as part of his remarks Friday to a Senate panel on energy independence. Besides tying the loans to specific alternative-fuel projects, automakers are also saying the loan program could be a critical source of money for car battery research in the United States.
 Mr. Press said Wednesday that the concentration of battery research in Asia could leave American consumers beholden to others in the same way that they rely on foreign oil.
 ''Are we going to let other countries develop these batteries, and then we're going to go buy from them?'' Mr. Press said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: General Motors says federal dollars could help advance its electric Chevrolet Volt, whose chassis was on display in January.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ETHAN MILLER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (73%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (75%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (75%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (56%); NANCY PELOSI (55%); JOE KNOLLENBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



276 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: Bank of America Will Buy Back Securities

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Bank of America Corporation said Wednesday that it would buy back about $4.5 billion in auction-rate securities held by roughly 5,500 customers nationwide as part of a settlement agreement with Massachusetts regulators. 
 The auction-rate securities market involved investors buying and selling instruments that resembled corporate debt, except the interest rates were reset at regular auctions, some as frequently as once a week. The market for the securities collapsed in February.
 The bank said it continued to cooperate fully with investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York attorney general's office.
 ''The S.E.C. division of enforcement expects to soon announce the terms of a preliminary settlement with Bank of America that results from our ongoing auction-rate securities investigations,'' Linda Chatman Thomsen, director of the S.E.C.'s enforcement division, said in a statement.
 Bank of America joins eight other big investment banks that have agreed to buy back a total of more than $50 billion of the securities.
 The bank's shares closed 12 cents lower on Wednesday, at $32.40.
 Under the agreement with Massachusetts regulators, Bank of America will buy back securities at the value at which customers purchased them. The offer applies to individual investors and trusts benefiting individuals that purchased auction-rate securities before Feb. 11, and businesses with account values up to $10 million and charities with account values up to $25 million.
 The repurchase program will begin Oct. 1 and remain open through the end of the year.
 A spokesman for Bank of America, Jerry Dubrowski, said, ''We fully recognize the effect that the unprecedented market conditions have had on our clients, and we appreciate their patience as we worked with the regulators to reach an agreement that would provide liquidity relief to the investors.''
 Bank of America said it expected to record a pretax charge of about $275 million in connection with the buy-back program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (98%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (98%); BAC (LSE) (98%); 8648 (TSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



277 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Tapes Trace the Evolution of bin Laden From Militant to Global Threat

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

 BODY:
A large cache of audio tapes left behind at Osama bin Laden's headquarters in Kandahar, Afghanistan, in 2001 was released Wednesday, offering a portrait of his gradual transformation from Saudi militant to global threat and opening a window on the daily lives of men recruited for jihad. 
 While Mr. bin Laden's evolution from opposing Saudi Arabia's ruling dynasty to running an international terrorist organization has been detailed before, said Flagg Miller, an assistant professor at the University of California, Davis, who spent five years translating the tapes, the recordings provide a more spontaneous look at Al Qaeda than what is available through the carefully choreographed messages it releases. 
 ''These are back-room conversations of Al Qaeda's key operatives as well as fresh or potential recruits who are trying to figure out what the heck is going on and what their role in it is,'' Mr. Miller said.
 On one tape, a dull roar growing louder stumped Mr. Miller. Finally he discovered it was the sound of a gas stove being used by low-level recruits cooking breakfast with a famous Egyptian-born cleric, Abu Hamza al-Masri, now in a British prison fighting extradition to the United States on terrorism charges. The cleric tried to inspire them by comparing frying eggs to fighting jihad. 
 ''These small moments tell us what the core of being on jihad was like,'' said Mr. Miller, who teaches religious studies. ''It is boring. While they are waiting, they create ways to make jihad urgent and imminent, so they develop this fanciful narrative comparing breakfast to going out on a raid.''
 Mr. Miller released his findings in Davis, Calif., with a more complete explanation scheduled to be published in the October edition of the Journal of Language and Communication. 
 Though Mr. bin Laden's general biography has been studied, experts said, ample room exists for a more detailed portrait of his success as a recruiter. 
 ''One of the reasons that we are in the fix that we are in at the moment is because we haven't taken the measure of the man,'' said Michael Scheuer, who left the C.I.A. in 2004 and while there worked in the special unit that focused on Mr. bin Laden. ''The U.S. government sees him as a nihilistic gangster, so they are not interested in finding out that he has any kind of talent.'' 
 Mr. Scheuer said that while he was at the C.I.A. he knew of only one recording of Mr. bin Laden from the 1980s. Mr. Miller worked on three. 
 Farhana Ali, a terrorism expert at the RAND Corporation who has spent years studying Mr. bin Laden's statements, said Al Qaeda's propaganda recordings had been well-documented since 2001. That included scrutinizing Mr. bin Laden's use of tribal poetry, Koranic references and mystical allusions. 
 Experts said they would have to see Mr. Miller's work before concluding how much was new. But they said past translation work had typically put priority on national security threats, like whether the tapes revealed anything about Mr. bin Laden's whereabouts. 
 The tapes of speeches, sermons and lectures, numbering more than 1,500, were discovered by CNN in Afghanistan in 2001. They eventually ended up at Williams College and then Yale. They included hundreds of sermons by Islamic scholars, many of them radical, as well as recordings of the give and take of training discussions. 
 The cache included at least 20 tapes of Mr. bin Laden speaking, although it is not clear where or when all of them were made. The first of them start around 1988 and the last are from 2000. They were found after Al Qaeda's leadership fled its Kandahar headquarters first for Tora Bora and then for parts not entirely known. One taped lecture, which was not by Mr. bin Laden, roots the idea of establishing flexible border redoubts like Tora Bora in Islamic philosophy. 
 The tapes of Mr. bin Laden speaking break down into three distinctive periods. In the late 1980s, he was recruiting for the jihad against the Soviets in Afghanistan, tailoring his standard stump speech for hometown audiences all around his native Saudi Arabia. 
 By the mid-1990s, that changed. The Soviets had withdrawn from Afghanistan and Mr. bin Laden shifted focus to the American presence in the Persian Gulf as an affront to Muslims. He told a parable from the Koran chapter called ''The Elephants,'' when an Abyssinian Christian army tried to capture what is now the holy Kaaba shrine in Mecca using the best war technology of the era. 
 The Arabs defeated the invaders through sheer tenacity and a miracle: birds panicked the elephants by dropping stones from their beaks. To Mr. bin Laden, the episode exemplified Arab tribes uniting against a common enemy. ''It was a time of chivalry and honor and generosity and manliness and the apex of tribalism,'' Mr. Miller said, even if Islam had not yet arrived. 
 By 1999, the emphasis on religious texts and tribal poetry was minimized, replaced by a fervent pitch to fight the United States. The number of American troops stationed in the Middle East was detailed as a ''chicken'' count. At this point his lectures were given official titles, like ''The Presence of the Crusader Jewish Occupation in the Heart of the Islamic World.'' 
 Mr. bin Laden is noted as a stickler for Arabic grammar and rhetorical flourishes. One tape by a nonnative speaker butchering the language seemed to reflect his prejudices. Mr. Miller said it was marked ''gheir saleh,'' Arabic for ''unpleasant.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); AL-QAEDA (91%); TERRORISM (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); MEN (77%); EXTRADITION (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); RELIGION (66%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (64%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (62%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



278 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Young Jeezy Tops Chart

BYLINE: Compiled by JULIE BLOOM

 BODY:
Young Jeezy is No. 1 on this week's Billboard album chart with his third release, ''The Recession'' (Def Jam), on which the Atlanta rapper does some campaigning for Barack Obama but does more for himself: ''It's a recession, everybody broke,'' he says on the title track, ''so I just came back to give everybody hope.'' ''The Recession'' sold 260,000 copies in its first week out, according to Nielsen SoundScan. New Kids on the Block, the boy band of 1980s vintage, whose members are now nearing 40, reached No. 2 with 95,000 sales of its reunion album, ''The Block'' (Interscope). ''LAX'' (Geffen), by the Los Angeles rapper the Game, is No. 3, Kid Rock's ''Rock N Roll Jesus'' (Atlantic) is No. 4, and last week's top seller, Slipknot's ''All Hope Is Gone'' (Roadrunner), dropped to No. 5. Underoath, a Christian metal band from Florida, opened at No. 8 with its sixth record, ''Lost in the Sound of Separation'' (Solid State/Tooth & Nail), and another Christian artist, the singer Chris Tomlin, bowed at No. 9 with his new release, ''Hello Love'' (Sixsteprecords). BEN SISARIO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAP MUSIC (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



279 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Style Desk; FASHION REVIEW; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Bankable Glamour From Kors

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN

 BODY:
Michael Kors got down to business on Wednesday, sending out a smart spring collection that probably saved a few retail chiefs from watching their profits further erode. And Narciso Rodriguez, in a cooler mood, lightened up his minimalist line with stripes and offbeat prints.
 Wherever Mr. Kors plants his oar -- Portofino, Malibu -- the results are inevitably and hopelessly glamorous. And with the economy entering what appears to be a long stew, Mr. Kors's sporty American glamour seems highly bankable. And this time he has found just the right contemporary looks. The Beach Boys were on the sound system in the Bryant Park tents, but that's about as nostalgic as the show got. 
 Just as in Mr. Rodgriguez's show on Tuesday night, Mr. Kors offered a fresh take on stripes, opening with a belted tunic in royal blue and black striped cashmere over black stretch-wool shorts. Despite the surf theme, and some adorable two-piece swimsuits, the stripes were more graphic than nautical, and were complemented by bold polka-dots and gingham checks. So the style can be worn anywhere.
 In every way the collection seemed thought out, full of trends like clam-digger pants and metallic fabrics as well as more-sophisticated pieces. The best of these were a pair of dresses -- one in red gingham silk and the other in a lightweight navy wool pinstripe -- that were cut so that the hem rose on one leg. A number of designers have shown variations on the hiked skirt, including Marc Jacobs and Mr. Rodriguez. There was also a style at Kors with a spilling top in white silk. It's a great look.
 Overlapping stripes of electrical tape gave Mr. Rodriguez the pattern for graphic black-and-white prints. They were rendered as a slim cotton skirt shown with a sharply notched black canvas jacket, and skinny print trousers worn with a clean, tailored jacket. Mr. Rodriguez evoked the line and dot theme in other sexy ways -- with black stripes caging a slim dress of burnt coral silk or as a bandeau top under a lean black linen jacket.
 The collection was as fresh-looking as it was varied. Jackets were generally cropped and close to the body, usually with a curving line. But the newness was really in the dresses, in the waves of stripes over a silk dress with black chiffon shoulders and a floaty, sheer back.
 Let's imagine that Kate and Laura Mulleavy's Rodarte line was designed by Alix Gres, the Paris couturier who set the postwar romantics straight with her modernist pleated dresses. What would Alix do? It's an interesting exercise to compare the working methods of two contemporary designers, widely hailed for their ''vision,'' with a woman of unquestioned genius. What made Madame Gres exceptional?
 For one thing, she held a set of beliefs about women. She designed for them, not for editors or abstract notions. Though she was a tyrant in her fashion, she always had women in her sights. This is not the case with the Mulleavy sisters, at least this season. Their latest collection consists of pleated skirts and body-conscious mesh tops and slick pants, all in monochromatic Pan-Cake hues with laser-cut leggings and nasty gold platforms. The mood is tough -- Valkyries in chiffon -- and the style clipped and pasted from other designers, mainly Azzedine Alaia.
 But that's not the real problem. It's that the Mulleavys didn't seem to have a woman in mind when they put together these clothes, as they plainly did when they first showed their lovely, broken-down knits. It was as if their interest lay solely in achieving an effect with an object.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MICHAEL KORS: An off-the-shoulder dress in gingham silk faille, above left. Above, a chevron-stripe swimsuit. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ELIZABETH LIPPMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
NARCISO RODRIGUEZ A slim cotton print skirt and loose silk top. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 RODARTE: A pleated skirt with a chiffon top and laser-cut leggings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEATRICE DE GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); HAUTE COUTURE (78%); HIKING (74%); FABRICS (68%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



280 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: On 9/11, Reflections on Terrorism

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''On Nov. 4, Remember 9/11,'' by Jeffrey Goldberg (Op-Ed, Sept. 9):
 I agree that our highest national priority, and that of our two presidential candidates, should be to protect America from what some believe is a ''nearly inevitable'' nuclear terrorist attack. 
 But I disagree with Mr. Goldberg's formula to accomplish this, especially his statement that ''the paramount goal is not prosecution, but pre-emption.'' 
 Our current policy of pre-emption -- killing suspects by assassination or military might -- is the moral equivalent of the bully on the playground who bashes you for not liking him. It leads only to more hatred.
 Instead, we must strive patiently and systematically to capture and prosecute the plotters. For fanatics, only the humiliation of a fair, public trial, consistent with our long-held concepts of justice, that exposes them as deranged fools and subjects them to the contempt of the world can make them realize that there are consequences here on earth for their heinous acts. 
 No one is talking about being soft on terrorism. But there is a right way and a wrong way. We must choose the right one -- our survival depends on it. 
 John Perkins Pacific Palisades, Calif., Sept. 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I am saddened by Jeffrey Goldberg's supposition that protecting America from a ''nearly inevitable attack'' should be the next president's sole priority. 
 Living in New York City, one faces personal risk walking near a crane at a construction site, riding in a taxi on the way to Kennedy Airport or simply crossing a busy traffic-filled intersection. And yet we have learned to face these risks and go out and live our lives each day. 
 I believe the top priority for our next president should be a return to positive, constructive investment in America and a dismantling of the culture of terror. 
 Let's overhaul health care, restore the economy, fix the housing market and address global warming, and resist the temptation to stay inside and cower because an orange alert has been issued.
 Susan Q. Schwartz New York, Sept. 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Anyone who doesn't believe that jihadis are within reach of Pakistan's nuclear arsenal while the Iranians are hard at work perfecting a long-range delivery system is either naive or in denial. 
 Whether terrorists actually succeed in detonating such a weapon in the West or merely achieve that capability as a means for thermonuclear blackmail, the consequences will be devastating. 
 Jeffrey Goldberg's assertion that there is no other issue is correct. This is no time to be debating the success of the surge in Iraq or habeas corpus for Guantanamo detainees. 
 We could be in store for a long nuclear winter if we ignore Mr. Goldberg's forecast. How to prevent such a catastrophe is the single most important issue of the presidential campaign. 
 Peter J. Cotch Andover, Mass., Sept. 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Jeffrey Goldberg is absolutely right when he says ''nothing else matters'' when it comes to America's safety. The presidential candidate who convinces the most voters he can prevent a future terrorist attack here at home will win the election in November. 
 Right now there is a lot of talk about Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska and her coming vice-presidential debate with Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. All that chatter will fade soon enough. 
 When push comes to shove, the outcome of the 2008 race for the White House will come down to this: Will it be Senator Barack Obama or Senator John McCain whom voters trust most to keep their country and their families safe? 
 Denny Freidenrich Laguna Beach, Calif., Sept. 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In raising the question of which candidate would deter a nuclear attack, Jeffrey Goldberg misses a critical corollary: Which candidate or party would restore America's moral authority in the world? That authority has been drained by seven years of unilateralism, abnegation of treaties, extraordinary rendition and torture.
 Without moral authority, we stand little chance of obtaining the level of international cooperation, particularly among intelligence agencies, needed to corral the world's loose fissile material. 
 Nor are our prospects good for slowing Al Qaeda's recruitment of individuals willing to give their lives to destroy ours.
 Central to America's moral standing is the rule of law. For that reason, I question Mr. Goldberg's criticism of Barack Obama for praising the successful prosecution of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. 
 Honoring our tradition of lawful investigation and prosecution is one of many necessary weapons in the arsenal of combating terror. 
 Dennis Aftergut San Francisco, Sept. 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I disagree with Jeffrey Goldberg's understanding of the challenges facing the next president. And I disagree that we must choose a president by setting aside all other matters and asking only how well a candidate will protect us against nuclear terrorism. 
 The challenge for the next president will be to deter nuclear terrorism at the same time that he addresses the challenges of the economy, health care, education, the environment and the like. 
 If he knows how to deter nuclear terrorism but how to do nothing else, he will certainly be a failure.
 David Schwartz New York, Sept. 9, 2008
 The writer served from 1980 to 1986 in the State Department's Bureau of Politico-Military Affairs, focusing on nuclear weapons policy.
 To the Editor: 
 Re ''9/11 Rumors That Become Conventional Wisdom'' (Memo From Cairo, Sept. 9):
 You say that many in the Middle East believe that the United States government or Israel was behind the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 
 Perhaps we should not be too smug about ignorance in Cairo. How many Americans still seem to think that Saddam Hussein or Iran was involved in the 9/11 attacks?
 Penn Pfautz Middletown, N.J., Sept. 9, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL STOLLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); ASSASSINATION (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); HABEAS CORPUS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); HOUSING MARKET (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (57%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (86%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



281 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Saudis Vow To Maintain Oil Output

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: VIENNA 

 BODY:
Hours after suffering a rare setback in a negotiating session at OPEC's headquarters, Saudi Arabian officials assured world markets on Wednesday that they would ignore the wishes of other cartel members and continue to pump plenty of oil.
 The late-night bargaining session ended early Wednesday morning with a surprise declaration that OPEC would cut production to shore up sagging prices. Saudi negotiators publicly endorsed that position, but then spent much of Wednesday privately spreading the word that they did not feel bound by it. 
 The back-and-forth illustrated new pressures and power politics at play in the group that controls 40 percent of the world's oil production. The meeting could be a harbinger of things to come for the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries as the cartel faces its most difficult challenge in years: how to respond to falling oil prices in a weakening global economic climate. 
 The confusion surrounding this week's meeting slowed the decline in prices as oil markets struggled to understand the cartel's byzantine politics. Oil closed Wednesday at $102.58 a barrel in New York trading, a decline of 68 cents.
 After a 30 percent drop in prices since July, and with oil seemingly headed below the psychological milestone of $100 a barrel, OPEC producers are getting anxious. The cartel's president, Chakib Khelil, said the group was particularly concerned that slowing demand for oil was creating a glut in the market that might provoke a collapse in prices. 
 Still, going into the meeting, Saudi Arabia was expected to prevail in its stated goal of keeping enough oil on the market to drive prices below $100 a barrel. The Saudi view is that lowering prices moderately now will shore up the world economy and prevent a recession that would cause oil prices to collapse. The Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, described the markets as being ''well balanced'' when he arrived in Vienna.
 But after a six-hour private meeting, OPEC ministers decided to pare their production by complying strictly with targets that had been set up last year but were largely ignored. According to Mr. Khelil, who is also Algeria's oil minister, OPEC's actual production would have to be lowered by about 500,000 barrels a day within the next 40 days. 
 ''We are oversupplying the market, and we are cutting that oversupply,'' said Abdalla Salem el-Badri, the group's secretary general. ''We don't want to see these prices decline dramatically.''
 It remained unclear Wednesday exactly how the Saudis lost the argument behind closed doors. And despite the OPEC communique, it is far from clear that OPEC members will actually reduce their output. After a short night, Saudi officials were quick to reassure markets.
 ''Saudi Arabia will meet the market's demand,'' a senior OPEC delegate said. ''We will see what the market requires and we will not leave a customer without oil. The policy has not changed.'' 
 The Saudi message is to wait and see where demand is headed before eventually paring supplies. The Saudis made their strategy clear Wednesday in informal talks and briefings with some oil industry analysts and reporters, but as is their custom, they would not speak for attribution because they did not want to appear to undermine a collective OPEC decision.
 In June, King Abdullah pledged that his country would pump at full tilt to bring prices down. In August, the kingdom increased its production to 9.7 million barrels a day, the highest in three decades. Saudi Arabia is now producing around 9.5 million barrels a day, 600,000 barrels a day more than its quota. 
 ''This seems to set Saudi Arabia up as the unilateral decision-maker on output for the fall,'' said Greg Priddy, an energy analyst at Eurasia Group, in a research note. ''Clearly, other OPEC members are not going to trim their own production without Saudi Arabia returning to its quota. Saudi Arabia also seems to be eager to avoid headlines about it cutting production in advance of the U.S. elections.''
 Adding to the confusion, OPEC said that two new members, Angola and Ecuador, were given new production quotas while Indonesia, a member since 1962 that has become a net importer of oil in recent years, was suspending its membership in the organization by the end of the year. OPEC officials had trouble explaining precisely how much production would need to be cut. Mr. Badri also declined to provide new targets for each member state.
 OPEC's discordant message is a reflection of the competing policies at play within the group, which includes countries like Kuwait, Nigeria, and its newest and smallest member, Ecuador. Some countries are carefully managing their oil windfall, while others are spending freely with the expectation that prices will remain high.
 Moderate and pro-Western states like Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are aware that high energy costs are hurting demand and might push consumers to seek alternatives to oil. These countries want to see prices fall below $100 a barrel to ease political enmity against the cartel. 
 Another group, composed of OPEC's traditional price hawks, increasingly needs high prices to finance a wide range of social and military policies. Analysts say they believe that Iran and Venezuela, for example, cannot afford prices below $100 a barrel as they seek to project power in their respective regions.
 As OPEC worked to push up prices from lows reached in the late 1990s, members of the cartel all shared the same interests and were willing to leave their differences aside. But now that demand is weakening and prices are falling, some analysts say they believe that tensions within the group are resurfacing. In past years, OPEC has been notoriously bad at maintaining discipline in its ranks when prices fall. 
 The perception that OPEC was unwilling to do its part to bring down prices brought sharp criticism Wednesday from Western officials. ''We'd like to see more oil on the market, not less,'' the White House press secretary, Dana M. Perino, said at a briefing.
 The decision represents a rare case of the cartel going against the position of its biggest member. As he walked from his hotel to the OPEC headquarters on Tuesday evening, Mr. Naimi, the Saudi minister, seemed particularly proud of his country's efforts to pump as much oil as needed to push down prices. 
 ''It was hard work,'' Mr. Naimi said, strolling along the city's cobbled streets. ''The market is in a very healthy position.''
 Six hours later, Mr. Naimi left the meeting without a word of public comment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chakib Khelil, center, president of OPEC, is flanked by the cartel officials Hasan Qabazard, left, and Abdalla Salem el-Badri.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VLADIMIR WEISS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARTELS (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (69%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); AUSTRIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ALGERIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



282 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: The Next Little Thing?

BYLINE: By STEVEN KURUTZ

 BODY:
IN his 20s, Michael Janzen made pottery and lived in a cabin in rural California that he estimates was ''about the size of a two-car garage.'' After he married, he went into Web design for a bank, and now at 40 has all the trappings of a successful homeowner: in-ground pool, maid service, a yard landscaped with Japanese black pine bonsai trees. His 1,800-square-foot home in Fair Oaks, Calif., a one-story model by Streng Brothers, midcentury builders in the Eichler mold, is of a kind coveted by fans of modern design. 
 So why has Mr. Janzen spent the summer building an 80-square-foot ''tiny house'' out of free stuff he found on Craigslist? 
 There he is on nights and weekends, designing a floor plan whose dimensions are measured not in feet but inches, nailing scavenged wood pallets together for the frame, or fixing up an old trailer to serve as the foundation. The initial reaction from his wife, Julia: ''Is this a Unabomber building?'' 
 Not exactly. According to Mr. Janzen, he came to the realization that ''I don't want this life -- the life of someone who's working too hard to pay a large mortgage to live in this house.'' The catalyst, he said, was watching the value of his home plummet with the rest of the real estate market, while the time and money required to maintain the property only increased. ''The energy cost is enormous,'' he said, ''and the bigger your property gets, the more there is to do.''
 Which is why Mr. Janzen has become interested in the small house movement, whose adherents believe in minimizing one's footprint -- structural as well as carbon -- by living in spaces that are smaller than 1,000 square feet and, in some cases, smaller than 100. Tiny houses have been a fringe curiosity for a decade or more, but devotees believe the concept's time has finally arrived. 
 ''It's a very exciting moment,'' said Shay Salomon, a green builder in Tucson, Ariz., and the author of ''Little House on a Small Planet'' (Lyons Press, 2006), ''because it feels like a chapter of American history might be ending, the chapter called 'Bigger is Better.' I'm not the Gallup poll, but I hear the same story over and over: We got rid of that big house, and now I have time to see my husband. Before, we used to work all week and then we'd spend the weekend on the house.''
 Gregory Paul Johnson, a founder of the Small House Society in Iowa City, said that the notion of very small houses becoming popular was ''an absurdity'' five years ago. ''But there are so many powerful forces at work right now,'' he added, ''like rising energy costs and the mortgage crisis. I think people want small homes because they cost less to purchase, maintain, heat.'' 
 In July, Mr. Johnson, who lives in a 140-square-foot house made by the Tumbleweed Tiny House Company of Sebastopol, Calif., took to the road to promote his vision of living small, along with Jay Shafer, Tumbleweed's founder. The two men drove from Victoria, British Columbia, to San Diego, pulling Mr. Shafer's house behind them on a trailer. (Tiny houses, which rarely have foundations, are often built on trailers.) 
 Along the way they stopped to hold workshops and give (very brief) home tours. Some events drew hundreds of people. ''It seems like everybody is fascinated by the idea of living in a tiny house,'' said Mr. Shafer, who started Tumbleweed eight years ago. ''But for a long time, I was just selling the dream.'' 
 His business is still modest, but in the past year Mr. Shafer has sold five houses and 50 sets of plans, up from a yearly average of one house. The houses range in size from about 70 to nearly 800 square feet, cost $20,000 to $90,000 to build, and resemble birdhouses: boxy shape, wood siding and high, pitched roof. 
 Other builders also report increased demand. Brad Kittel, owner of Tiny Texas Houses in Luling, Tex., said he had built 10 homes this year, up from four in all of 2007. 
 In recent years, small dwellings have begun to get the high-design treatment, which could attract more people. The London-based designer Nina Tolstrup built the 388-square-foot Tiny Beach Chalet, which has drawn attention on design blogs. One of the stars of the Museum of Modern Art's current exhibit on prefabricated houses is the Micro Compact Home, a 73-square-foot cube by the British architect Richard Horden. 
 ''When you build small you can spend money on higher-quality materials,'' said Jared Volpe, a Web designer in North Ferrisburgh, Vt., who runs the blog smallhousestyle.com. Mr. Volpe said he is often amazed at how aesthetically pleasing many of the latest small homes are. In the year since he started his blog he has received increasing numbers of e-mail messages from people interested in small homes -- a trend he attributes in part to the poor economy. ''People will need to heat their 3,000-square-foot house this winter, and it's going to cost double of what it did a few years ago,'' he said.
 For Mr. Janzen, a tiny house is not an immediate solution to his frustrations with large-scale living; he has no intention of cramming his wife and young daughter into 80 square feet. Instead, he plans to use the structure as an office, or park it on his in-laws' farm as a weekend retreat, a more traditional use for tiny houses. But he will treat it as an ''intellectual exercise,'' he said, that will allow him to develop ''an idea of the other extreme of size.''
 ''I'll have a sense of where the balance is,'' he added -- a sense that he hopes will help his family decide on a reasonable goal for downsizing, something he is eager to do soon. ''We bought this house, I think, for prestige,'' he said, sounding chastened. 
 But while Mr. Janzen is dabbling with tiny living, others are plunging in. Tara Flannery, a 25-year-old college student in Seattle, plans to move within the next few months from the Craftsman-style two-story house she shares with roommates into a Tumbleweed house. The decision was largely financial. 
 ''I wanted to buy my own place by 30, and the way the housing market is going that's not going to happen,'' she said, referring to the tightening credit market and the fact that home prices remain high in Seattle, despite the mortgage crisis.
 In a way, Ms. Flannery's tiny house, which will be about 100 square feet with a sleeping loft and will cost roughly $40,000, is a modern twist on the starter homes of the 1950s suburbs; it offers her a way into home ownership, of a sort, without the debilitating costs. ''I can spend my money traveling instead,'' she said. 
 It's an unencumbered lifestyle that Dee Williams, a hazardous waste inspector an hour away in Olympia, Wash., has embraced. Four years ago, she sold her 1,500-square-foot bungalow in Portland, Ore., and downsized to an 84-square-foot house made of knotty pine that she built herself for $10,000 and parked in a friend's backyard, where she lives free in exchange for helping her friend with chores. (She bathes in the friend's house because her bathroom doesn't have a shower, though most tiny houses do have both a shower and a toilet.) 
 Ms. Williams, 45, said that before the move, ''I was an environmentalist, but not a very dedicated one.'' She built her house, which she outfitted with solar panels and propane heating, both to ''walk the talk'' of eco-consciousness and ''to unshackle myself from a mortgage and doing repairs.'' Although last year, like most Americans, she saw a sharp rise in her monthly energy bill, the increase -- from $4 to $8 -- didn't exactly bankrupt her, she said. 
 Mr. Janzen, meanwhile, worries that an activist like Mr. Shafer, the Tumbleweed founder, ''would look at someone like me and say I'm only taking a half-step.'' 
 Asked if that were the case, Mr. Shafer said he doesn't advocate for everyone to live as he does. ''I know 100 square feet is too small for most people,'' he said, including his new bride, who lives next door to Mr. Shafer in a 700-square-foot house (although he is planning to build her a 300-square-foot replacement). Instead, he wants to be a living example encouraging people to downsize, even if it's only to a moderately smaller home. 
 The Janzens plan to do just that, as soon as the housing market bounces back and they can sell their current home without taking a loss. The couple wants to move back to Mendocino County, where early in their marriage they lived in that 450-square-foot cabin. ''I think I would have eventually said, do we really need all this?'' Mr. Janzen said. ''But it probably wouldn't have happened until retirement. Now I hope my 40s will be about having free time and doing the things I want to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LITTLE HOUSE ON THE FREEWAY: Tiny houses are sprouting up across the country. Jay Shafer took his 90-square-foot house on tour this summer, rolling along a Los Angeles highway.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
HOME EXTENSION: Small prefabricated sheds are gaining in popularity. Ryann and Dylan Perlstein play outside the one in their Los Angeles backyard. Their parents let them use the shed as a playroom for now, and their mother, Christina Simon, calls it ''cool.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE RECTOR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
THE LILLIPUTIAN LIFE: Some homeowners are using their new little houses as offices or retreats, like the 80-square-foot one Michael Janzen is building, far left. Others choose to actually live in theirs, like Dee Williams, left, whose 84-square-foot knotty-pine house has a tight but cozy interior, below.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEFT, HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ABOVE AND RIGHT, KARIE HAMILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (76%); HOME PRICES (71%); REAL ESTATE (71%); GREEN BUILDING (70%); WRITERS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); HISTORY (50%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (56%); LYONS PRESS (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); ARIZONA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



283 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Poll Shows U.S. and Europe Are Split Over Russia

BYLINE: By JUDY DEMPSEY

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
 Americans and Europeans are united in their concern over the growing political and economic power of Russia but cannot agree on how to respond to the Kremlin's new assertiveness, according to Transatlantic Trends, an annual opinion survey published Wednesday.
 The survey by the German Marshall Fund of the United States and the Compagnia di San Paola in Turin, Italy, was conducted before Georgia and Russia went to war last month and it coincided with intense interest by Europeans in the American presidential elections. 
 According to the survey -- carried out in June in the United States, Germany, France, Britain, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Turkey, Romania and Bulgaria -- nearly half of Europeans believe a victory by the Democratic candidate, Senator Barack Obama, would improve relations between the United States and Europe. This is compared with only 11 percent who believe ties would improve if the Republican candidate, Senator John McCain, were elected.
 The transatlantic relationship took a severe battering in 2003 when the United States invaded Iraq. France, Germany, Russia and Turkey led European opposition to the war. NATO also faced one of its worst crises since it was founded in 1949 as its members became bitterly divided over the war. 
 Over the past few years, Germany under Chancellor Angela Merkel and France under President Nicolas Sarkozy, have mended their relations with Washington and NATO has overcome divisions as it tries to focus on defeating the growing insurgency in Afghanistan. 
 The survey said that European support for NATO as an alliance that is essential to their country's security has increased to 57 percent, up four percentage points since 2007, with Germany, Spain and other countries now firmly supporting it.
 ''The trend of declining support for NATO in Germany and Poland is halted for the first year since 2002,'' according to the survey. 
 Turkey, however, remains highly critical of the United States, the European Union and NATO. Only eight percent of Turkish respondents viewed American leadership as desirable while 22 percent supported the European Union leadership and 38 percent saw NATO as essential.
 ''Whether it's the result of world events, a new U.S. administration on the horizon, or insecurity on several fronts, a new American president will have the opportunity to not only improve the United States standing in the world but perhaps also to ask more of European leaders,'' said Craig Kennedy, president of the German Marshall Fund of the United States.
 There is, for example, shared concern over Russia, with 84 percent of Americans and 72 percent of Europeans worried about the Kremlin providing weapons to the Middle East. More than 60 percent of Americans and 64 percent of Europeans -- an increase of three and five percentage points over the previous survey, respectively -- also worry about Russia as an energy provider, especially given high energy prices and the fact that Russia supplies over a third of Europe's natural gas. As for Russia's behavior towards its neighbors, the highest concern is felt by the Poles (71 percent) followed by Britain with 69 percent and Germany with 68.
 Americans and Europeans cannot agree on how to deal with Russia or its neighbors. Sixty-seven percent of Europeans are more willing than Americans (58 percent) to provide security assistance for neighboring democracies, including Georgia and Ukraine. However, this week's European Union-Ukraine summit in which the Europeans did not hold out the prospect of Ukraine one day joining the bloc, showed that there was a discrepancy between the population and its governments. NATO allies are also divided over offering Ukraine and Georgia a road map to join the alliance.
 Europeans and Americans differ over isolating Russia. Almost half of American respondents (47 percent) support restricting cooperation with Russian in international organizations, compared to 38 percent of Europeans.
 Germany, which has the closest political and economic ties to Moscow among the countries polled, is the country that is most worried about Russia's role as an energy provider, the weakening of democracy inside Russia, its role in the Balkans and how it treats its neighbors. 
 On a scale of 100, the highest level of concern was registered in Germany, at 64, with Britain at 62 and the United States at 60. 
 The lowest levels of concern were in Bulgaria at 40, Slovakia at 45 and Turkey at 49. 
 Despite Germany's apprehension, Mrs. Merkel's coalition done little to reduce the country's energy dependence on Russia.
 Thirteen thousand people over the age of 18 were surveyed. The margin of error was plus or minus 3 percentage points.
 -

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TRENDS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (59%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); GERMAN MARSHALL FUND OF THE US (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); ANGELA MERKEL (57%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TURIN, ITALY (72%) UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (96%); TURKEY (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ITALY (93%); FRANCE (93%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); POLAND (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ROMANIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%); BULGARIA (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008



284 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Questions Of Security

BYLINE: By PHILIP BOBBI and JOHN C. DANFORTH. 
Philip Bobbitt, the author of ''Terror and Consent: The Wars for the 21st Century,'' is a law professor at Columbia and a fellow at the University of Texas. John C. Danforth, a former Republican senator from Missouri, was the United States ambassador to the United Nations from 2004 to 2005.

 BODY:
JOHN McCAIN and Barack Obama are two of the most remarkable Americans to enter public life. Both men are extraordinarily capable and their campaigns -- which began against great odds -- reflect that fact. And yet with respect to national security, neither campaign has articulated the fundamental points of view that will allow people to make an informed choice in November.
 Time is running out. Without understanding how these two leaders approach and analyze problems, without having a clear sense of their differentiated approaches, we will be mired in the ephemera of polls, horse race journalism and the petty exchange of complaints arising from alleged missteps.
 Here, then, on the anniversary of 9/11, a day when both candidates have chosen to put politics aside and appear together at ground zero, are a dozen questions we would like to see them address. We know both candidates differ on Iraq and agree on closing the Guantanamo prison camp. We also know that both are for change, that they are patriotic and that they are cautious. But we hope they will not be too cautious to give us clear answers, even when these might alienate some voters. It is our hope that these answers will be published on this page. 
 1. Afghan officials have charged that some elements of the Pakistani government are seeking to undermine their country by giving sanctuary to Taliban and Qaeda groups that cross the border to attack Afghanistan. Would you launch large-scale armed attacks against terrorists in Pakistan if the new government there is unwilling -- or unable -- to suppress these groups and refuses to give United States forces permission to act? Or are you willing to put the Afghan regime at risk in order to play for time in Pakistan, hoping that a more successful government will emerge in Islamabad, and fearing that any attempt to use force there will result in a nuclear-armed anti-Western state?
 2. For some years now, the world has watched while ethnic cleansing -- even genocide -- has gripped Darfur. Are you prepared to announce the rules for American intervention for humanitarian purposes and, if so, what would those rules be? Would you be willing to organize a coalition of states to intervene? Or should the United States defer to the United Nations or regional organizations -- even when they are deadlocked and unable to act? 
 3. It has been more than five years since the United States-led coalition removed Saddam Hussein from power. How long should American troops remain in Iraq if American commanders on the ground state that withdrawal would lead to chaos? That is, should the United States withdraw according to a predetermined timetable, even if the consequences appear dire for Iraq? Or should troops remain indefinitely until their withdrawal can be assured to leave behind a stable Iraq?
 4. Would you authorize the use of force by the United States -- or collaborate with Israel -- to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons if it appears that diplomatic efforts are failing to bring about substantial progress in this regard? If not, what further incentives would you offer Iran to end its nuclear programs? For example, would you be willing to press Israel to do away with its own nuclear weapons as part of a regionwide de-nuclearization? What incentives would you be prepared to offer Israel to desist from a pre-emptive attack? Would you be willing, for instance, to give Israel a place under the United States nuclear umbrella?
 5. The Supreme Court recently held that prisoners taken in the war against terror are entitled to habeas corpus review in the federal courts. Is it sensible to speak of a ''war'' on terror, or is this a struggle that should be principally handled by law enforcement? Should suspected terrorists be given the same protections as ordinary criminals -- like the right to confront their accusers and the right not to be tried by illegally obtained evidence? Or should there be special rules for the trials of terror suspects, or even a special court that would hold secret trials?
 6. In light of United Nations Security Council inaction in Bosnia, Cambodia, Rwanda, Zimbabwe and elsewhere, critics have said that the United Nations is not an effective instrument for confronting rogue states, terror and genocide. Do you favor expanding NATO, or using it as a model for creating an alliance of democracies? If you do, would such an alliance require unanimity of its members for action? Or, if you oppose creating such a group, how should the United States confront crises when the council is paralyzed?
 7. What if anything should the United States do to further trade negotiations after the collapse of the Doha round in Geneva? Should the United States try to revive multilateral talks, and, if so, how? Do you support bilateral trade agreements with Colombia, South Korea and Panama? Should the United States abrogate Nafta if Canada and Mexico will not revise the agreement to our liking?
 8. Russia's invasion of Georgia followed Georgia's attack on the separatist region of South Ossetia; it was also an expression of Russian resentment over former Warsaw Pact states becoming members of NATO and hosting proposed American missile defense systems. Would you try to restore Georgian sovereignty over South Ossetia and Abkhazia? If so, how -- by offering United States security guarantees to Georgia, expelling Russia from the Group of Eight, withholding membership in the World Trade Organization? Or would you attempt to calm Russian sensibilities by renouncing, at least for the time being, Georgian and Ukrainian candidacies for NATO membership, and putting Polish and Czech missile defense deployments on hold?
 9. Both of you have talked about global partnerships to address problems as varied as climate change, weapons proliferation and terror. What specific incentives can you offer potential allies to create such partnerships? Why do you believe these incentives will be more likely to succeed than those offered by the Bush and Clinton administrations?
 10. Political instability in the Middle East underscores the need for Western energy security. At the same time, the Group of Eight has set a goal of bringing global carbon dioxide emissions down to half their 1990 level by 2050. Realistically, there is little chance of achieving this target, nor of achieving real energy security, without drastically new technologies. What, if anything, should government do to increase domestic production of oil and gas, to expand the use of nuclear energy and to encourage energy conservation and new technologies? Which technologies do you favor and how should government promote them -- or with high oil prices, would you leave this job to the market?
 11. Rising food prices and population growth raise the specter of widespread starvation in Africa. The overseas aid budgets of most countries, including the United States, are far below the United Nations Millennium Development Goals' target of 0.7 percent of gross domestic product. Would you favor greatly increasing this aid to meet those levels or would you, instead, try to wean Africa off direct aid in favor of using these funds to spur investment in the region?
 12. What do you see as the principal difference between you and your opponent in your fundamental approach to the national security problems facing the United States? 
 Choice is at the heart of the American electoral idea. If Americans are given a clear choice -- as they were in 1964 and 1980 -- they can speak with clarity at the ballot box. If not, the winning candidate will risk inheriting a fragile mandate that will soon erode in the face of the challenges he avoided forthrightly addressing in the campaign. As 9/11 painfully reminds us, these challenges insistently reassert themselves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (86%); HORSE RACING (77%); PRISONS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); TERRORISM (74%); POLITICS (74%); TALIBAN (70%); GENOCIDE (66%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (66%); ARMED FORCES (63%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (74%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



285 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Seek to Curb Speculators

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
Three members of Congress, armed with a new report that they say proves that excessive oil speculation is distorting consumer energy prices, are renewing their efforts to exclude many institutional investors from the nation's commodity markets.
 The report was released Wednesday by Senators Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, and Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington, and Representative Bart Stupak, Democrat of Michigan.
 It was written by Michael W. Masters, a hedge fund manager who is urging Congress to curb institutional commodity investments, and Alan K. White, a financial analyst who operates an independent research firm in Alpharetta, Ga. 
 Using publicly available data, the report argues that institutional commodity investors, specifically through index funds, drive up commodity prices. It says that financial speculators create new demand in limited markets, and it asserts that a retreat of speculative money this summer is responsible for the recent decline in oil prices.
 ''Eighty percent of Americans believe that oil speculators are manipulating the price of oil, and Mr. Masters's report proves that they are right,'' Senator Cantwell said.
 Mr. Masters is scheduled to testify next Tuesday at a Senate Energy subcommittee hearing on oil speculation -- one of more than three dozen Congressional hearings on the topic so far this year.
 His findings have been disputed by many Wall Street analysts, regulators and independent economists, who say the sharp run-up and volatility in oil prices are more a function of supply and demand. 
 Even so, Mr. Masters's report will be on the agenda when the acting chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Walter Lukken, appears before the House Agriculture Committee on Thursday.
 This year, Congress asked the commission to examine institutional commodity trading. It has gathered an unprecedented amount of private data from institutional investors that was not available to Mr. Masters.
 The commission's report is due on Monday and may be released as soon as Friday. But both Mr. Masters and Senator Dorgan said they saw no compelling reason to wait for its release.
 ''This regulator has precious little credibility right now,'' the senator said, referring to the commodity futures commission. Mr. Masters said he intended to comment on the commission's report when it was released. ''If they have other data that changes things, then it changes things,'' he shrugged. ''But I think that is highly unlikely.''
 This renewed debate over oil speculation occurs in a sharply different market climate than the hearings held last spring. Oil prices, although still well above levels four years ago, have dropped sharply from their peaks this summer.
 Most economists attribute this decline to more pessimistic expectations about the global economy and the recent steep decline in energy demand. 
 Scott DeFife, a spokesman for a coalition of financial trade associations, argued that the most likely cause of lower oil prices was a change in driving habits: Americans drove 53 million fewer miles this summer than they did a year ago.
 If the nation's oil use continues to fall at this rate, ''this will be the weakest annual demand since the early 1980s,'' said Kevin Norrish, director of Barclays Capital commodity research in London. ''Due to data lags, that is just now becoming apparent.''
 Barclays is a leading provider of commodity products for institutional investors. But independent researchers also take issue with Mr. Masters's findings.
 Dwight R. Sanders, an agricultural economist at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale, said Mr. Masters was asserting that a pension fund's purchase of oil futures contracts had the same impact on the supply-demand equation as China's purchase of real-world oil. 
 ''I have a difficult time following this logic,'' Professor Sanders said. ''Index funds aren't consuming the physical product. So their buying has no impact on physical stocks.''
 ''But the real flaw in the logic is on the supply side,'' he said. While the supplies of stocks and commodities are limited, there is essentially no limit to the number of futures contracts that can be created and traded, he said. 
 The arrival of new buyers in the commodity markets does not require new supplies of oil or corn, he explained. It only requires new supplies of sellers. Mr. Masters did not dispute that analysis, but argued that higher prices had been necessary to attract those new sellers.
 Brad Zigler, the managing editor of the Hard Assets Investor newsletter, said his data showed a brief correlation between commodity index fund investments and oil prices during 2006. In 2007, he said, that correlation fell apart.
 But members of Congress are not only confident about Mr. Masters's findings, they are also almost equally suspicious of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, a regulator generally held in high regard by the commodity exchanges under its jurisdiction.
 That contempt was evident in Senator Dorgan's comments on the Masters report on Wednesday: ''This report is another example of how oil speculators can control the market while the federal agency, which should be protecting American consumers, has been dead from the neck up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The hedge fund manager Michael W. Masters in June, with Walter Lukken, left, of the commodity futures commission, and James Newsome, center, of the New York Mercantile Exchange. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FUTURES (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); INDEX FUNDS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%)

COMPANY: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%)

PERSON: MARIA CANTWELL (73%); BART STUPAK (58%); BYRON DORGAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



286 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: House Bill Would Loosen Coastal Drilling Restrictions

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
After months of political assault from Republicans over high gasoline prices, House Democrats are preparing legislation that would relax a decades-old ban on oil drilling along much of the nation's coastline.
 The legislation, still being assembled Wednesday for a vote as early as Thursday, would also require utility companies to generate more power from renewable sources, provide tax incentives for alternative energy like wind power and institute new conservation programs. 
 The measure, which would retain current restrictions on drilling off the Gulf Coast of Florida, would repeal some federal subsidies for oil companies and seek to improve the collection of royalty payments. 
 ''Our energy legislation will bring down gas prices, protect taxpayers, invest in clean renewable energy and provide an American-owned energy policy that the Bush-McCain Republicans have failed to deliver for the past eight years,'' Speaker Nancy Pelosi said.
 The proposal, coming as the Senate develops a similar plan, represents a stark reversal for Ms. Pelosi, Democrat of California, who had adamantly opposed a vote on an expansion of offshore drilling after being part of the coalition that has kept the coastal ban in place since the 1980s.
 But Republicans have captured some political momentum by accusing Democrats of resisting domestic production that could eventually lower gas prices and reduce American dependence on foreign sources of oil. Democrats say the legislation will rob Republicans of a potent issue by giving Democrats an opportunity to vote for more drilling and claim credit for responding to high gas prices.
 Top Republicans said that they had successfully forced the Democratic hand on drilling but that the emerging proposal still fell far short of what was needed.
 ''They are trying to pull a hoax on the American people, something that looks like an energy plan but does nothing about more oil and gas and more American-made energy,'' said Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader. ''That's because their caucus for 30 years has blocked every attempt to open up more drilling for oil and gas in America.''
 Under the Democratic approach, the federal government could lease drilling rights 50 to 100 miles off a state's coastline as long as a state affirmatively ''opts in'' by passing a state law. Waters beyond 100 miles would be open to federal leasing. National marine monuments and sanctuaries would be permanently withdrawn from any leasing programs. Alternative proposals offered by Republicans would allow drilling as close as within 12 miles of a state's coastline.
 Democrats say the proposal is attracting broad support from lawmakers, appeasing conservative Democrats who had pressed for more drilling and satisfying longtime supporters of the ban who wanted to protect the coastlines of states like California that have opposed drilling. Party officials said they were confident that most Democrats would not abandon the party and support more aggressive Republicans alternatives.
 Since 1982, Congress has regularly enacted an annual ban on oil leasing off the Atlantic and Pacific Coasts, with critics citing the risk from oil spills. Allies of the oil industry have repeatedly sought to overturn it, but have regularly fallen short. Democratic leaders say the current economic and political climate makes retaining the ban untenable.
 Democrats say, however, that the Republican approach is too reliant on new oil production. ''That leaves you addicted to oil,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus. ''Our strategy is tap domestic production but fund the new technologies in the wind, solar and other areas, that will lead towards American's energy independence.''
 The prospect of relaxing the restrictions is drawing strong opposition from the environmental community, which argues that offshore drilling will do nothing to reduce oil prices and that Congress should instead focus on encouraging greater reliance on alternative energy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (78%); OIL & GAS LEASES (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); WIND ENERGY (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); TAX LAW (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (71%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (71%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (73%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



287 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2371 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: September 11, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 IF NORTH KOREA'S LEADER IS ILL,
 The Question Is Succession
 Intelligence reports that Kim Jong-il, the North Korean leader, suffered a stroke raise questions about succession that the North's neighbors have long feared asking. Mr. Kim took over after his father, Kim Il-sung, the founder of North Korea, died of heart failure in 1994. Long before that, he had been groomed as a successor. But none of his three known sons nor his daughter has emerged as an obvious candidate to take the dynasty into a third generation. PAGE A6
 PAKISTANI LEADER CRITICIZES U.S.
 The chief of the Pakistani army said his forces would not tolerate United States missions into Pakistan to fight Taliban and Qaeda militants and would defend the country's sovereignty ''at all costs.'' The statement by the chief amounted to a direct rebuff to the United States by the Pakistanis, who are regarded by the Bush administration as an ally in the campaign on terrorism. PAGE A8 
 A LOOK INSIDE BIN LADEN'S JIHAD
 A large cache of audiocassette tapes left behind at Osama bin Laden's headquarters in Kandahar, Afghanistan, provide a more spontaneous look at al Qaeda than is usually available through the carefully choreographed messages it releases to the world, said Flagg Miller, a University of California, Davis, professor who spent five years translating the cassettes. Among the revelations: being on jihad can be boring. PAGE A14
 EFFORT TO HELP CHAD ENDS
 When the World Bank agreed in 2000 to help finance a $4.2 billion pipeline to tap the undeveloped oil wealth of Chad, the government of Chad agreed to channel most of its royalties into fighting poverty. That experiment expired quietly this week. Chad repaid the $65.7 million it owed the World Bank out of national coffers swollen by oil revenues, but it had not honored part of its bargain, the bank said. PAGE A12
 IRAQ SEEKS FIGHTER JETS
 Iraq's defense minister said that his country was seeking to buy F-16 fighter jets from the United States, which he said would be a crucial step if Iraqi forces were to assume more responsibilities from American soldiers. His American counterpart, Robert M. Gates, said he believed the Iraq war had entered the ''endgame.'' PAGE A6
 A COLD WAR MYSTERY
 It was a cold war legend: a Bulgarian dissident writer who had defected to the West and become a journalist and critic of Communist rule died in a London hospital of a mysterious fever after being injected with a poison pellet from a specially adapted umbrella. Now, 30 years later, new mystery swirls around the death. PAGE A10
 national
 HIGH COSTS AND OBSTACLES
 Delay Fence Along Border
 Cost overruns, legal obstacles and other problems were imperiling the completion of the 670 miles of fencing and technological improvements on the Southwest border that President Bush has promoted as vital to securing it, the Department of Homeland Security said. PAGE A16
 PREPARING FOR HURRICANE IKE
 Thousands of people fled coastal areas of Texas after Hurricane Ike spun off Cuba, roared into the Gulf of Mexico and headed toward the state with growing strength. The storm pummeled Haiti, Cuba and other parts of the Caribbean, then refueled in the Gulf of Mexico. It headed toward a landfall Saturday as a Category 4 hurricane betweenCorpus Christiand Galveston. PAGE A21
 CALLS TO EASE CUBA EMBARGO
 With Cuba in trouble, ravaged by Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, Miami is again debating its relationship with the island. Even as supporters of the 47-year-old trade embargo maintain that there are already enough programs providing aid, groups have begun to demand that the policy's restrictions on family travel and remittances be lifted for 60 to 90 days so Cuban-Americans can do more for their relatives. PAGE A21
 CLEANING UP A NUCLEAR MESS
 Last month B Reactor, the world's first major nuclear reactor and the source of plutonium for the bomb that was dropped on Nagasaki in World War II, was designated a national historic landmark. Although the federal government no longer produces plutonium at the B Reactor -- at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation in Richland, Wash., -- it expects to spend the foreseeable future cleaning up after it, very carefully. PAGE A16
 MCCAIN UNVEILS NEW OBAMA ADS
 Escalating its efforts to portray Senator Barack Obama as a candidate whose values fall outside the mainstream, the campaign of Senator John McCain unveiled a new television advertisement asserting that Mr. Obama, the Democratic nominee, favors ''comprehensive sex education'' for kindergarten students. The accusation, however, seriously distorts the record. PAGE A22
 DEBATE REVIVED ON KNEE SURGERY
 A study has found that surgery is no better than more conservative treatment to relieve knee pain caused by arthritis. The results of the study are in line with those from a study published in 2002. But experts are divided about what effects the two studies will have. PAGE A19
 Palin to Break News Blackout A23 
 Panel Backs Airlines on Safety A18 
 metro 
 HOLE IN CITY'S SKYLINE
 Still Lingers After 9/11
 Marissa Gonzalez had designed her whole fourth-floor apartment in Brooklyn around the outline of the Lower Manhattan skyline. A few months after Sept. 11, 2001, she moved out. And though it may seem trivial compared with the pain of those who lost loved ones, friends or colleagues in the terrorist attacks, the way New Yorkers have reached accommodation -- or not -- with the transformed view provides yet another window into the city's long recovery process. PAGE B1
 LEARNING BY DOING
 Some 500 engineering students at Columbia University will earn academic credit this year participating in projects around Harlem: designing swings for people in wheelchairs, creating a trash can that can be used by the severely disabled and others. Such service learning has been a graduation requirement for all of Columbia's engineering majors for six years, and other academic departments are considering integrating it into the curriculum. PAGE B1 
 SPORTS
 DOPING QUESTIONS REKINDLED
 As Armstrong Plans Return
 As Lance Armstrong prepares to announce his return to professional cycling, a somewhat arcane scientific debate has rekindled questions about his past and whether his cycling success came in part through doping. The matter involves an error in an expert's long-term study of Armstrong's muscle efficiency -- and whether that error is significant, or incidental. PAGE D2 
 AFTER 18 YEARS, RIVALRY RENEWED
 Penn State and Syracuse began their football rivalry with a 0-0 tie in 1922 at the Polo Grounds. More than a few of their 68 games ended with some sort of controversy. And then they ended altogether; the teams have not played each other since 1990 -- and they even dispute the reason for that. But No. 17 Penn State (2-0) and Syracuse (0-2) will revive their history Saturday in the Carrier Dome, then return to State College, Pa., next fall. PAGE D6 
 A TOP PROSPECT KEPT OFF THE FIELD
 Pedro Alvarez, the son of a New York City livery cab driver, was picked second over all by the Pittsburgh Pirates in Major League Baseball's draft in June after three standout seasons playing third base for Vanderbilt. But his professional career is tied up in a dispute about precisely when he made his deal with the Pirates and whether baseball rules were broken. PAGE D5 
 OBITUARIES
 RICHARD MONETTE, 64
 A Canadian actor and director, he became the artistic director of the Stratford Shakespeare Festival and led it into the most robust artistic and financial period in its history. Mr. Monette was known for unabashedly audience-pleasing productions that were sometimes dismissed by critics who derided him as a populist. PAGE C12 
 BUSINESS
 REPORT ACCUSES BANKS
 Of Tax Evasion Schemes
 A number of Wall Street investment banks are selling complex schemes intended to allow foreign investors to illegally avoid paying billions of dollars in dividend taxes, according to a Senate subcommittee report that singles out Morgan Stanley, Lehman Brothers, Deutsche Bank, Merrill Lynch, UBS and Citigroup. Complex equity swaps, fake loans and sham stock sales help to disguise dividend payments to clients, the report said. PAGE C5
 CHINA JOINS REAL ESTATE DECLINE
 China has joined at least one capitalist list it would not want to: nations suffering a real estate decline. Real estate brokers say prices are down drastically and volumes are up, a downturn that comes as Chinese exports have slowed and stock markets have plummeted. The confluence of events has triggered what economists describe as a deceleration in China's economic growth, although at nearly 10 percent it remains the envy of many countries. PAGE C1
 UNEASY LIES THE LEHMAN HEAD
 Richard S. Fuld started at Lehman Brothers in 1969 as an intern, rose through the ranks, stayed when the firm was sold in distress in the 1980s and oversaw its spinoff in the 1990s. He is the longest-serving Wall Street chief but also the one investors are most closely tying to the problems in the mortgage markets. ''I think it's possible he could be pushed out any day now,'' one analyst said. PAGE C1
 TANKER DECISION DELAYED
 Saying that the competition had become too ''highly charged,'' the defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, said the Pentagon was postponing a decision on a $35 billion contract to replace the Air Force's aging tanker fleet until the next administration. Mr. Gates said that the seven-year acquisition process had become ''enormously complex and emotional,'' blaming ''mistakes and missteps along the way'' by the Pentagon. PAGE C3
 INVESTORS TURN ON THRIFT
 Investors drove down shares in Washington Mutual, the nation's largest thrift, by 30 percent on fears that, like Lehman Brothers, it is running out of time and options to find a buyer or raise capital to repair it from a hard hit by the downturn in the housing market. PAGE C1
 CARDS REPLACE LINES OF CREDIT
 Banks have become more reluctant to extend traditional lines of credit to small businesses, but they have been offering ''small business'' credit cards. One fundamental difference is that lines of credit have low, fixed interest rates or slow-moving, variable ones, while interest rates on credit cards can jump unpredictably. Too unpredictably, some small-business owners say. PAGE C6
 Style
 I WANT MY KIDS TO HAVE 
 The Internet Persona I Never Did
 Of all the things expected of precocious children, typing is not usually one. Or at least not while in infancy. So parents help them start, managing their pages on sites like totspot.com, billed as Facebook for children. It makes whipping out pictures in an old wallet look even more low-tech than ever. Want to check in on your favorite nephew? Just log on. Page E2 
 GOLD, SILVER OR BRONZE? NO, IRON
 The Ironman competition, the premiere triathlon in the country, has seen a 40 percent rise in entry costs. But unlike gas or rent, this has not done anything to dampen participation. While anybody can stage a race, it takes a licensing fee to host an Ironman event, complete with the logo's trademark M-dot, proving again that exclusivity is a popular commodity all its own. Page E8 
 Arts
 SPLITS OR BACKBENDS,
 Strike an Acrobatic Pose
 A moment in time, between muscle twitches and synaptic response, a photograph of a dancer can often not help being picturesque. In ''Capri's Camera on Dance,'' Frank Capri captures 29 of these moments but shows the flashy, fancy moves of dance and often neglects their more subtle, distinctive counterparts, Alastair Macauley writes. The focus seems to be, unfortunately, on the sensational. Page B5 
 HOME
 PROVIDING A NATURAL LOOK
 Through Unnatural Effort
 Once it matures, a perennial meadow in bloom -- as opposed to, say, a large expanse of lawn -- presents nature at its most alluring. But don't think that producing one is as simple as sprinkling a bunch of wildflower seeds. There are rules to be aware of, and maybe the most important is just to be patient. PAGE D1 
 LIFE IN THE ROUND
 The architects Branimir Medic and Pero Puljiz believe that the modern house must bring the family more intensely together -- because modern life makes those times less frequent than before. They see features of traditional homes -- multiple floors, separate rooms -- as no longer conducive to family life. They favor round -- think of living inside a doughnut surrounding a courtyard. PAGE D4 
 Editorial
 MISSISSIPPI'S BALLOT TRICK
 Mississippi's governor and secretary of state have come up with an appalling dirty trick for the November election. They have decided to hide a hard-fought race for the United States Senate at the bottom of the ballot, where they clearly are hoping some voters will overlook it. PAGE A26
 IN SEARCH OF GOVERNOR PALIN
 It is past time for Sarah Palin, Republican running mate, Alaska governor and self-proclaimed reformer, to fill in for the voting public the gaping blanks about her record and qualifications to be vice president. The best way would be by doing exactly what the McCain campaign is avoiding -- holding an honest news conference. PAGE A26
 NICE WORK IF YOU CAN GET IT
 Daniel Mudd and Richard Syron, the ousted chiefs of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, could collect as much as $24 million in exit pay unless a federal regulator says no. Neither should be rewarded any more than they already have been for their failures. PAGE A26
 op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS
 A large number of Democrats have gone completely nuts about Barack Obama's presidential campaign. He's going to lose! Sarah Palin is getting all the attention! The Republicans are so mean! Please, little Obama-ites, calm down. You're overreacting. PAGE A27
 QUESTIONS OF SECURITY
 In Op-Ed articles to commemorate 9/11, Philip Bobbitt, a law professor and former member of the National Security Council, and John C. Danforth, a former Republican senator from Missouri, lay out essential foreign policy questions for the candidates; Clark Kent Ervin, the former inspector general of the Department of Homeland Security, asks whether the United States is prepared for another attack; and Edward Ruscha, an artist, shares his thoughts about an old photograph of Lower Manhattan. PAGE A27

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); STROKES (78%); ARMIES (76%); TALIBAN (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (74%); HEART DISEASE (73%); IRAQ WAR (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); ROYALTIES (68%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (88%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (86%); ROBERT M GATES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHAD (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); BULGARIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



288 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Europe Slashes Growth Forecasts for 2008

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
The European Commission on Wednesday cut its forecast for economic growth this year, conceding that a slowdown in the United States, expensive energy and a global housing slump were exacting a heavier price than was expected even six months ago.
 With an embattled prime minister in Britain struggling with a housing market slide, a German government under pressure to enact an economic stimulus package and a French government whose spending is hamstrung by a ballooning budget deficit, the gloomy figures only added to a darkening political mood in Europe. 
 Jean-Claude Juncker, the prime minister and finance minister of Luxembourg who heads a group of finance ministers for the 15-nation euro area, even began to flirt with talk of recession as two quarters of contraction, a common definition of recession, became a distinct possibility.
 ''I wouldn't talk about a recession, but I would talk about a technical recession,'' Mr. Juncker told the European Parliament. ''Regardless of the technical nature of this, the situation needs to be classified as being a serious one.''
 The European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union, predicted that the 27-nation bloc would grow 1.3 percent this year, sharply less than the 1.7 percent that it had hoped for in April.
 Among the countries that use the euro, a group that excludes big economies like Britain, Sweden and Poland, growth is expected to be 1.4 percent, off from a 2 percent estimate in April.
 ''The way the European economies will start 2009, according to this forecast, will not be very good,'' said Joaquin Almunia, the commissioner for economic and monetary affairs.
 For now Europe is sidestepping a contentious debate over the kind of economic stimulus measures that the United States embraced this year, even though the euro area economy contracted in the second quarter.
 Budgets are tight, and constrained by European rules against overspending. The European Central Bank argues that the slowdown will ease soon, and that European welfare states should be able to give economies a fillip without showy new programs to encourage spending and investment.
 ''Politicians have demanded these, and they will probably demand more if there is a negative third quarter,'' said Klaus Zimmermann, director of the German Institute for Economic Research in Berlin. ''But every economic researcher would say we need to wait and see what happens.''
 The E.C.B. president, Jean-Claude Trichet, urged European governments Wednesday not to go down the road of greater spending or higher wages. The bank argues that growth will resume by the end of the year.
 ''We will have a gradual recovery over the next years after the present depressed episode,'' Mr. Trichet told the European Parliament. ''The fall of oil prices from their peak in July will help strengthen disposable income.''
 Mr. Trichet, eager to avoid a spending binge, has highlighted what economists call the ''automatic stabilizers'' that distinguish most European countries from the United States. As unemployment rises, spending on jobless benefits and other programs eases the pain without any action by politicians.
 The European Union also has rules that limit budget deficits to 3 percent of gross domestic product, a measure intended to bolster confidence in the euro. The pact, analysts agree, has helped raise the pressure for fiscal discipline in Europe, though major countries, including France and Germany, have breached it without sanction.
 Not every European politician is willing to wait for the economy to turn a corner.
 Michael Glos, the German economy minister, has proposed lowering social insurance contributions to foster job creation and higher spending, but his plan was rejected by Chancellor Angela Merkel. Mr. Glos hails from the Christian Social Union, a conservative, Bavaria-based political party that is facing regional elections on Sept. 28.
 But Ms. Merkel is not ruling out action next year. Her entire government will face voters in the fall, and she is hoping for another four-year term.
 Gordon Brown, the British prime minister, by contrast, is struggling simply to stay in power.
 Mr. Brown took over from Tony Blair in 2007 only to see Britain lurch into its worst banking and housing crisis in decades. Some members of his Labour Party have called for his resignation, but Mr. Brown is hanging on despite extremely low poll ratings.
 The European Commission forecast a contracting economy in Britain for the rest of the year.
 French officials may want to lend a hand to the economy, but the French budget deficit is perilously close to outstripping the 3 percent limit set by European rules.
 France also holds the rotating presidency of the European Union, a job that raises the pressure to comply. But by next year, when another country is running the show, and other countries are in a similar situation, the temptation to spend may prove irresistible, analysts said.
 ''For now, I think they have given up on any idea of economic stimulus,'' said Olivier Gasnier, a senior economist at Societe Generale in Paris.
 The lack of viable options for jumpstarting slow economies suggests that it is only a matter of time before European politicians lay the blame at the central bank's doorstep -- again. The E.C.B. wants to see inflation, now running at close to 4 percent, drop steadily before it lowers interest rates to support growth.
 Germany, which backed the creation of an independent European Central Bank 10 years ago, has almost always supported the bank, but other European governments have seldom hesitated to criticize it.
 ''I expect the tensions between the E.C.B. and governments to increase,'' Mr. Zimmermann, of the Berlin research group, said. ''Not with Germany, but it will probably come from others in Europe.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); HOME PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EURO (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (93%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (79%); JOAQUIN ALMUNIA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); SWEDEN (79%); POLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



289 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Misery Loves Democrats

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS. 
Nicholas D. Kristof is off today.

 BODY:
It has come to our attention that a large number of Democrats have gone completely nuts about Barack Obama's presidential campaign.
 He's going to lose! Sarah Palin is getting all the attention! The Republicans are so mean! Why isn't he tougher?
 They're calling each other up to discuss how doomed they are, vowing to move to Canada as soon as the election is over and the inevitable worst has occurred. Really, we evacuated several hurricane-prone states with more cheer and optimism. 
 Cheer up, Obama-ites. You're overreacting. I'll answer all your questions as long as you promise to take deep breaths into this nice paper bag.
 Have you seen the polls? He should be talking more about the economy! Why isn't his campaign working harder?
 If the Obama brain trust seems relatively serene compared with its seething base, it's because they live in the Electoral College world, where the presidential race only takes place in a third of the country. They don't care about national polls -- a concept as quaint as measuring one's wealth by caribou pelts. They worry about the undecided vote in Minnesota and Ohio and run their TV ads (about the economy) in places like Colorado and Michigan and Florida. If you live in California or New York or Texas, you don't really have much of a feel for their level of effort because as far as they're concerned, you've already voted.
 I'm beginning to think we should have gone with Hillary Clinton.
 Hillary now lives in a golden alternative universe. As soon as the Democrats had actually nominated Obama, they decided that Clinton was by far the better candidate and that they had destroyed their chances by not choosing her. This is the nature of the party. If she had not been in the race, the Democrats would probably be bemoaning the fact that they hadn't stuck with John Edwards and nailed down the critical swing-state philanderer vote.
 Obama seems to be disappearing from the news compared with Sarah Palin!
 One of the great things about this campaign is that both sides are convinced they're going to lose. Remember how nuts all the Obama people went when Hillary refused to concede? How suicidal the Republicans were when Obama was knocking them dead in Europe while McCain was tooling around in a golf cart with the president's father? We still have nearly two months to go. The people who haven't decided who they want to vote for by now aren't going to make up their minds until the last minute. Just chill for a few weeks until the debates start and let the Sarah Palin thing play itself out.
 But the vice president isn't supposed to get any attention, and all people can talk about is Palin, Palin, Palin!
 True. I think that's because she's from Alaska. It's got that frontier aura that we've missed since all the cowboy television series were canceled a generation ago. Plus, it gives us the opportunity to talk a lot about moose, which are a funny animal no matter how you slice it. If Palin had been a deer-hunting mom from New Jersey, John McCain would have gotten no post-convention bump whatsoever.
 McCain, by the way, is the Republican nominee for president. You may remember him from the Sarah Palin convention in Minneapolis, where he gave a speech and was congratulated by Sarah Palin.
 Have you seen that Republican lipstick video? They're trying to say Obama called her a pig!
 Obama simply brought up the old saw about how ''you can put lipstick on a pig; it's still a pig.'' The Republicans seem to be assuming that since Palin has a joke about how hockey moms are pit bulls with lipstick, all references to mammals wearing lip rouge are about her. 
 If you really want to see a strange line of attack, take a look at the wolf ad. It cuts from Palin's face to Obama's to packs of wolves prowling through the forest, presumably in search of vice-presidential prey. Then comes the text claiming that as Barack drops in the polls, ''he'll try to destroy her.'' Given Palin's affection for shooting wolves from airplanes with high-powered rifles, it'd be more appropriate to have them cowering in their dens while she aims her machine gun from a diving Cessna.
 You don't seem to appreciate how critical this election is.
 Well, I definitely appreciate how long this election is. Time only seems short because these people have already been running for a year. Calm down. Remember, that 17-mile-long Swiss particle collider that people were afraid would create a black hole that swallows the Earth? It started operation this week. And so far, no planet-eating black holes. So you see, things could be worse. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); SARAH PALIN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



290 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Seven Years Later, Ground Zero

 BODY:
After the attacks on New York City, most people agreed there should be an enduring memorial at ground zero. Some voices, like ours, argued for builders to move swiftly, while others said it made sense to move slowly to let grief subside. 
 Those hoping for more time seem to have gotten their way. It is now seven years after the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, and the land where the World Trade Center stood still has the painful feel of a construction site.
 It is not fair to say nothing has been done. The subterranean work has started, obviously the first step in moving upward to a cluster of skyscrapers around a park and memorial. Yet the political terrain has always been the rockiest at ground zero. 
 Former Gov. George Pataki never got control over the warring factions -- the families of the dead, the New York Police Department, business interests, neighbors and the larger community of artists and citizens concerned with rebuilding Lower Manhattan. 
 Former Gov. Eliot Spitzer barely left an imprint in his brief time in office, and Gov. David Paterson seems primarily concerned with schedules and the costs of this extremely complex urban project. Mayor Michael Bloomberg sees the glacial pace at ground zero as a call for city government to take the helm.
 Rather than worrying over the bureaucratic layers here, Mr. Bloomberg, Mr. Paterson and New Jersey's governor, Jon Corzine, should sit down right now to clear the roadblocks. One hindrance to progress is the skeletal Deutsche Bank building that needs to come down now, not a year from now. The two governors and the mayor should also be able to resolve conflicts about the construction and cost of the Santiago Calatrava transportation hub that have complicated the building of the memorial complex. The trio should be able to preserve the essential elements of Mr. Calatrava's magnificent design without further delaying the memorial.
 Finally, the three leaders could do more to push the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the main builder at this stage. It is time to give the authority hard deadlines, especially for the memorial, as Mayor Bloomberg did this week. On Sept. 11, 2011, the memorial should be ready for the public to remember the 10th anniversary of the attacks at New York's ground zero.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GOVERNORS (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); PORT AUTHORITIES (61%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (64%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (64%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (64%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); DAVID PATERSON (58%); JON CORZINE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



291 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON LINE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: Troubling Signs for Obama in Pennsylvania

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: LANCASTER, Pa. 

 BODY:
Pennsylvania has voted for Democrats for president since 1992. But no one ever said winning it would be as easy for Senator Barack Obama as, say, ladling Cheez Whiz onto a Pat's steak.
 In April he managed to insult the state's rural voters, saying they cling to their guns and religion because they are bitter about their economic plight. And he lost the primary to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.
 Since winning the Democratic nomination, Mr. Obama's campaign has labored to secure his standing here. It has conducted a ferocious voter registration drive, flooded the airwaves with commercials and dispatched thousands of volunteers to knock on doors and make phone calls. It has opened 65 offices across the state -- four times as many as Mr. McCain has -- and more than it has opened in any other state.
 Still, Craig Schirmer, the Obama state director, said on a conference call with reporters Wednesday that he expected the race here to be ''incredibly close,'' within ''a couple'' of percentage points. 
 Maybe he was just lowering expectations.
 But a new Quinnipiac poll released on Thursday shows that Mr. Obama's lead over Mr. McCain in Pennsylvania has shrunk to three percentage points (48-45) from seven percentage points on Aug. 26. (The sampling was taken Sept. 5-9 of 1,001 likely Pennsylvania voters with a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points, making the results statistically a dead heat.)
 Mr. McCain has narrowed the gap in Pennsylvania by wiping out Mr. Obama's lead among independent voters, said Clay F. Richards, assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute. Mr. Obama still holds a three-point edge ''by convincing previously uncommitted Hillary Clinton primary voters and Catholics to move into his camp -- the Catholics perhaps because of some help from running mate Joe Biden, a Catholic from Scranton,'' Mr. Richards said. 
 Mr. McCain has also gained ground among white women, according to this poll and others, perhaps reflecting a positive reaction to his choice of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as his vice-presidential running mate.
 A raucous rally here Tuesday with Mr. McCain and Ms. Palin -- what Mr. McCain calls ''this team of mavericks'' -- provided fresh evidence of what Mr. Obama is up against in this state.
 Mr. McCain and Ms. Palin drew a cheering throng of 7,000 people to the sports center at Franklin & Marshall College, practically a tidal wave compared with Mr. McCain's once-sleepy audiences (although a bit smaller than an Obama rally nearby a few days earlier).
 Once they arrived in the arena, Mr. McCain and Ms. Palin spent 10 minutes just working their way through the crowd to the podium as Jerry Goldsmith's stirring theme music from the football movie ''Rudy'' washed over them. ''Sarah!'' they chanted. ''Sarah!''
 In her 14-minute speech, Ms. Palin, wearing a red jacket, black dress and red patent-leather heels, essentially repeated her acceptance speech from the convention, including some information about her record that has been disputed, and she highlighted Mr. Obama's remark about small-town voters.
 ''Here in Pennsylvania,'' Ms. Palin said, ''we don't know what to make of a candidate who lavishes praise on working people when they're listening, and turns around and talks about how bitterly they cling to their religion and their guns when they're not listening.''
 The crowd booed a mightily.
 The remark struck at the heart of one of Mr. Obama's weaknesses, the blue-collar, Reagan Democrats who generally favored Mrs. Clinton in the primaries.
 Gov. Edward G. Rendell, a Democrat who backed Mrs. Clinton in the primary but is now hustling for Mr. Obama, indicated during the conference call Wednesday that these working-class voters were still proving elusive for Mr. Obama. He said the McCain campaign had misrepresented Mr. Obama's economic plan and had ''confused the electorate.''
 ''We haven't advanced the ball as much in that category as we have in expanding the base,'' Mr. Rendell said, referring to the addition of hundreds of thousands of new Democrats, who now outnumber registered Republicans by 1.1 million.
 The inclination of blue-collar voters toward Mr. McCain is evident in the new poll. It shows Mr. McCain with a substantial lead in the southwestern part of the state, for example, a region dominated by Reagan Democrats, and among people without college degrees. That region, and those without degrees, voted heavily for Mrs. Clinton.
 All told, the poll says, Mr. McCain wins perhaps one in five of those who went for Mrs. Clinton in the primary, which should be a big red flag to the Obama campaign that it is not connecting with those voters.
 Of two former Clinton supporters who were interviewed at the rally, they were split between Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain. Celia Fauth, 50, a real estate agent, now backs Mr. Obama while her daughter, Lindsay, 28, a marketing coordinator, is backing Mr. McCain.
 Celia Fauth said that while Mr. McCain's pick of Ms. Palin made her like him more, she said she would vote for Mr. Obama because Mr. McCain is ''too tied to Bush.'' 
 But her daughter is voting Republican because Ms. Palin''brings youth and energy,'' Lindsay Fauth said, ''and it would be wonderful to have a working mom as vice president.''
 Lancaster County, made up of small towns and the relentlessly expanding exurbs of Philadelphia, is an interesting piece of the Pennsylvania puzzle in presidential politics. While the city of Lancaster is Democratic, the county is overwhelmingly Republican. In 2004, it voted for President Bush over Senator John Kerry by 66 percent to 34 percent, even as Mr. Kerry narrowly won the state. Voters here are deeply religious and generally oppose abortion rights and gun control.
 In this year's primary, Lancaster was one of the few counties in the state where Democrats voted for Mr. Obama over Mrs. Clinton.
 And in the Republican primary, voters were not all that enthused by Mr. McCain. Even though he was already the likely nominee, Mr. McCain drew only 73 percent of the vote. Representative Ron Paul won 16 percent and former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, 11 percent.
 Now, according to the Quinnipiac poll, Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama are virtually tied here in central Pennsylvania.
 Mr. McCain needs to hold down Mr. Obama's support here because Mr. Obama will have substantial support from Philadelphia, where the poll shows him leading Mr. McCain by 3-1, as well as in Pittsburgh.
 But strikingly, Mr. McCain shows a slight lead in the Southeast, home to the state's all-important Philadelphia suburbs, where most statewide races are traditionally decided -- the battleground within the battleground. While these suburbs were staunchly Republican for decades, they have generally voted Democratic for president since 1992. 
 If the rally here on Tuesday is any indication, Ms. Palin has galvanized enthusiasm for the Republican ticket, especially among social conservatives and white women.
 Shirl Schober, 43, a real estate title searcher in Lancaster County, said that the addition of Ms. Palin to the ticket rekindled her interest in Mr. McCain.
 ''I was starting to worry; I thought he didn't want the presidency, and I was getting a little disillusioned,'' said Ms. Schober. ''But when he picked her, I decided, he does want it.''
 Ruth Ecklin, 46, a retailer in Lancaster, who brought two of her four daughters to see Ms. Palin, said, ''I'm more enthusiastic now, no question.'' They waited for two hoursoutside as part of an overflow crowd and watched her on a big screen.
 The day after the rally -- as some national Democrats began to fret publicly about the state of the race -- the Obama team held a conference call to tout the progress it had made in its ground operation in Pennsylvania.
 Mr. Schirmer, the state director, shrugged off a question about how Ms. Palin had changed the political landscape, saying she had not and that Mr. Obama was the true agent of change.
 But Mr. Rendell responded to that question by mentioning Mrs. Clinton, saying she had always planned to campaign heavily in the state even before Ms. Palin was picked.
 ''We're going to see a lot of Senator Clinton in Pennsylvania and she will be a big help in defusing some of this popularity,'' Mr. Rendell said, being careful to add that Mrs. Clinton would take on Ms. Palin on the issues, not personally.
 Mr. Obama has 54 days to try to solidify his lead here. The next potential game-changer comes in 15 days with the first presidential debate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); STATISTICS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); SPORTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); SARAH PALIN (79%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LANCASTER, PA, USA (79%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (59%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008



292 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 3001 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
AROUND TOWN
 BROOKLYN BOOK FESTIVAL
 Tucked within the list of events planned for the more than 140 authors appearing at this Sunday's book festival is a little reading called ''Brooklyn's Own,'' featuring three authors who call the borough home. It is a testament to the vitality of the Brooklyn literary scene that the reading is not the signature event of the day. The festival is not just a breeding ground for local authors, it has also become a destination for those who arrive via plane rather than subway. And that's no accident. 
 ''There are authors all over the world that reflect the ethnic background of New York City,'' said Borough President Marty Markowitz, who organizes the annual festival. ''We always say Brooklyn is home to everyone from everywhere.''
 In the heart of the festival is a stage devoted to international themes, featuring authors from Cameroon (Patrice Nganang) to Norway (Linn Ullmann) as well as Brooklyn-based talents like Adrian Tomine and John Wray, who found their literary voice abroad. 
 But even writers who are not from far-flung places are placed outside their comfort zones. Joan Didion leaves grief behind to talk politics, and Thurston Moore of Sonic Youth appears not as a musician but as a participant in a thoughtful discussion with the hard-core punk rocker Ian MacKaye about independent music and independent publishing. And A. M. Homes shares the stage with Richard Price to talk about writing for television. 
 In truth, though, all writers are forced to be foreigners even on their home turf, using an outsider's view to newly examine what seems familiar. So whether authors are from Flatbush or Stockholm, the chance to meet them and talk about their craft will make you want to buy a souvenir from your excursion. It may as well be a book. (10 a.m. to 6 p.m., Borough Hall Plaza and nearby Brooklyn Heights locations, 718-802-3852, brooklynbookfestival.org; free.) MONICA DRAKE 
 Museums and Sites
 AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Central Park West and 79th Street. Every Friday and Saturday at 7:30 and 8:30 p.m., ''SonicVision,'' an animated alternative- music show, is presented in the Rose Center; tickets, $15; $12 for members. Through Jan. 4, ''The Horse'' examines the ways in which humans and horses are linked. Through Jan. 5, ''Lizards & Snakes: Alive!,'' a display of more than 60 live reptiles from five continents. In the Imax theater, playing every hour on the half-hour from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., ''Sea Monsters: A Prehistoric Adventure,'' about reptiles found beneath the water 80 million years ago. Timed tickets to ''The Horse'' and ''Lizards & Snakes: Alive!,'' as well as tickets to Imax films, include museum admission: $24; $18 for students and 60+; $14 for those 2 to 12. Suggested general admission: $15; $11 for students and 60+; $8.50 for children. Supersaver tickets, including museum and Rose Center for Earth and Space admission, the Hayden Planetarium space show (''Cosmic Collisions'') and all special exhibitions: $32; $24.50 for students and 60+; $20 for those 2 to 12. Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. (212) 769-5100 or (212) 769-5200; amnh.org.
 MERCHANT'S HOUSE MUSEUM, 29 East Fourth Street, East Village. Wednesday at 6:30 p.m., ''Ghosts and the Paranormal,'' a discussion of paranormal research with Garrett Husveth, a ghost hunter; $20. (212) 777-1089; merchantshouse.com. 
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. Through Nov. 4, ''Campaigning for President: New York and the American Election,'' an exhibition of campaign memorabilia, including buttons, banners, posters and clothing; the display is from the collection of Jordan M. Wright, who died on May 11 and was its guest curator. Through Dec. 31, ''Catholics in New York, 1808-1946,'' an exhibition of 400 secular and religious items. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. Suggested admission: $9; $5 for students and 62+; free for children under 12 and for everyone on Sundays, 10 a.m. to noon; $20 for families. 
 PALEY CENTER FOR MEDIA, 25 West 52nd Street, Manhattan. Monday at 6:30 p.m., a screening of ''In the Family,'' a documentary about cancer by Joanna Rudnick, followed by a discussion with Ms. Rudnick and others. (212) 621-6600; paleycenter.org. $25, $15 for members. 
 Gardens
 QUEENS BOTANICAL GARDEN, 43-50 Main Street, Flushing. Saturday, 6 to 8 p.m., the Eighth Moon Festival of Asian culture, with a parade of costumed performers, beginning at Main Street and 40th Road, and lion dances, kung fu demonstrations and hot-air balloon rides in the garden. Most events are free. Parking, $5 ($3 for members) Saturdays and Sundays; free on weekdays. (718) 886-3800. queensbotanical.org.
 Events
 ANNUAL 92ND STREET Y STREETFEST, Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. on Lexington Avenue, between 79th and 94th Streets. With demonstrations and other activities for adults and children. (212) 415-5500; 92y.org. Free.
 ANNUAL WEST SIDE COUNTY FAIR, Sunday, 1 to 6 p.m., in Riverside Park South at the Hudson River, entrances at 68th and 72nd Streets. With rides, games, entertainment and pet adoptions. Sponsored by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation. Free. 
 ANNUAL UPPER BROADWAY AUTUMN FESTIVAL, Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., from 110th to 116th Street, Manhattan. 
 AUTUMN MOON FESTIVAL, Sunday, 1 to 5 p.m. on Mott Street, between Canal and Bayard Streets, Chinatown. 
 BROADWAY ON BROADWAY, Sunday, 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., Broadway, from 43rd to 47th Street. Musical numbers from Broadway shows. broadwayonbroadway.com. Free. 
 CITY CHASE, a daylong scavenger hunt and obstacle course for two-member teams through the streets of the five boroughs, on Saturday from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., beginning and ending in Tompkins Square Park, between Seventh and 10th Streets and Avenues A and B, Lower East Side. Prizes will be awarded, and the winning team will qualify for other regional, national and international competitions. Participants will be raising money for Urban Dove, an organization that offers educational and sport programs for at-risk New York City children. Fee, $190 per team. Online registration required: citychaseusa.com. 
 CONFLUX, an arts festival in Lower Manhattan devoted to public art that will feature installations, performances, lectures and other events developed by more than 100 artists, through Sunday at various locations. The main space is the Center for Architecture, 536 La Guardia Place. Schedule and other information: confluxfestival.org. 
 EAST VILLAGE BLOCK PARTY, Saturday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., on East 10th Street, between Second and Third Avenues, East Village; rain date, Sunday. Sponsored by the 10th and Stuyvesant Streets Block Association.
 EIGHTH INTERNATIONAL PICKLE DAY, Sunday, 11 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., on Orchard Street, between Grand and Broome Streets, Lower East Side. With samplings of pickles and other foods from around the world, as well as cooking demonstrations, children's activities and entertainment. Sponsored by the Lower East Side Business Improvement District and the NY Food Museum. lowereastsideny.com.
 81ST FEAST OF SAN GENNARO, daily through Sept. 21, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. (until 12:30 a.m. Fridays and Saturdays), on Mulberry Street, between Canal and Houston Streets, and on Hester and Grand Streets, between Mott and Baxter Streets, Little Italy. On Friday at 1 p.m., a cannoli-eating competition. On Saturday at 2 p.m., a procession of musicians and floats.
 11TH ANNUAL PARK SLOPE BLUEGRASS AND OLD-TIME MUSIC JAMBOREE, Friday at 8 p.m. and Saturday from 12:30 to 10:30 p.m., at the Brooklyn Society for Ethical Culture Meeting House, 53 Prospect Park West, at Second Street. (718) 768-2972. Admission: Friday, $10, $6 for children; Saturday, $4 for adults and children.
 FINANCIAL COMMUNITY DAY FESTIVAL, Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Greenwich Street, from Barclay to Warren Street, Lower Manhattan. 
 GREAT IRISH FESTIVAL, Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on the Avenue of the Americas, from 42nd to 56th Street. 
 HARVEST IN THE SQUARE, Thursday at 7:30 p.m., in Union Square Park, West Plaza at 14th Street, Manhattan. Prepared dishes from 40 restaurants in the area. Presented by the Union Square Partnership. unionsquarenyc.org. Tickets, $115 in advance, $125 on Thursday; proceeds benefit beautification programs in the park, sponsored by the partnership. 
 MEXICAN INDEPENDENCE DAY FESTIVAL, Sunday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., on 116th Street, between Second and Lexington Avenues, Manhattan. 
 MOVIES ON THE OVAL, free outdoor screenings at the Stuyvesant Town Oval, between 16th and 18th Streets and Avenues A and B, East Village. Tuesday, ''My Man Godfrey'' (1936), with William Powell and Carole Lombard; Wednesday, ''His Girl Friday'' (1940), with Cary Grant and Rosalind Russell; Thursday, ''Speedy'' (1928), with Harold Lloyd. All at 7 p.m. stuytown.com.
 ROLLER HOCKEY GAMES, Stanley Isaacs Park, 96th Street and First Avenue, Manhattan. Matches weekends through Nov. 23; finals, weekends Dec. 6 through Dec. 14. Saturday, 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.; Sunday, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., weather permitting. Sponsored by the Manhattan Roller Hockey League. (888) 674-5411; manhattanrollerhockeyleague.com. Free. 
 SIDEWALK SALE AND RAFFLE, Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., on Downing Street, between Bedford Street and Avenue of the Americas, Greenwich Village. Sponsored by the 10 Downing Street Tenants and the Bedford Downing Block Association.
 SOUTH AFRICAN CHALLENGE, a lawn bowling competition between the E.R.P.M. Bowling Club from South Africa and the New York Lawn Bowling Club, Saturday, from 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. on the Bowling Green of Central Park, at West 69th Street, north of the Sheep Meadow. nybowls.com. Free. Rain date, Sunday. 
 STATEN ISLAND MUSEUM 58TH ANNUAL FENCE SHOW, Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., at the Snug Harbor Cultural Center, along the fence on Snug Harbor Road and Kissel Avenue, Livingston; rain date, Sept. 21. With food and entertainment. (718) 483-7106; statenislandmuseum.org. Free. 
 SUN TO STARS FESTIVAL, a celebration of South Asian arts, Saturday, 4 to 11 p.m., at Solar One in Stuyvesant Cove Park, 23rd Street and the East River, Manhattan; rain date, Sunday. solar1.org. Free. TARGET 1958 NIGHT ON-SALE PARTY, to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, on Saturday, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., in the passageway next to New York City Center, West 55th Street between Avenue of the Americas and Seventh Avenue. Reduced tickets, at $19.58 each, will be available for the company's 8 p.m. performance on Dec. 4 at City Center; there will also be free dance classes, a D.J., screenings of Ailey dance films and other activities. alvinailey.org/target1958.
 TUDOR CITY FESTIVAL, Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Lexington Avenue, from 42nd to 53rd Street, Manhattan.
 UNITY WALK, a one-mile walk beginning Sunday at 5 p.m. in Battery Park, passing the World Trade Center site, and ending with a ceremony at St. Peter's Roman Catholic Church, 22 Barclay Street. Sponsored by Religions for Peace-USA, the Interfaith Center of New York, United Sikhs, the International Society for Krishna Consciousness, St. Peter's Roman Catholic Church and One Spirit Interfaith Seminary. 911unitywalk.org.
 WEST FOURTH STREET FESTIVAL, Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., from Avenue of the Americas to University Place, West Village.
 Spoken Word
 CENTER FOR JEWISH HISTORY, 15 West 16th Street, Flatiron District. Monday at 7 p.m., ''Primo Levi: Historian and Public Figure,'' part of a conference also sponsored by the Centro Primo Levi, New York University's Casa Italiana Zerilli-Marimo and the Italian Cultural Institute. cjh.org; primolevicenter.org. $15, $10 for members. Ticket information: (212) 868-4444. 
 CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK GRADUATE CENTER, 365 Fifth Avenue, at 34th Street. Wednesday, 2 to 8 p.m., a symposium on the Brazilian writer Machado de Assis, with discussions, readings and music; part of a citywide celebration of the writer. web.gc.cuny.edu/hispanic/machado21. Free. 
 FREEBIRD BOOKS, 123 Columbia Street, Cobble Hill, Brooklyn. Thursday at 7:30 p.m., a discussion on being an Arab in America, by Moustafa Bayoumi, author of ''How Does It Feel to Be a Problem?'' (718) 643-8484; freebirdbooks.com. Free. 
 THETIMESCENTER, 242 West 41st Street, Manhattan. Monday at 7 p.m., '' 'Saturday Night Live' and Presidential Politics,'' a discussion with members of the television show's staff, including Lorne Michaels, executive producer; Seth Meyers, head writer and cast member; Amy Poehler, cast member; and James Downey, writer. Sponsored by the Museum of the Moving Image. (718) 784-4520; movingimage.us. $30, $15 for members. 
 Walking Tours
 ART GALLERY WALKING TOUR IN CHELSEA Saturday at 1 p.m., a tour of eight modern-art galleries, meeting at 526 West 26th Street. Sponsored by nygallerytours.com. (212) 946-1548. $20.
 CHINATOWN MOON FESTIVAL MEANDER, sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring, meeting Sunday at noon, 2 and 4 p.m. on the southwest corner of Canal and Mulberry Streets. (212) 265-2663. $10. 
 CROSSING DELANCEY, Sunday at 11:15 a.m., a Lower East Side walk that includes stops at historic synagogues, meeting at Congregation Chasam Sofer, Clinton and Houston Streets. Sponsored by the Lower East Side Jewish Conservancy. (212) 374-4100. $18; $16 for 62+ and students.
 HARLEM TOURS Saturday at 2 p.m., ''Harlem -- So Much to See,'' offered by Bernie's New York, meeting on the southwest corner of Amsterdam Avenue and 138th Street; $15. (718) 655-1883. Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m., ''The Harlem You Never Knew,'' led by NYC Discovery Tours, including a look at the area's importance in the Revolutionary War; $16; reservations and meeting place: (212) 465-3331. Sunday at 10:15 a.m., ''Experience the Beauty of Harlem Gospel,'' including a talk about the history of the area, with a stop at an art gallery and a gospel church service, meeting at Harlem Your Way!, 129 West 130th Street; an optional meal follows; reservations required: (212) 690-1687. $27
 IN-DEPTH WALKING TOURS Saturday at 11 a.m., ''Revolution in the Streets,'' a look at 1775 New York, meeting at Fraunces Tavern, Pearl and Broad Streets, Lower Manhattan. Sunday at 11 a.m., ''The Legend of Margaret Corbin,'' covering Upper Manhattan and the Revolutionary War, with a discussion of a woman who took up arms with the colonists, meeting on the northwest corner of Broadway and 207th Street, Inwood. (917) 607-9019. Each, $20.
 METRO TOUR SERVICE Friday through Sunday at 2 p.m., visiting Brooklyn Heights, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill, meeting in front of the Marriott Hotel, Adams and Tillary Streets, downtown Brooklyn; (718) 789-0430. $25.
 MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY Saturday at 11 a.m., a tour of TriCeCa, meeting on the northwest corner of Broadway and White Street. Sunday at 11 a.m., the site of the World Trade Center, meeting on the southeast corner of Broadway and Park Row. (212) 439-1049. mas.org. Each, $15, $12 for members. 
 NEW YORK TALKS AND WALKS Saturday at 7 p.m., ''Twilight Walk of the Brooklyn Bridge Waterfalls,'' meeting outside Starbucks, 38 Park Row, Lower Manhattan. Sunday at 2 p.m., the Jewish Heritage of the Lower East Side, meeting outside the Economy Candy Store, 108 Rivington Street. (888) 699-2550. Each, $15. 
 PATRIOTS AND REBELS, a tour of Lower Manhattan sites relevant to the Revolutionary War, meeting Saturday at 11 a.m. in front of Bowling Green Park, at Bowling Green and Broadway. Sponsored by Bowery and Canal Walking Tours. (917) 602-3543. $15; $12 for students and 65+. 
 SHOREWALKERS Two Brooklyn tours. Saturday at 11 a.m., a four-mile walk in Coney Island and Brighton Beach, meeting at Nathan's, Surf and Stillwell Avenues; (516) 466-8673. Sunday at 11 a.m., a five-mile walk along the Narrows to Coney Island, meeting at the 95th Street stop on the R train. (201) 332-1709. $3 each; free for members. 
 TOUR FOUR SQUARES IN MANHATTAN, a walk with the Urban Park Rangers from Madison Square Park to Tompkins Square, with stops in between including Union and Stuyvesant Squares, meeting Saturday at 11 a.m. at Madison Square Park, 26th Street and Fifth Avenue. nyc.gov/parks/rangers. Free. 
 URBAN TRAIL CONFERENCE Sunday at 12:45 p.m., a five-mile East River promenade, meeting at the Rusk Institute, 400 East 34th Street, Manhattan. urbantrail.org; $3.
 WALL STREET HISTORY Sunday at 11 a.m., meeting at 57 Wall Street, near William Street, Lower Manhattan. Sponsored by 1792 Wall Street Walks. (212) 666-0175; 1792wallstreetwalks.com. $20.
 Recreation
 2008 KOMEN NEW YORK CITY RACE FOR THE CURE Sunday at 9 a.m. in Central Park, a five-kilometer race and walk, beginning at Central Park West and 77th Street. Registration begins at 7 a.m. Sponsored by the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation. (212) 560-9590; komennyc.org. Advance registration: $25; race day: $35. 
 HALF-MARATHON GRAND PRIX: QUEENS, a 13.1-mile run, beginning Sunday at 7 a.m. on Poppenhusen Avenue near 119th Street, College Point. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners Club. (212) 860-4455; nyrr.org. Advance registration: $30; $20 for members; $14 for 18 and younger and 62+. Race-day registration: $35; $25 for members; $15 for 18 and younger and 62+.
 JAMAICA BAY FRINGE BIKE TOUR, a 10-mile ride through Queens and Brooklyn, meeting Saturday at 3 p.m. in Queens at the Beach 67th Street stop on the A train. Sponsored by the Center for the Urban Environment. (718) 788-8500, Ext. 217. $13, $10 for members, $8 for students and 62+; riders should provide their own bicycles and a spare tire. 
 WALK TO BEAT THE CLOCK, a four-kilometer walk to raise awareness of cervical cancer prevention, Saturday, in Carl Schurz Park, East End Avenue and 86th Street, Manhattan. Registration begins at 8 a.m.; the walk is at 9:15 a.m., followed by entertainment and speakers. tamikaandfriends.org. Fee, $30 (free for children 12 and younger); proceeds benefit education programs of Tamika and Friends, sponsor of the walk. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (85%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); HORSES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); MUSIC (70%); HISTORY (65%); POP & ROCK (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); CAMEROON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008



293 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit at 16-Month High in July

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The trade deficit reached a 16-month high in July as oil prices hit a record, the government said on Thursday.
 A separate report said that prices of imports other than petroleum dipped slightly last month, an encouraging sign that inflation may have slowed in August. And the Labor Department reported that the number of Americans remaining on unemployment rolls last week stayed near a five-year high, another troubling sign for the labor market. 
 The United States imported $62.2 billion more in goods and services than it exported in July, a 5.7 percent increase from June, the Commerce Department reported. 
 Imports were up 3.9 percent to $230.3 billion for the month, largely because of the surging cost of foreign petroleum and oil-derived products. Americans bought more foreign-made industrial goods, capital goods and foods and beverages, but cut back on purchases of foreign automobiles and consumer goods.
 July exports totaled $168.1 billion, a 3.3 percent increase from June. Demand rose for motor vehicles, consumer goods and industrial products.
 Exports have been a critical pillar of the United States economy this year. As Americans reduced their spending and put off major purchases, an increasing amount of the revenue for domestic businesses have come from overseas. A weak dollar made American goods more attractive, although the currency has strengthened against the euro, the yen and the British pound in recent weeks.
 Economists and investors will be eager to see how export sales are affected in August, after oil prices began their two-month decline. The price of crude oil is down more than 25 percent since the middle of July.
 A report from the Labor Department on Thursday offered something of a preview of those numbers. Prices of imports fell 3.7 percent in August, the first drop since the end of the last year and the biggest monthly decline since the government started keeping records on the subject in 1988.
 For the most part, the decline was the result of lower oil prices. Outside of petroleum products, import prices dipped 0.3 percent. That is a small decrease, but it suggests that inflation may have slowed or paused in August. More detailed reports on last month's inflation data are due out Friday and next week.
 Export prices fell 1.7 percent in August, the first decline since October 2006, as the dollar weakened during the same period. Lower prices for exported corn, soybeans and wheat led the declines. 
 The price of exports was still 8.2 percent higher last month than in August 2007. And import prices were up 16 percent in the last year.
 In a separate report, the Labor Department said that new applications for jobless benefits fell by 6,000 last week to a seasonally adjusted level of 445,000, above what economists had expected.
 The number of Americans who have remained on unemployment rolls rose, up 122,000 to 3.53 million, near the highest level in five years.
 The economy lost 84,000 jobs in August, according to the Labor Department, and the unemployment rate jumped to 6.1 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Imported cars at the Port of Newark. Americans bought fewer foreign automobiles in July, but the trade deficit surged on high oil prices and more purchases of foreign-made industrial goods.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart shows bar and line graph . 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (91%); IMPORT PRICES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); BRITISH POUND (65%); EURO (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008



294 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Speculative Bets by Index Funds Didn't Push Oil Prices Up, Report Says

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
Conventional wisdom in Washington holds that speculative money flooding into the market from index funds pushed up oil prices earlier this year. 
 But a regulatory report released Thursday shows that those funds actually were cutting their stake in the oil market as prices were soaring. 
 That data, based on private trading data gathered by market regulators, contradicts parts of a report released by Washington lawmakers on Wednesday.
 That earlier report, by Michael W. Masters and Alan K. White, blamed high commodity prices on the growing role of institutional investors, specifically index funds. It was cited by several lawmakers as proof that new rules were needed to curb the impact of speculation on commodity prices.
 But the new 69-page study, by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, shows that, rather than rising, the stake of index funds in the oil market actually declined in the first half of this year.
 ''That certainly doesn't mesh with the story Mr. Masters is telling,'' said Prof. Dwight R. Sanders, an agricultural economist at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale, who has studied both reports. 
 The dollar value of those fund positions did rise, to $51 billion from about $39 billion, according to the new study. But the increase reflects only the impact of rising oil prices -- not the flow of new money into the market, the report found.
 When counted in terms of separate futures contracts, the funds' stake fell 11 percent during that period, to 363,000 contracts from 408,000 contracts, according to the study.
 The study also showed that index funds have a much smaller share of the market than previously estimated -- 17 percent of all futures and options involving domestically traded commodities, as of June 30. Their net stake in oil markets was just 13 percent, not the 70 percent or more cited in previous estimates.
 Mr. Masters, a hedge fund manager who has frequently testified before Congress, said in an e-mail message Thursday that he was ''delving into the numbers'' in the new C.F.T.C. report ''to understand what they do and do not encompass.'' He hoped to have more to say when he testified on Tuesday before a Senate energy subcommittee, he added.
 The commission has come under withering criticism this summer, accused of failing to curtail excessive speculation in commodity markets. But so far, legislation aimed at limiting institutional commodity investments has stalled.
 The report does offer some support for the agency's critics. The agency found that on about three dozen occasions, none involving illegal trading, the total stake of 18 commercial traders exceeded regulatory limits or guidelines when their over-the-counter swaps positions were added to their stake on public exchanges.
 And the commission acknowledged that it needed better tools for measuring market activity, especially in the swaps market. 
 It is recommending several changes, including new disclosure rules for swaps dealers and the creation of a new office of data collection. It also called for a substantial increase in agency staff and resources to handle these expanded data-gathering duties.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); FUTURES (90%); INDEX FUNDS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); TESTIMONY (85%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (56%); SOUTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008



295 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2386 words

HEADLINE: Films in Review

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS, NATHAN LEE, NEIL GENZLINGER, ANDY WEBSTER and LAURA KERN

 BODY:
FLOW
 Opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles. 
 Directed by Irena Salina
 1 hour 24 minutes; not rated 
 A documentary and a three-alarm warning, ''Flow'' dives into our planet's most essential resource -- and third-largest industry -- to find pollution, scarcity, human suffering and corporate profit. And that's just in the United States.
 Yet Irena Salina's astonishingly wide-ranging film is less depressing than galvanizing, an informed and heartfelt examination of the tug of war between public health and private interests. From the dubious quality of our tap water (possibly laced with rocket fuel) to the terrifyingly unpoliced contents of bottled brands (one company pumped from the vicinity of a Superfund site), the movie ruthlessly dismantles our assumptions about water safety and government oversight.
 Still reeling, we're given a distressing glimpse of regions embroiled in bitter battles against privatization. In South Africa, villagers drink from stagnant ponds, unable to pay for the water that once was free, and protesters in Bolivia -- where waste from a slaughterhouse is dumped into Lake Titicaca -- brave gunfire to demand unrestricted access to potable water. 
 And lest we begin to comfort ourselves with first-world distance, Ms. Salina cleverly frames this section with the protracted conflict between the residents of Mecosta County, Mich., and the gluttonous demands of a Nestle bottling plant.
 Naming names and identifying culprits (hello, World Bank), ''Flow'' is designed to awaken the most somnolent consumer. At the very least it should make you think twice before you take that (unfiltered) shower. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS
 LOINS OF PUNJAB PRESENTS
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan. 
 Directed by Manish Acharya
 1 hour 28 minutes; not rated 
 ''Loins of Punjab Presents,'' a witty musical comedy with a sharp political edge, is built on a satisfyingly simple premise. Over the course of a weekend a motley crew of contestants gathers in a New Jersey hotel to compete in ''Desi Idol,'' an ''American Idol''-style singing competition sponsored by a local pork-loin empire. 
 The songs come from Bollywood, with the contestants drawn, for the most part, from the area's South Asian immigrant community, the exception being a certain Josh Cohen (Michael Raimondi), lover of Indian culture (and of a girl from Mumbai) who dreams of starting a ''joga'' craze (jogging plus yoga). 
 The droll, affable cast includes a shy, pretty girl (Ishitta Sharma) with a domineering family; a Machiavellian socialite (Shabana Azmi); a struggling actress (Ayesha Dharker) who, like Margaret Cho, is deemed ''not Asian enough'' by casting directors; and a politicized, would-be bhangra rapper who calls himself the Turbanotorious BDG (Ajay Naidu) and shows up with tons of attitude and a hot male lover (Kory Bassett). 
 Directed with a cheerful touch by Manish Acharya from a warm, insightful screenplay he wrote with Anuvab Pal, ''Loins of Punjab'' joins show-time antics to sociocultural commentary without reducing its characters, colorful as they are, to cartoons. NATHAN LEE 
 THE LITTLE RED TRUCK
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan. 
 Directed by Rob Whitehair
 1 hour 38 minutes
 All year long, all across North America, the bright-eyed actor-directors of the Missoula Children's Theater disembark from their little red trucks in towns both big (Los Angeles) and small (Somerton, Ariz.) to put on shows. 
 On Monday they hold auditions with the local children. By Tuesday they're rehearsing a musical version of a classic story: ''Robin Hood,'' ''The Little Mermaid.'' By Friday, they hope, all the kids know their lines, songs and cues, and by Saturday it's on with the costumes, on with the dress rehearsal and on to the big night: the performance of an hourlong musical that has come together -- more or less -- in just one week. 
 And then the group picks up and heads off to tickle the fancy and widen the horizons of the next batch of grinning, goofy peewees (as the littlest ones are called) in, say, Rankin Inlet, Nunavut, Canada.
 This is the story of ''The Little Red Truck,'' a documentary by the filmmaker Rob Whitehair, and if it sounds like the cutest thing in the history of cuteness, that's because it is. It would take a superhuman capacity for cynicism to resist the radiant optimism of the Missoula Children's Theater players and the unabashed pep of this joyful portrait. Sure, this sweet little movie isn't going to change the world, but when those little red trucks roll up, and all those little eyes light up, that's exactly what happens. NATHAN LEE
 ''The Little Red Truck'' is rated PG (Parental guidance suggested). It includes very mild discussions of children with domestic and schoolyard troubles.
 GREETINGS FROM THE SHORE
 Opens on Friday in New York, New Jersey and Philadelphia. 
 Directed by Greg Chwerchak
 1 hour 56 minutes
 The problem with having a big-name actor in your small film is that he tends to underscore the inexperience of some of your other stars. 
 That's the effect Paul Sorvino has in ''Greetings From the Shore,'' a watchable-enough summer-at-the-beach tale billed as Gabrielle Berberich's first feature as writer and producer. (Parts of the story are drawn from her own summers in Lavallette, a New Jersey shore town.) 
 It stars Kim Shaw as a teenager spending her first solo summer in the New Jersey beach town where her family had gone for years. She lands a job teaching English to a group of mysterious foreigners who are employed by the local yacht club and falls for a particularly good-looking one (David Fumero). 
 Ms. Shaw is, at least at this point, the type of actress you find on the Disney Channel: genetically unable, even when crying, to project anything other than ''cute'' and never quite able to shake the ''Hey, I'm on camera!'' look. 
 That's harmless enough in this type of warm-weather reminiscence, until Mr. Sorvino, a real actor and a good one, shows up. He plays a down-on-his-luck fisherman who takes the girl under his wing, and he makes Ms. Shaw and some of the other cast members look like amateurs. The director, Greg Chwerchak (who also gets a writing credit), doesn't help; he allows several secondary characters to become thudding cliches, trampling the delicate story. NEIL GENZLINGER
 ''Greetings From the Shore'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian), supposedly for language, though there is nothing here that would scandalize younger teenagers, the audience who would most enjoy this film.
 Christmas on Mars
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan. 
 Directed by Wayne Coyne
 1 hour 25 minutes; not rated
 Many rock bands have a moment when they flirt with cinema, but the best efforts are not slick productions like ''Purple Rain'' or ''The Wall.'' They're more like the Monkees' ''Head,'' say, or Led Zeppelin's ''Song Remains the Same'': endearingly ragged projects, destined for cult status. For the Oklahoma group the Flaming Lips, that movie is ''Christmas on Mars.'' 
 There are no musical performances on screen, but many appearances by band members, including the singer Wayne Coyne (as a horned alien) and Steven Drozd (as a haunted astronaut in a claustrophobic red-planet outpost). Actors like Fred Armisen, from ''Saturday Night Live,'' and Adam Goldberg, as well as Isaac Brock of the band Modest Mouse, also have roles.
 The story -- I think -- is that oxygen is running out on Christmas Eve; Mr. Coyne, whoalso directed, arrives in a glowing orb (he says nothing, ensuring maximum mystique) and is persuaded by Mr. Drozd to don a Santa suit. But forget plot. It's all about textures: black-and-white images with psychedelic bursts; dashes of David Lynch, the '70s midnight movie ''Dark Star'' and ''2001''; an echo of ''The Wizard of Oz''; and, in a riff on maternity, maybe an iota of ''The Matrix,'' abetted with homemade-looking but sometimes lyrical effects. 
 As for the soundtrack, fans of the excellent Lips album ''Yoshimi Battles the Pink Robots'' will know the dreamy ambience to expect. Dude, pass the munchies. ANDY WEBSTER
 SECRECY
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan. 
 Directed by Peter Galison and Robb Moss
 1 hour 20 minutes; not rated
 ''Secrecy'' prowls through the labyrinth of information suppression and, as might be expected in so murky a milieu, winds up a little lost. Directed by Peter Galison and Robb Moss, this nebulous yet evocative documentary is galvanized by the consolidation of executive power under the Bush administration and its growing use of the state-secrets privilege in the post-9/11 era.
 ''Secrecy'' is equal parts history lesson, meditative essay, didactic poem and call to arms. If the movie follows no single thread of inquiry, nor sustains any argument or research in depth, it nevertheless explores some chilling corridors of the clandestine.
 ''Secrecy'' acknowledges the necessity, in principle, of hiding certain types of critical information. In practice, the film finds much to be troubled about, starting with the momentous 1953 Supreme Court decision in United States v. Reynolds that set the legal precedent for the state-secrets privilege and was later revealed to have been founded on dubious grounds. 
 Developing its analysis of what it calls ''the modern secrecy system,'' a shadowy concept that never quite reveals itself, the movie touches on the push-pull dynamic of the government versus the press; the culture clash between those shaped by the cold-war paradigm of information hoarding and those alert to the networked sensibility of the Internet era; the private toll of covering up; and the great danger to the public of secrecy for its own sake. NATHAN LEE 
 FORGIVENESS
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan. 
 Directed by Udi Aloni
 In English, Hebrew and Arabic, with English subtitles
 1 hour 37 minutes; not rated 
 Jewish mental patients and murdered Palestinians unite to solve the problems of the Middle East in ''Forgiveness,'' a mystifying mishmash of ghost story and group therapy.
 Flashing backward, forward, up and down, the movie's bewildering plot follows David (Itay Tiran), a young Israeli-American with unresolved identity issues. To spite his famous father (Michael Sarne), David enlists in the Israeli Army, where a tragic incident leaves him virtually catatonic. Committed to a mental hospital on the site of a Jewish massacre of a Palestinian village, David bounces between a drug that promises to erase the past and another patient (Moni Moshonov) who urges him to discuss it with the skeletons the inmates are busily exhuming. 
 As dream sequences collide with musical theater, and the agitated shade of a dead girl reappears as the daughter of David's unlikely Palestinian lover, ''Forgiveness'' juggles a perplexing number of themes, philosophies and aesthetics. Caught in an endless loop of repressed memories and spiritual aphorisms, the screenplay (by Paul Hond and Udi Aloni, who also directs) disdains to say once what it can repeat several times. The message may be clear -- suppress the past at your peril -- but the execution is a mess. As for the line-dancing soldiers, your guess is as good as mine. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS
 THE TREE OF LIFE
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan. 
 Directed by Hava Volterra
 1 hour 16 minutes; not rated 
 The death of her father, Vittorio, propelled Hava Volterra, an engineer and transplant to Los Angeles from Israel, to explore and document her family's Jewish Italian roots, about which Vittorio was puzzlingly tight-lipped.
 With her aunt, Viviana, a spirited octogenarian puppeteer, in tow, she travels throughout Italy and Israel. They visit, among other places, the university where Ms. Volterra's dad studied physics and the Jewish ghetto in Venice, where he was raised. 
 There's no question that Ms. Volterra has some fascinating ancestors -- including Italy's first Jewish prime minister and the former New York mayor Fiorello La Guardia -- and that ''The Tree of Life,'' despite an onslaught of dates and facts that often come too rapidly to be absorbed, offers an interesting history lesson about Jews in Italy since the 13th century. (Psychedelic sequences with digitally enhanced marionettes serve as the most inventive re-creations of past events.) 
 But there's also a prevailing sense of premeditation; for example, the camera is conveniently trained on Viviana when she receives the call to join her niece. Ms. Volterra, acting as narrator and interviewee herself, can't seem to resist the urge to be the star of her own film, which too often feels like a wearisome exercise in self-therapy. LAURA KERN 
 PROUD AMERICAN
 Opens on Friday nationwide. 
 Directed by Fred Ashman
 1 hour 45 minutes; rated G 
 ''Proud American,'' a series of dramatic vignettes about tolerance and can-do spirit, aspires to be inspirational, but suffers from its shameless, jackhammer-style manipulation. When a movie, in its opening, says its sponsors (Coca-Cola, MasterCard, Wal-Mart and American Airlines) had no influence on its content, but sticks their logos in the credits, you are suspicious of just who might be calling the shots. 
 As if that weren't enough, two sequences recreate the early days of Coke and Wal-Mart (yes, actors play the young Sam and Helen Walton), invoking both corporate behemoths as examples of singular ingenuity. 
 So, the stories: a girl comes to the States from Southeast Asia with her family, overcomes prejudice, marries and becomes a software entrepreneur with her husband; a Jewish family is supported by their neighborhood when skinheads vandalize their home; a boy from the South Side of Chicago transcends his rough neighborhood and becomes a doctor; a Navy Seal loses the use of his legs but triumphs as a wheelchair athlete. 
 These accounts, starring fading television faces like James B. Sikking (the SWAT leader on ''Hill Street Blues'') and Ken Howard (''The White Shadow'') proceed in their blunt, Hallmark-moment way. Punctuating the relentless bathos are appearances by the comedian Yakov Smirnoff (you remember: ''America -- what a country!'') and montage barrages of sun-saturated landscapes, national monuments and softball games, accompanied by generic choral singing. Moviegoers are actually expected to pay for this hollow uplift. Don't even consider it. ANDY WEBSTER 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Making North America safe for musicals: ''The Little Red Truck'' follows the Missoula Children's Theater as it moves from town to town, putting on shows.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TREE AND SKY MEDIA ARTS)
Ajay Naidu, left, and Kory Bassett in ''Loins of Punjab Presents,'' a musical comedy with a political edge.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EMERGING PICTURES)
 In ''Forgiveness,'' Itay Tiran plays a patient in a mental hospital.(PHOTOGRAPH BY INTERNATIONAL FILM CIRCUIT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (89%); MOVIE CASTING (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); FILM (76%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (74%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); PORK (72%); SUPERFUND (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); YOGA (70%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (69%); LAKES (67%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (66%); RAP MUSIC (62%); HIP HOP CULTURE (60%); REALITY TELEVISION (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: NESTLE SA (54%)

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PUNJAB, INDIA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (88%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008



296 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Vision in Pocket, and Seeing Beyond Kansas

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

DATELINE: LAWRENCE, Kan. 

 BODY:
There is no playbook in Todd Reesing's backpack, only business textbooks and three back copies of his favorite read: The Economist, the weekly newsmagazine that he says gives him a concise overview of what is going on in the world. He has a broad vision for a numbers guy. 
 Last year as a sophomore quarterback, Reesing saw the football field well enough to throw for 3,486 yards and 33 touchdowns and lead the Jayhawks to a 12-1 season and a victory in the Orange Bowl over Virginia Tech. When he faces South Florida on Friday in a battle of undefeated and ranked teams, Reesing will do so as the nation's top-rated passer, completing 76.7 percent of his passes and throwing for six touchdowns. 
 He is perhaps more dazzling in the classroom. Reesing earned first-team academic all-Big 12 honors last year as a dual major in economics and finance, and he is on an accelerated track to graduate next fall. This week, for example, he was just as consumed with calculating marketing and revenue projections for an imaginary hand lotion -- part of an independent study course -- as he was preparing for the No. 19-ranked Bulls.
 Reesing says he sees himself perhaps clearer than most.
 ''I have aspirations beyond football,'' he said. ''I want to travel internationally and get my master's in business. I'm enjoying being a college quarterback, but I'm pretty sure professional football is not really in the future.''
 In fact, no one really thought Reesing was good enough to play big-time college football. He is listed at 5 feet 11 inches and 200 pounds, but coming from classes in shorts and a polo shirt he looks ordinary by intramural standards.
 It did not matter that Reesing had thrown for more than 3,300 yards and 41 touchdowns as a senior at Lake Travis High School in Austin, Tex. It did not matter that as a junior, he was named the Texas 4A offensive player of the year over Matthew Stafford, who then was considered the No. 1 quarterback prospect in the nation and now leads No. 2 Georgia. Reesing was deemed too short by the teams he grew up wanting to play for -- Texas and Texas A&M.
 His father, Steve, sent him to summer camps and helped put together highlight video tapes and a resume that emphasized the fact that Todd was ranked No. 4 academically in his high school class. His mother, Debi, a schoolteacher, thought Northwestern and Duke, which had showed interest in her son, were fine universities to prepare for graduate school, something she has made a requirement for each of her three children.
 ''I guess these schools were looking at a statistical size, judging him off a clipboard, and what they missed was how smart and talented and competitive he is,'' Steve Reesing said. ''I probably got more frustrated than he did.''
 It was Steve Reesing who got Todd's highlight reel and resume to his old college roommate, Tom Stoetzner, who passed it to his son, Jake, who lived here near the Kansas campus. With luck and persistence, Jake Stoetzner got it to the Jayhawks' coaching staff. At first, Coach Mark Mangino was more curious than impressed: There is no getting around the fact Reesing is undersized.
 When Reesing visited campus, however, Mangino was struck by his confidence, which was cocksure, but not arrogant. When Reesing graduated early from high school so he could enroll at Kansas and participate in spring practice, Mangino saw where that confidence was born: in hard work that continues to pay dividends.
 ''He worked at his game hard in the off-season, in the summer,'' Mangino said. ''I think he is getting rid of the ball quicker than he was a year ago. He is doing a better job of keeping his eyes downfield when he leaves the pocket. He is more confident than he was a year ago because he experienced an entire season and he knows what to expect.''
 Still, despite his numbers and the Jayhawks' No. 13 ranking, Reesing has failed to enter the conversation about the nation's best quarterbacks. In fact, he is considered only the third best arm in the Big 12 behind Missouri's Chase Daniels and Oklahoma's Sam Bradford.
 ''I wouldn't trade Todd for anyone from anywhere,'' Mangino said flatly.
 Reesing, the once too-small quarterback prospect, is too self aware to measure himself by others. He was never worried that he was not equipped physically to play college football because he knew he had more to offer. 
 He is eyeing an international business program in Copenhagen, and continues to take seriously his classes in economic growth and statistics. He also wears out the pages of The Economist.
 ''I read it between classes, between meetings,'' he said. ''I like to know what is going on in the rest of the world, and how the rest of the world thinks about us. I guess I don't want to be an ignorant American college student.''
 Better than most perhaps, Reesing has integrated his thirst for knowledge into his passion for football. Just as he knows he cannot be taller or throw farther than his arm is capable, he knows he can outthink many of his opponents.
 ''If you think about it, football can be a lot like school,'' he said. ''You sit in a desk for meetings, take notes in a notebook, and break down film, and study a playbook. It's problem solving.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 13, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about quarterback Todd Reesing's academic and athletic success at Kansas omitted a passage at the continuation in some copies. It should have read, ''It did not matter that as a junior, he was named the Texas 4A offensive player of the year over Matthew Stafford, who then was considered the No. 1 quarterback prospect in the nation and now leads No. 2 Georgia.'' The article also misspelled the surname of a fellow quarterback in the Big 12 Conference. He is Missouri's Chase Daniel, not Daniels. (The full article is at nytimes.com/sports.) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM MCISAAC/GETTY IMAGES)(D1)
 The Kansas junior Todd Reesing has a dual major in economics and finance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. NEWMAN LOWRANCE/GETTY IMAGES)(D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); TEXTBOOKS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); SPORTS AWARDS (71%); INDEPENDENT STUDY (68%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (52%) TEXAS, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008



297 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: STOCKS & BONDS Market Climbs After a Bleak Beginning

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Stocks staged a strong comeback Thursday afternoon after an initial plunge at the opening bell, as a drop in oil prices helped placate fears about problems at some of the nation's biggest banks.
 The Dow Jones industrial average jumped in the last half hour of trading, gaining 164.79 points. The blue-chip index swung back from a 125-point drop just minutes after the open to close at 11,443.71. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 1.38 percent, or 17.01 points, to 1,249.05. The Nasdaq composite index gained 1.3 percent, or 29.52 points, to 2,258.22.
 Despite the turmoil surrounding Lehman Brothers, and widespread speculation that the 158-year-old firm was shopping itself to potential buyers, the stock market has gained in three out of four trading sessions this week. In the Dow, two of those gains were in the triple digits. Lehman shares closed down 42 percent, at $4.22. 
 Some investors were buoyed by the decline in oil prices, which fell $1.71 to settle at $100.87 a barrel. It was the third consecutive session that showed a decline, and at least one contract was exchanged on the trading floor at $100.10, a dime above what could be an enormous psychological milestone in oil's recent downward journey. Oil prices are off more than 30 percent since hitting a record high exactly two months ago. 
 The decline on Thursday came despite fears that Hurricane Ike could disrupt Gulf Coast refineries as it headed toward Texas and Louisiana. 
 ''It's a bearish signal that oil is dropping at the base of a category 3, category 4 hurricane,'' Ben Dell, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said. News that Saudi Arabia would continue pumping oil despite a move by OPEC to cut back supplies also pushed prices lower.
 Still, investors remained worried that Wall Street's major financial institutions could face another crisis akin to the Bear Stearns meltdown in March. Their fears have been stoked by persistent rumors about Lehman, which is struggling to raise more capital. 
 The bank had insisted its financial condition was sound, despite suffering the worst quarterly loss in the company's 158-year history. In the last 24 hours, as confidence in Lehman spiraled lower, the bank's chairman and chief executive, Richard S. Fuld Jr., has stepped up efforts to sell the bank, according to people briefed on the conversations. 
 Thursday's moves in the market suggested that these efforts were falling on deaf ears. Lehman's stock has lost 74 percent of its value this week alone.
 Several major Wall Street banks issued pessimistic reports on Lehman's prospects on Thursday morning, saying that Mr. Fuld's plan effectively amounted to too little, too late.
 ''Management did not successfully put to rest the issues that had been pressuring the stock,'' a Goldman Sachs analyst, William Tanona, wrote on Thursday. Mr. Tanona joined analysts from Citigroup and Merrill Lynch in downgrading their ratings on Lehman's stock. 
 Shares of nearly every major investment bank dropped sharply on Thursday, though some recovered. Merrill Lynch stock finished down 16.6 percent; Morgan Stanley lost 0.5 percent; and Citigroup was off 0.4 percent.
 Washington Mutual, the country's biggest savings and loan, fell nearly 20 percent, beneath $2 a share, before climbing back to positive territory in the afternoon. Shares of the company ended 22 percent higher.
 Discouraging data on the economy released on Thursday morning did not help the mood on Wall Street. New applications for unemployment benefits dropped by 6,000 last week, to a seasonally adjusted 445,000 claims, above what economists had expected. The number of Americans who remained on unemployment rolls remained near the highest level in five years.
 The trade deficit widened by 5.7 percent in July, spurred by energy prices, the Commerce Department said in a separate report. The deficit reached a 16-month high, as export and import sales both rose.
 The dollar also reached its highest point against the euro in a year.
 Following are the results of Thursday's auction of 10-year Treasury notes:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg) Chart shows line graph.
Tax-Exempt Yields: Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly.(Source: The Bond Buyer)
 Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities.(Source: F.H.L.M.C.) Charts show line graphs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HURRICANES (86%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (71%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (71%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%)

PERSON: RICHARD S FULD (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008



298 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Obama Raises Level of Attack As Party Frets

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama will intensify his assault against Senator John McCain, with new television advertisements and more forceful attacks by the candidate and surrogates beginning Friday morning, as he confronts an invigorated Republican presidential ticket and increasing nervousness in the Democratic ranks.
 Mr. McCain's choice of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as his running mate and the resulting jolt of energy among Republican voters appear to have caught Mr. Obama and his advisers by surprise and added to concern among some Democrats that the Obama campaign was not pushing back hard enough against Republican attacks in a critical phase of the race.
 Some Democrats said Mr. Obama needed to move to seize control of the campaign and to block Mr. McCain from snatching away from him the message that he was the best hope to bring change to Washington.
 After back-to-back attack ads by Mr. McCain, including one that misleadingly accused Mr. Obama of endorsing sex education for kindergarten students, the Obama campaign is planning to sharpen attacks on Mr. McCain and Ms. Palin in an effort to counter Mr. McCain's attempt to present himself as the candidate of change with his choice of Ms. Palin. 
 The new tone is to be presented in a speech by Mr. Obama in New Hampshire and in television interviews with local stations in five swing states, backed up by new advertisements and appearances across the country by supporters.
 In addition, advertising themes will be pay equity for women, an issue that has particular resonance as the campaigns battle for female voters, and a more pointed linking of Mr. McCain to President Bush and Republicans in Washington.
 But Mr. Obama's aides said they were confident with the course of the campaign. They said that, other than making some shifts around the edges, particularly in response to Mr. McCain's effort to seize the change issue from Mr. Obama, they were not planning any major deviation from a strategy that called for a steady escalation of attacks on Mr. McCain as the race heads toward the debates. 
 That response is characteristic for a campaign that has presented itself as disciplined and unflappable and is reminiscent of the way Mr. Obama's campaign reacted a year ago when it came under fire from allies who said it was not being tough enough in going after Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
 ''We're sensitive to the fluid dynamics of the campaign, but we have a game plan and a strategy,'' said Mr. Obama's campaign manager, David Plouffe. ''We're familiar with this. And I'm sure between now and Nov. 4 there will be another period of hand-wringing and bed-wetting. It comes with the territory.''
 Still, Democrats outside the campaign suggested Mr. Obama should be urgently working to regain control of the message.
 ''The Obama message has been disrupted in the last week,'' said Representative Artur Davis, Democrat of Alabama. ''It's a time for Democrats to focus on what the fundamentals are in this election.''
 Phil Singer, who was a press secretary for Mrs. Clinton in her primary campaign against Mr. Obama, said, ''The Obama people need to reboot and figure out ways to make the McCain-Bush argument newsworthy again.'' 
 The uneasiness among Democrats is the result of a confluence of factors in the week since Mr. McCain accepted his party's nomination in St. Paul. The selection of Ms. Palin became the defining event of Mr. McCain's convention, revving up the conservative base and drawing the spotlight away from Mr. Obama.
 Mr. McCain's increasingly aggressive campaign has sought to put Mr. Obama on the defensive in each news cycle, using any development at hand, like Mr. Obama's colloquial comment this week about putting ''lipstick on a pig,'' to keep attention away from Democratic messages about the economy and the similarities between Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush.
 And a series of quick polls taken after the Republican convention have suggested that Mr. Obama has lost support among white women and independent voters. Polls taken so close to major political events are notoriously unreliable, but Democrats remember what happened in 2004, when Republicans used the period right after Senator John Kerry's nomination to undercut him with a series of attacks.
 By every indication, Mr. Obama's aides underestimated the impact that Mr. McCain's choice of Ms. Palin would have on the race. Mr. Obama and his campaign have seemed flummoxed in trying to figure out how to deal with her. His aides said they were looking to the news media to debunk the image of her as a blue-collar reformer, even as they argued that her power to help Mr. McCain was overstated. 
 ''Everyone was astonished that she drew 9,000 people to Lancaster the other night,'' said Mr. Obama's senior strategist, David Axelrod. ''But we drew 10,000 people there last week.''
 ''They got a transient boost from the sort of imagery surrounding her selection,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''But I think things will settle in. She will be a candidate and not just a symbol.''
 Beyond that, Mr. Obama's aides said they had been taken aback by the newfound aggressiveness of the McCain campaign under Steve Schmidt, who has played an increasingly powerful role since last summer. Even as the aides have denounced the tactics as unsavory, they acknowledge that Mr. McCain is running a more effective campaign than he was a month ago.
 ''They had big problems in their campaign, and they made adjustments,'' Mr. Axelrod said.
 To a large extent, the perception that Mr. Obama is struggling is based on national polls taken in the days after the convention. But Mr. Obama's campaign views such measures as irrelevant and focuses on what is going on in the 18 or so swing states. 
 Mr. Plouffe argued that the attention being paid by national news media outlets to events like Mr. Obama's lipstick comment was not mirrored in local news coverage. What is more, the Obama campaign has filled the airwaves in some states with advertisements that link Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush.
 And for all the concern voiced by Democrats to Mr. Obama's aides that the candidate has not hit Mr. McCain hard enough, he has increasingly assailed Mr. McCain in recent days, mocking his attempt to present himself as an agent of change and denouncing his campaign style as a break from the promise he had made to practice a new kind of politics. Yet, at least on television, Mr. Obama's critique did not break through the lipstick debate.
 Inside the campaign headquarters in Chicago, aides said, there have been no emergency conference calls or special strategy sessions to deal with the new dynamic in the race. 
 Still, interviews with advisers and supporters suggested a concern not seen in the Obama campaign since its most competitive days in the long primary fight with Mrs. Clinton. 
 ''You can't be so stubborn that you don't react or adjust to events,'' Mr. Plouffe said. ''We have been given up for dead any number of times in this process, so it does stiffen your spine a little bit.''
 One adjustment for the Obama campaign comes as Mr. McCain is seeking to claim the Democrats' theme of change by pointing to Ms. Palin. For months, advisers to Mr. Obama had assumed that Mr. McCain would play up his experience; Mr. Plouffe said he welcomed what he argued would be a campaign fought out on the issue of change.
 ''This is a very major development,'' Mr. Plouffe said. ''John McCain jettisoned his message and his strategy. It is now about change. We're going to lean into that very, very hard.''
 In the midst of all this, Mr. Obama had a private lunch on Thursday with someone he battled with for much of the year but who knows how to put the Republicans on the defensive: former President Bill Clinton. Discussion topics, aides said, included how Mr. Obama might handle Ms. Palin in the days ahead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); EQUAL PAY (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); SARAH PALIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008



299 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: For Lehman Employees, the Collapse Is Personal

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT and ERIC DASH; Michael J. de la Merced and Ben White contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In the last few days, employees of Lehman Brothers have wrung their hands as the value of their stock evaporated before their eyes. Now, many fear losing their jobs, too. 
 In scenes eerily reminiscent of the final days of Bear Stearns, the megawatt energy within Lehman Brothers has dimmed to a hum as employees focus on the fate of the firm and what it might mean to them. To make matters worse, pink slips for previously announced layoffs were being handed out this week. 
 ''Everyone is walking around like they have just been Tasered,'' said one Lehman employee, who, like many interviewed for this article, declined to be named because he was not authorized to talk publicly. ''Everyone was always hoping we would pull through. Now, that is not really an option.'' 
 On Lehman's third- and fourth-floor trading floors overlooking Broadway's lights in Midtown Manhattan, traders continued working at their terminals, or at least were giving the appearance of doing so. At the same time, many polished their resumes and contacted recruiters. 
 If Lehman is sold -- as now appears likely -- the buyer will fire many of them. And they know that tens of thousands of other Wall Streeters laid off in the tsunami sweeping the financial industry -- including many recently let go from Bear Stearns -- are already chasing after too few jobs. 
 Wall Street is used to ups and downs, but this latest round of cuts brought about by the credit crisis is turning out to be one of the worst in recent memory -- a fate compounded by a shrinking economy. As of June, many of the more than 83,000 employees dismissed from banks and brokerage firms worldwide have come from firms based in the New York area. 
 Everyone at Lehman knows what happened at Bear Stearns: Star employees did not have a hard time finding work when Bear was sold in a fire sale this year, but JPMorgan initially kept only about 6,500 of 13,500 employees. Many are still looking for work. 
 As at Bear, many at Lehman have taken a hit from a plummeting stock price. From an all-time high of $86.18 a share in early 2007, the stock has plunged, closing at $4.22 Thursday. 
 In an arrangement that is typical of Wall Street, Lehman employees have gotten much of their pay in stock and stock options in recent years. That figure could range from 10 percent to 60 percent in Lehman stock, according to a person close to the company. 
 ''Over the past decade an increasing amount of the compensation had been given in stock and stock options,'' said Robert Willens, a tax expert who worked at Lehman from 1987 to this year. ''Employees were paid in restricted stock that took several years to vest. Stock was granted at the current price.'' 
 As recently as last week, Lehman's stock was selling for $16 a share, and many Lehman employees were still betting that their chairman and chief executive, Richard S. Fuld Jr., would figure out a way to salvage the bank, and their future -- a hope he reinforced Wednesday with assurances to Wall Street that the firm could remain standing alone.
 On Thursday, those hopes ran dry as the share price plunged so low and so fast that potential suitors came out of the woodwork to see if they could snap up the 158-year-old institution for a bargain-basement price. 
 As employees left the firm's Seventh Avenue headquarters Thursday, a Lehman trader said people were trying to keep a stoic face. ''They are not showing anything,'' he said. 
 As widely respected and liked as Mr. Fuld has been at the firm, now that the cold prospect of losing a life savings in Lehman stock has become more of a reality, many employees have grown resentful. 
 ''We feel like we have been controlled by events and haven't controlled them,'' said one rank-and-file employee. ''And it has just been the most punitive market. Is there frustration with the management team? Of course.'' Another employee who left Lehman earlier this year lamented that he had put enough faith in the firm to retain shares -- a decision he is paying for. ''My children's education fund is wiped out,'' said this person. 
 ''I'm not a millionaire like a lot of these guys. Of course this is on Dick's hands,'' he said, referring to Mr. Fuld. ''It all happened on his watch.'' 
 The investment bank said that Mr. Fuld was not available for comment.
 A number of Lehman employees said the widespread support at the firm for Mr. Fuld was not as strong as it had been, largely because his strategy to save Lehman, including the partial sale of Neuberger Berman, its money management unit, would not be enough. These people said they had expected and hoped that Mr. Fuld would step aside Wednesday and let Herbert H. McDade III, the firm's president, ascend and start anew.
 Mr. Fuld himself has seen much of his wealth disappear. At the stock's peak, his 11.4 million shares of various types of stock and 2.5 million stock options were worth about $956 million, according to James F. Reda Associates, a consulting firm. Now, they are worth only about $40 million. But employees know that Mr. Fuld has reaped rich rewards in his decade and a half at the helm. 
 Even if he loses his grip at Lehman, he stands to collect more. He does not have a severance agreement if he loses his job, but if he were terminated without cause, Mr. Fuld could expect to collect a $16 million pension and $5.6 million in deferred compensation. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Staff gathered in a meeting room at the Lehman Brothers office in Canary Wharf in London on Thursday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN COOMBS/REUTERS)
 The Lehman Brothers office in Midtown Manhattan. ''Everyone was always hoping we would pull through. Now, that is not really an option,'' said one employee.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISMISSALS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (91%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (54%); JPM (LSE) (54%); 8634 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (59%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008



300 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Take Break, of Sorts, to Mark 7th Anniversary of the 9/11 Attacks

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY; Larry Rohter contributed reporting.

 BODY:
After days of sharp attacks against each other, Senators John McCain and Barack Obama suspended all political combat on Thursday, including television commercials, and instead made joint visits to ground zero and a forum on public service in New York to mark the seventh anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
 At one point, Mr. McCain, who spoke first at the nighttime forum at Columbia University, defended his running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, for recently making fun of Mr. Obama's work years ago as a community organizer. He said that Ms. Palin made her comment in reaction to Democratic attacks on her relative inexperience as a first-term governor and a former mayor of a small Alaskan town, Wasilla. 
 ''Of course I respect community organizers, of course I respect people who serve their community, and Senator Obama's record there is outstanding,'' said Mr. McCain, the Republican presidential nominee, before adding, ''I think a small-town mayor has very great responsibilities.''
 Mr. Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, said in his appearance that while he deeply respected mayors, ''I was surprised by several remarks around community organizing, and belittling it.''
 ''It taught me,'' he said, ''that ordinary people can do extraordinary things, when they're given a chance and brought together. I want every young person to recognize that they will not fulfill their potential until they hitch their wagon to something bigger.''
 Both candidates did agree on a politically divisive issue: They urged universities like Columbia to reverse Vietnam-era bans on Reserved Officers Training Corps activities. Some schools continue the bans in reaction to the military's policy on gays and lesbians -- a policy that Mr. Obama has pledged to lift and that Mr. McCain has said he would continue.
 ''Shouldn't the students here be exposed to the attractiveness of serving in the military, particularly as officers?'' said Mr. McCain, of Arizona, who attended the United States Naval Academy. ''I would hope that these universities would re-examine that policy.'' 
 Asked if Columbia, his alma mater, should reinstate ROTC, Mr. Obama said: ''I think we've made a mistake on that. I recognize that there are students here who have differences in terms of military policy, but the notion that young people here at Columbia aren't offered a choice or an option in participating in military service is a mistake.''
 Outside of the forum, on the steps of Low Memorial Library, students cheered loudly when Mr. McCain talked about Columbia's unwillingness to let ROTC on campus and then booed when he mentioned the option of serving as a military officer. When Mr. Obama proposed allowing ROTC back on campus, meanwhile, the students remained largely silent.
 While Mr. Obama made no campaign appearances on Thursday, he did not entirely halt campaign-related activities: He shared a 90-minute lunch in Harlem with former President Bill Clinton, intended, in part, to soothe any ill will left from the bitter Democratic primary campaign between Mr. Obama and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York.
 Advisers to the two men said afterward that the meeting was cordial and that Mr. Clinton urged Mr. Obama, of Illinois, to keep his political message focused on economic issues.
 The meeting took place in Mr. Clinton's 14th-floor office on 125th Street, and they took a few questions from reporters. Mr. Clinton said he had agreed to do ''a substantial number of things'' on behalf of Mr. Obama this fall, and would hit the campaign trail as soon as his Global Initiative conference concluded on Sept. 26.
 ''We're putting him to work,'' Mr. Obama joked. 
 Asked for his opinion about the state of the presidential race, Mr. Clinton replied, ''I predict that Senator Obama will win and win handily.''
 ''There you go,'' Mr. Obama said. ''You can take it from the president of the United States. He knows a little something about politics.''
 Yet the main event of the day was a moment when no words were exchanged: It was the image, rather, of Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain walking shoulder-to-shoulder down a long ramp at ground zero. 
 The two appeared somber throughout their 15 minutes together, chatting briefly on the ramp. At the bottom, they greeted a small receiving line of uniformed officers and relatives of victims. Each man also took a rose and placed the flower on a reflecting pool. They stood silent for a few moments, each clasping his own fingers.
 At the end of their 15-minute public detente, Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama shook hands, and Mr. McCain could be heard saying, ''All right, sir, see you soon.''
 The idea for the rivals to appear together at ground zero originated last week during a telephone conversation between the men. When Mr. Obama called Mr. McCain to congratulate him on accepting the presidential nomination, aides to both men said, Mr. Obama proposed the idea and Mr. McCain accepted. 
 The breather from minute-by-minute politicking comes after several days of intensifying tension and attacks between the McCain and Obama camps, in large part over Ms. Palin's leadership style and record. She is under scrutiny for her inconsistent positions on Congressional earmarks and her motives in dismissing the Alaska public safety commissioner, among other things.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators John McCain and Barack Obama with Cindy McCain and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg at the World Trade Center site on Thursday in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); MAYORS (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); NAVIES (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); LIBRARIANS (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); CINDY MCCAIN (79%); SARAH PALIN (73%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008



301 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 866 words

PERSON: Lucian W. Pye 

HEADLINE: Lucian W. Pye, 86, Bold Thinker on Asia

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Lucian W. Pye, an influential political scientist who marshaled a piercing intellect, psychoanalytic insights and plain intuition to take startling new perspectives on area studies, particularly concerning China and other Asian nations, died on Sept. 5 in Boston. He was 86.
 The immediate cause was pneumonia, said his daughter Virginia Pye, who added that his health had deteriorated after a fall in July. 
 As a Sinologist, Professor Pye advised the State Department and the National Security Council and was considered a peer of the great China experts of his generation like John K. Fairbank of Harvard. Professor Pye was a leader of the National Committee on United States-China Relations when it laid the groundwork for the American table tennis team to visit China in 1971, and he later served as acting chairman.
 He advised Democratic presidential candidates, including Senators John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Henry M. Jackson of Washington, urging a muscular foreign policy. 
 But Professor Pye was first and foremost an intellectual who wrote or edited 25 books and led his profession as president of the American Political Science Association in 1988-9. He was among the pioneers in the 1950s and '60s in developing theories about how poor nations develop politically. In contrast to political scientists who seek universal, overarching explanations, he delved into the vagaries of cultures, countries and people in search of more individualized interpretations.
 ''He redirected political science away from rational models of political behavior and toward things that are harder to measure and understand,'' said Richard Samuels, a political scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where Professor Pye taught for 35 years.
 ''It was the beginning of what would be a very important moment in postwar social science,'' Mr. Samuels continued.
 So novel were Professor Pye's intellectual forays that opposite reactions to them were not unusual. This was particularly true of ''Asian Power and Politics: The Cultural Dimensions of Authority,'' which he wrote with his wife, Mary, and published in 1985. The book found commonalities -- or, critics railed, flagrant stereotypes -- in Asia's disparate political cultures.
 Howard Wriggins, writing in Political Science Quarterly, asked, ''Who but Lucian Pye would be bold enough'' to undertake such a mission?
 Lucian W. Pye was born in Fenzhou, in Shanxi Province in northwest China, on Oct. 21, 1921, to Congregational missionaries. He became bilingual, although he lost much of his Chinese when he moved to Oberlin, Ohio, for his primary education, only to relearn it later. He graduated from Carleton College in 1943, then was a Marine intelligence officer in Asia.
 He earned his Ph.D. from Yale in 1951, writing his dissertation on the attitudes underlying the warlord system of politics in China in the 1920s. His mentor, Gabriel A. Almond, who introduced him to the study of comparative politics, once recalled Mr. Pye as ''generally leaving me a little breathless; he had so much energy and enthusiasm.''
 In 1956, Professor Pye joined the M.I.T. Center for International Studies to teach in a new program that would soon develop into a full-fledged political science department.
 Along with other social scientists trying to find better explanations for change than those offered by Marxism, he helped found the Committee on Comparative Politics of the Social Science Research Council. He used his research in Malaysia to suggest that communism's appeal there came from insecurity over the pace of change.
 His next project was Burma, now Myanmar, where he concluded that psychology was more important than economics in explaining development. In 1976, he extended this psychological approach to Mao Zedong, imagined in his crib, in a biography that argued that Mao became a rebel to recapture a sense of ''infantile omnipotence.''
 In a 1988 article about Professor Pye's work in the journal Political Science and Politics, Donald L. M. Blackmer suggested such leaps of imagination were typical of him, writing, ''Interpretation and generalization abound, often unsupported by the sorts of evidence most of us have been taught to look for.''
 The upside, Dr. Blackmer said, was that Professor Pye could ''explain the otherwise inexplicable.''
 Professor Pye took many leadership roles, from work setting up a scholarly center in Hong Kong to posts on the Council on Foreign Relations, the Asia Society and the Asian Foundation. Early in his career, he worked with other political scientists to free their field of academic constraints they perceived in the McCarthy period.
 Professor Pye is survived by his wife of 63 years, the former Mary Waddill; his daughters Lyndy Pye of Northampton, Mass., and Virginia Pye of Richmond, Va.; his son, Chris, of Northampton; and three grandchildren.
 Professor Pye was an early proponent of the Vietnam War. As it ended in 1975 with an American retreat, he was asked by The New York Times about plans to airlift children from South Vietnam. He spoke of both hawks and doves feeling profound guilt.
 ''Who is the orphan?'' Professor Pye asked. ''The children, or Vietnam?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lucian W. Pye, in 2002. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRAHAM RAMSAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL SCIENCE (93%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (69%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (67%); MULTILINGUALISM (66%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (54%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COMMITTEE ON UNITED STATES-CHINA RELATIONS (57%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); AMERICAN POLITICAL SCIENCE ASSOCIATION (55%)

JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SHANXI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (97%); ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008



302 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1789 words

HEADLINE: A West Bank Ruin, Reborn as a Peace Beacon

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

DATELINE: JENIN, West Bank 

 BODY:
Pessimism is a steady companion these days for advocates of Middle East peace. A lame-duck Israeli government is negotiating with a weak Palestinian leadership in the twilight of an unpopular American administration. Few forecast success.
 But a quiet revolution is stirring here in this city, once a byword for the extremes of violence between Israelis and Palestinians. In 2002, in response to a wave of suicide bombers from Jenin, Israeli tanks leveled entire neighborhoods. 
 From that rubble, now newly trained and equipped Palestinian security officials have restored order. Israeli soldiers have pulled back from bases and are in close touch with their Palestinian colleagues. Civilians are planning economic cooperation -- an industrial zone to provide thousands of jobs, mostly to Palestinians, and another involving organic produce grown by Palestinians and marketed in Europe by Israelis. Ministers from both governments have been visiting regularly, often joined by top international officials. Israeli Arabs are playing a key role. 
 The aim is to stand conventional wisdom on its head. Instead of a shaky negotiated peace treaty imposing coexistence from the top down, a bottom-up set of relationships that lock the two societies together should, proponents argue, lead to a real two-state solution. 
 ''We got a clear American message that the Palestinian state will start from Jenin,'' asserted Col. Radi Asideh, the deputy commander of the Palestinian security forces here who have recently received new Land Rovers and AK-47 assault rifles. ''The plan is to have a security model that can then be implemented all over Palestine.''
 Those may sound like the hopeful words of a credulous officer. But here is Gen. James L. Jones, special American envoy to the region in an interview this week after visiting Jenin: ''I see this as a kind of dress rehearsal for statehood, a crucible where the two sides can prove things to each other.''
 And Ehud Barak, Israel's defense minister, in an interview in his Tel Aviv office, said: ''So far, Jenin is a great success. The Palestinian police have created a different mood there. We need to see money being poured into projects now to keep the momentum going. If done right, we think this could become an example.''
 As one Western official involved in the plan noted, Israeli defense officials do not make a habit of speaking well of Palestinian police, so Mr. Barak's words are telling. Still, Mr. Barak's last point is also crucial because, unsurprisingly, not everyone agrees on what it means to do it right. Each side in the triangle -- Israelis, Palestinians, international donors and facilitators -- argues that it has done its part but that things are moving too slowly because of the others. Israel says Palestinian forces still do not deal with terrorists and so its forces must continue night incursions. Palestinians worry that the focus on Jenin will take away from the broader issues that need to be solved, like Jerusalem and refugees. The likelihood of failure still far outweighs that of success. 
 The choice of Jenin as a model might seem strange given the level of violence that emanated from here in the years of the second Palestinian intifada, or uprising. Since then, the city and region of Jenin have been severely economically depressed and chaotic. 
 Until late last year, for example, armed militia men used the hospital as a dormitory. Gunfire in the streets was common. One day, Colonel Asideh recounted, when militia paychecks failed to arrive, gunmen pumped bullets into four of the local ATMs, causing hundreds of thousands of dollars of damage. 
 Today, such men have given up their arms and the police walk the beat in this town. The hospital has been refurbished with American aid. Shops downtown stay open late. People feel they can breathe. 
 Jenin, officials on all sides say, offers many advantages for a pilot project, an idea arrived at by American and European officials in February when they sought ways to build peace on the ground. 
 First, they said, Hamas, the main Palestinian militant opposition in the West Bank, is relatively weak in Jenin. Second, after the evacuation of four Israeli settlements in the region in 2005, the area is essentially free of settlers, a major source of friction elsewhere. Third, the barrier that Israel has been building causes little friction in this area because it is right on the boundary between Israel and the West Bank, not over it so there is little territorial dispute.
 There is also a fourth reason. Gilboa, the Israeli region that abuts Jenin, is an unusual and unusually well-suited neighbor. Small and rural with 30,000 people, it is 40 percent Arab and 60 percent Jewish and the inhabitants have worked assiduously to create their own kind of model -- of Arab-Jewish coexistence in Israel. 
 An example was on display last month when high school students in Gilboa took part in what may be the only one of its kind in the world -- the finals for the Bible-Koran contest. Twelve teams, each made up of one Jew and one Arab, were asked questions in both Hebrew and Arabic about the holy books. A mixed team of Jewish and Muslim teachers acted as judges. An Israeli Arab was the master of ceremonies. 
 Isaac Herzog, Israel's minister of social welfare, was on hand and told the audience that Gilboa was a model for Israel, that every Israeli Jew should learn the Koran, that equality of opportunity should be the norm. 
 The head of the Gilboa regional council, Daniel Atar, is a Jew and his deputy, Eid Salem, is an Arab. Together they have built a warm relationship with the Palestinian governor of the Jenin area, Qadoura Moussa. The three meet frequently to formulate plans for economic cooperation in agriculture and commerce. Together, they have visited the French-German border area and Switzerland, seeking models of coexistence.
 ''There are two kinds of peace,'' Mr. Atar said one recent afternoon in his office with Mr. Salem at his side. ''There is the one on a piece of paper that doesn't stand up to any test and there is the one built from the bottom up. That is the one we are hoping to build. It is increasingly clear that if Israeli Jews cannot figure out how to have good relations with Israeli Arabs, there won't be peace beyond the borders, either. We have a choice in Israel of making peace or living in a bunker.''
 One result of the discussions among the three leaders is a decision by the Israeli authorities to allow some Israeli Arabs into Jenin on a daily basis for the first time since the intifada. It has been a delicate move made with little fanfare because in principle it is illegal to allow certain Israeli citizens to do something others may not and also because movement across the boundary invites the possibility of security breaches. 
 It is delicate for another reason. In recent years, Israeli Jews have grown worried that among the 1.3 million Arabs who are Israeli citizens, there is a growing radicalization and identification with the Palestinian national cause and militant Islam. Increasing their contact with the West Bank could add to those concerns.
 But Israeli Arabs have relatives here and want to do business here, and the Israeli authorities say they want to encourage that as a means of helping the Palestinian economy. If Israeli Arabs are permitted to do that in large numbers, that could represent an important change in their status in the eyes of Israeli Jews -- from potential fifth column to bridge builder.
 There are small signs of it already. Inside the Jenin refugee camp, a tough neighborhood of 16,000 inhabitants that is inside the city of Jenin, Fadi Abu Hijab, 27, owns a new sewing workshop with half a dozen employees. They make clothes on order from shops in Tel Aviv, he said, and Israeli Arabs are the brokers who come to deliver the material and pick up the finished products. 
 In addition, the university here has 80 Israeli Arab students and is working to attract several hundred more. The Israeli authorities have taken other steps -- removing key checkpoints so that movement around Jenin is easier, granting V.I.P. checkpoint passes to about 1,500 Palestinian officials and businessmen, issuing work visas to some here, and agreeing on the building of new police stations, courthouses, schools and jails. 
 For anyone who remembers the Gilboa-Jenin boundary area a decade ago, however, all of the incipient changes seem minor. Until the 2000 uprising, thousands of Israelis -- Jews and Arabs -- shopped here regularly in their cars. Thousands of Palestinians from here worked in Israel. The industrial zone now being planned by Tony Blair -- the international community's envoy to build Palestinian institutions -- and talked about as a major breakthrough, was supposed to be built then.
 Today the main crossing point, then the site of a sprawling market, is a maze of security towers and checkpoints. Israeli soldiers refrain from cruising Jenin by day but still carry out occasional night raids and maintain overall security control of the region. And while Israeli Arabs are now being let in, they may not yet bring cars, greatly limiting the appeal of the trip and the shopping.
 There are other concerns. The Palestinians have asked to base their newly trained battalion for Jenin in an abandoned Israeli settlement, a good spot in terms of location and infrastructure. But Israeli officials are worried about how it will play in Israel and have so far said no. 
 Israeli security officials say their Palestinian colleagues are good at law and order but not at stopping terrorist groups. They say that Islamic Jihad used to be strong here and is no longer because Israel spent years destroying its infrastructure and killing its militants, setting the stage for the Palestinian security takeover. But if they relax their vigilance, the Israelis say, the situation will deteriorate. Early on Wednesday morning, for example, Israeli soldiers and security men raided a home in Jenin and detonated a 30-pound pipe bomb.
 The Palestinians complain that they are often urged to arrest someone just because he wears a beard. They add that as long as they are seen as puppets of the Israelis, the project is doomed. The key is for Palestinian security officials to be seen as agents of state building. Then the population will cooperate. This requires the kind of discretion that the Israeli Army has not been known for.
 ''The intifada turned them into enemies in one day,'' Mr. Blair said in an interview. ''Now we are trying to recreate a sense of mutual confidence after seven years. It is a very slow process. But what is happening in Gilboa and Jenin is exactly the direction we would like to go.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: RELIGIOUS DETENTE: A Jewish-Arab performance during a Bible-Koran quiz held last month in the Gilboa region of Israel.
MEETING OF MINDS: Qadoura Moussa, left, governor of the Jenin area, with Daniel Atar, right, and Eid Salem, Gilboa officials.
 ON THE MEND: Workers, left, prepared to plaster a wall covered with political graffiti. It will serve as a canvas for a local artist.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RINA CASTELNUOVO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A10) MAP: Jenin was once a byword for Israeli-Palestinian violence. Map details area of Jenin. (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); TERRORISM (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ISLAMIC HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); FIREARMS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%)

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (78%); JAMES L JONES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008



303 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: New Soups Help Profit Beat Forecast At Campbell

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The Campbell Soup Company posted a better-than-expected quarterly profit on Thursday as price increases and newer products such as lower sodium soups helped offset higher commodity costs. 
 The company said sales growth in the current fiscal year should exceed its long-term expectations, with earnings up 5 percent to 7 percent, excluding one-time items.
 Campbell said it earned $89 million, or 24 cents a share, in the period, compared with $61 million, or 16 cents a share, a year earlier.
 Sales in the period, which ended Aug. 3 and was the fourth quarter of the company's fiscal year, rose to $1.72 billion from $1.52 billion. The most recent quarter had one more week than the earlier period. 
 Soup sales in the United States rose 6 percent in the quarter, excluding the effect of an extra week in the fiscal year. That follows 3 percent decline in the previous quarter.
 Campbell introduced several new products in the last year to tap into consumers' desire for healthier food. The chief executive, Douglas Conant, told analysts in a conference call it was hard to know what part of the increase resulted from demand for lower-priced meal options, like soup, because of the weak economy, and what resulted from new products and other Campbell efforts.
 Stock in Campbell, which is based in Camden, N.J., rose $1.42, or 3.8 percent, to $39.00 a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: CAMPBELL SOUP CO (95%)

TICKER: CPB (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (95%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (95%)

PERSON: DOUGLAS R CONANT (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008



304 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Stung by Criticism Over Georgia, Putin Asks West for a Little Understanding

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY; An employee of The New York Times contributed reporting from Sochi, Russia.

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
For three and a half hours on Thursday, in tones that were alternately pugilistic and needy, Vladimir V. Putin tried to explain himself. 
 More than a month has passed since Russia sent columns of armor into Georgia, asserting its sphere of influence with a confidence not seen since the days of the Soviet Union. But since the first hours of this crisis, Russian leaders have been asking the same question with mounting frustration: Why is everyone blaming us for this? 
 Mr. Putin, Russia's prime minister, made his case on Thursday in Sochi, Russia, before the Valdai Discussion Club, a collection of Russia experts from around the world. Comments aimed at the West were, at times, rueful -- he said he liked President Bush more than many Americans do -- and even respectful, as when he asked for a moment of silence in honor of the victims of Sept. 11. 
 As for the criticism that has cascaded down on his government, Mr. Putin expressed only bafflement that those in the West did not accept Russia's explanation that it had simply acted in defense of its citizens. How did they expect Russia to respond to the shelling of its peacekeepers in Tskhinvali, the South Ossetian capital, he asked -- with ''slingshots?'' Did they expect him to ''brandish a penknife?''
 ''What else could we do?'' the Interfax news agency reported him as saying. ''Do you think we should have wiped the bloody snot away and hung our heads?'' 
 His plea was serious. This week, Russia's diplomatic relations with Europe frayed badly during negotiations about a withdrawal of troops from Georgia. President Dmitri A. Medvedev's decision to recognize the enclaves of South Ossetia and Abkhazia has made even longtime allies like China and Serbia wary of standing with Russia.
 But while Russia has been unbending across the negotiating table, what its leaders seem to want more than anything is to be understood. 
 Mr. Putin issued a great number of reassurances on Thursday: He said Russia had ''no ideological conflict'' with the West and ''no imperial ambitions'' in Eastern Europe; he said he supported eliminating stockpiles of nuclear weapons; he said he expected Georgians to oust their president, Mikheil Saakashvili, without any help from Russia. Russia, he said, is ''not against anybody.'' 
 Well, almost nobody. Mr. Putin spoke of the Western news media with unbridled contempt.
 ''I am surprised at how powerful the propaganda machine of the so-called West is,'' he said. ''This is awesome! Amazing!''
 Early in the crisis, monitoring Western news sources from Beijing at the start of the Olympics, he said, he saw ''absolute silence, as if nothing was happening. As if this was commanded. I congratulate you. I congratulate those who were involved in this.'' 
 In his remarks to the group, which included prominent political scientists and journalists, Mr. Putin offered a detailed account of Russia's thrust into Georgia, which he characterized as restrained.
 For the first time, Mr. Putin suggested that the military action was aimed in part at quelling instability in the Russian north Caucasus, where he said ''certain nongovernmental organizations in certain republics'' had ''raised the question of separation from Russia under the pretext of nonprotection of South Ossetia.'' 
 ''We would have had a new problem if we had not done that,'' Interfax reported him as saying.
 Mr. Putin is clearly still stung by language used by the European Union, which condemned the Russian invasion as ''a disproportionate response'' to Georgia's attack on Tskhinvali. He said Russians had no choice but to proceed beyond the conflict zone to eliminate Georgian posts and ammunition depots -- a move he compared to that of the Soviet Army in World War II, which pursued Nazi forces across Soviet borders and into Western Europe. 
 ''By the way, it was not only Soviet forces that entered Berlin,'' he said. ''There were Americans, the French, the British there. Why did you go there? You could have done some shooting along the borders and called it a day.''
 In this conversation -- unlike a recent interview on CNN -- Mr. Putin gave measured answers, expressing as much regret as defiance. At times, he seemed to be enjoying himself, as when he was asked about the power dynamic between himself and Mr. Medvedev, his protege.
 Traditionally, the Russian president controls foreign and security policy, and the prime minister acts chiefly as a manager of the economy. Yet it was Mr. Putin who rushed to the Caucasus battlefield, flying back from China to meet with Russian generals and visit the Russian wounded. 
 It was ''a shame,'' Mr. Putin said, that the crisis had fallen to Mr. Medvedev, whom he described as ''an intelligent, contemporary man of liberal views.'' He said the decision to invade was Mr. Medvedev's; not a single tank, Mr. Putin said, would have moved without direct orders from Mr. Medvedev. 
 ''I never impose my advice on him,'' Mr. Putin said.
 ''As for your humble servant,'' he added, ''earlier, the problems of economic development consumed 80 percent of my time. Now I spend much more on it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Russian soldiers in Poti, Georgia, prepared in the rain on Thursday to leave. Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin says Russia was acting only in self-defense after its peacekeepers were shelled.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSTAFA OZER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PEACEKEEPING (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (63%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (92%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (75%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); GEORGIA (95%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008



305 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Issue, Not Quite Hot, Remains Strong

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

DATELINE: ROSWELL, Ga. 

 BODY:
When Representative Tom Price spoke to the Roswell Kiwanians the other day, the first three questions concerned health care. When he appeared four days later before the Sandy Springs Rotarians, no one asked about it at all.
 As energy and the economy consume more of the country's political discourse, health care is an issue that can seem to vacillate in importance by the day, the place and the audience.
 It remains a significant presence in virtually every Congressional district, including this well-heeled Atlanta suburb represented by Mr. Price, a second-term Republican. In some contests, particularly those where Democrats smell blood, it has been placed front and center. But in others it has become less distinct, absorbed by the electorate's broader anxiety over the economy and displaced by the urgency of high-cost gasoline and the housing crisis. 
 ''Energy has kind of taken the wind out of -- no pun intended -- all sorts of other things,'' Mr. Price said, campaigning in his district, which was once represented by Newt Gingrich. ''But health care is still in the top three issues, and it is for every single demographic group.'' 
 With Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton on the sidelines, health care is also receiving somewhat less emphasis in the presidential race, although each campaign is busy stoking fears about the other's proposals. 
 Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic nominee, is arguing that Senator John McCain's plan to end the tax bias against those who buy insurance individually, and to replace it with health care tax credits for all, would increase costs for many consumers and leave others underinsured.
 Mr. McCain, the Republican nominee, is charging that Mr. Obama's proposal, which would allow the privately insured to maintain their coverage while creating a heavily subsidized government plan for the uninsured, would ''force families into a government-run health care system.''
 Advocacy groups, meanwhile, are spending tens of millions of dollars on advertising to keep the issue at the forefront of the 2009 Congressional agenda. And working groups, both inside and outside Congress, are meeting to search for points of bipartisan agreement that might produce at least incremental change. 
 Polls show not that concern about health care has faded significantly, only that the foreboding about energy and the economy has blitzed past it. Some analysts of health care politics argue that because Democrats are more associated with the issue, any de-emphasis may help Republicans. They warn, however, that candidates ignore health care at their own peril.
 ''It's generally more helpful to Democrats than to Republicans, so when health care is subsumed into the economy it may not have as much of an edge,'' said Ron Pollack, executive director of Families USA, one of the advocacy groups behind the new ''Harry and Louise'' television commercials about the plight of the uninsured. ''But in terms of what people want to hear candidates talk about, they certainly want to hear something about health care.''
 That message is not lost on Mr. Price, one of 13 medical doctors in Congress. An orthopedic surgeon, the son and grandson of physicians, he speaks regularly about health care on the stump, saying it is ''broken beyond repair by nibbling at the sides.'' He has polled voters on the issue and mailed out fliers explaining his positions.
 As a Republican and a physician, Mr. Price says, it distresses him that his party has allowed health care to be defined as a Democratic issue. (In an August poll by the Kaiser Family Foundation, 58 percent of those questioned said Mr. Obama was the presidential candidate more likely to make health care a priority, compared with 20 percent for Mr. McCain.)
 ''People believe Republicans don't have a health care gene because many Republicans don't talk about it with any frequency,'' said Mr. Price, who is heavily favored to defeat his Democratic opponent, Bill Jones. ''I think, however, that it is a Republican issue, because the solution embraces our conservative principles, the imperative of individuals and their families being able to make decisions. Nobody truly believes the government can solve this, save Democrat politicians.''
 To prompt debate, Mr. Price has introduced legislation to allow individuals to buy insurance with pretax dollars, as is currently the case for those who purchase employer-sponsored plans. (Mr. McCain would achieve the same equity in the opposite way, by ending the exclusion from income taxes for employer plans.) 
 To promote universal coverage, the Price plan would also provide tax deductions and credits to all who cannot afford insurance, a proposition whose price tag to the government is unknown but certain to be expensive. And he would allow individuals to select from an array of plans rather than permitting employers to limit their choices.
 The McCain plan, Mr. Price said, ''is a step in the right direction.'' But he said Mr. McCain's proposed tax credits of $2,500 an individual and $5,000 a family would not be enough to make insurance affordable for everyone who needs help.
 If Mr. Price seems proactive on health care, it is at least partly because he, like other Republicans, starts from a defensive stance. His opponent, Mr. Jones, plans to make a major issue of Mr. Price's votes last year against a Democratic proposal to expand vastly the eligibility for the Children's Health Insurance Program. President Bush twice vetoed the expansion, and Mr. Price and other Republicans helped him sustain the vetoes. 
 The congressman has worked to explain those votes. ''People in my district,'' he said, ''understand that the last thing we need to be doing is moving folks from private health insurance to public health insurance, which is exactly what that bill did.''
 But Mr. Jones, a former commercial pilot and Air Force veteran, said his indignation over those votes had driven him to challenge Mr. Price. ''He wraps himself in his white coat while arguing why we can't expand our health care system,'' Mr. Jones said.
 When provided openings, other Democrats have attacked what they see as a Republican soft spot. In the open race in Illinois's 11th District, for instance, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has distributed two mailings calling attention to the claim by the Republican candidate, Marty Ozinga, that health care is available to all Americans. ''I don't care who you are, if you're sick or you get hurt, you go to the hospital and you get taken care of,'' Mr. Ozinga was quoted as saying on a local cable television program.
 Representative Chris Van Hollen, the Maryland Democrat who heads the campaign committee, said Mr. Ozinga's opponent, State Senator Debbie Halvorson, ''is going to zero in on this like a laser beam.''
 All Democratic candidates, Mr. Van Hollen said, will try to invigorate the debate over health care by emphasizing its part in the country's economic travails.
 ''While there continues to be a moral issue of ensuring that our people have access to basic health care,'' he said, ''it's also a family budget issue and an economic issue in an era of global competition.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Tom Price says that while gasoline prices may have taken center stage, health care is still a potent campaign topic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); HEALTH CARE (78%); POLITICS (77%); TAX LAW (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (66%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (62%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (61%)

PERSON: TOM PRICE (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008



306 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: With Palin, the Issue Isn't Faith and Family

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Surprise Me Most'' (column, Sept. 9):
 When David Brooks says that Barack Obama needs ''to attack the snobs who are savaging Sarah Palin's faith and family,'' he does not account for what anyone in an organization responsible for hiring new employees knows: the applicant's background must show a good fit with the requirements of the job. 
 It is not snobbish to recognize that the job of vice president of the United States at this point in history requires a broad understanding of our diverse, globalized world and ways to strengthen the weakened position in it that this country has suffered over the last eight years.
 It is not snobbish to require practical answers to the fundamental issues of economic instability and insecurity on both the national and personal level, global energy and food shortages and imbalances, and the effects of natural resource depletion.
 It is not snobbish to require effective solutions to domestic problems of health care, education, infrastructure deterioration and retirement insecurity for the huge baby boom generation. 
 Nothing we have been told about Sarah Palin's background or thought processes indicates that she meets any of these requirements. It's not her faith and family that should bar her from holding this job. It's her remarkable lack of qualifications.
 Jane G. Bensahel New York, Sept. 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Did John McCain pick Sarah Palin to be his running mate because he believes that she is the most qualified candidate for our country's second highest office -- a heartbeat away from the presidency -- or was it a publicity stunt? 
 Choosing as his running mate an attractive, almost unknown, feisty young woman with little political experience, a contentious ideology and offbeat worldview (the ''weird'' factor David Brooks touts in his Sept. 9 column) over far more qualified members of his party has gotten Senator McCain the media attention he was seeking. 
 Was it a smart P.R. move? Definitely! Does it show us that Senator McCain puts ''country first''? I don't think so!
 When it comes to the presidential election, I hope that Mr. Brooks is wrong in claiming that ''weirdness wins.'' Weirdness is not what I want my country's government to be about.
 Ursula Mache Northbrook, Ill., Sept. 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks thinks that John McCain can bring about systemic change in Washington. But given how easily Mr. McCain recently caved in to the demands of the religious right, what backbone does he have left to stand up to the heady forces of Washington's special interests?
 Janet Abels New York, Sept. 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 If I understand David Brooks correctly, John McCain is doing well by emphasizing style over substance -- he has no unique or innovative policies, but he's a maverick-type guy.
 In this intellectually challenged country, it's entirely possible that style could win an election. But does anyone really think that style can govern?
 David Berman New York, Sept. 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); RELIGION (72%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); BABY BOOMERS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008



307 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2330 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times September 12th, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 PUZZLED-SOUNDING PUTIN
 Defends Georgia Invasion
 Vladimir V. Putin spent more than three hours before a collection of Russia experts from around the world, trying to make the case for Russia's having sent columns of armor into Georgia. In tones that were alternately pugilistic and needy, he expressed only bafflement that those in the West did not accept Russia's explanation that it had simply acted in defense of its citizens. PAGE A6
 INDICATION OF A COVER-UP
 A secretly recorded conversation played in a Miami courtroom indicated that members of Argentina's government may have participated in a cover-up with the government of President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela to hide the fact that $800,000 seized at a Buenos Aires airport was intended as a secret campaign contribution to Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, who was elected president of Argentina two months later. PAGE A14 
 FIGHTING DEMOCRACY IN THAILAND
 The thousands of protesters on the grounds on the prime minister's office in Bangkok may look like the kind of pro-democracy uprising that has toppled dictators from the Philippines to Serbia. But the new order they propose would replace an elected Parliament with one that is mostly appointed, keeping power in the hands of the country's royalist, bureaucratic, military elite. PAGE A12
 THE DAY THE BOMBS FELL
 Residents of Palomares, Spain, would like to forget the day more than 42 years ago when a United States bomber exploded during airborne refueling and dropped three of its hydrogen bombs around the poor farming village. But it is hard to forget when radioactive snails turn up and fresh tracts of land are confiscated for additional testing and cleanup. PAGE A13
 JAPAN NEGOTIATES IRAQ WITHDRAWAL
 Japan said that it wanted to withdraw its remaining military personnel from Iraq by year's end, wrapping up an overseas mission that has pleased Washington but divided Japan. Defense Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi said that the country was negotiating a withdrawal of its small military airlift mission because of the improved security situation in Iraq and that his country wanted to shift its priority to Afghanistan. PAGE A10
 PRAISE FOR NEW PAKISTAN LEADER
 President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan said that he had found a better working environment in Pakistan with the election of the new president, Asif Ali Zardari, above, welcoming what he described as the ''serious and fundamental change'' in Pakistan's attitude. Mr. Karzai had an often testy relationship with Mr. Zardari's predecessor, Pervez Musharraf. PAGE A10
 Russia Warns Poland on Pact A10
 National
 STUDY ON SPREAD OF H.I.V. FINDS BLACKS AT HIGHEST RISK
 An unusually detailed study of people newly infected with H.I.V. in the United States has confirmed that the majority of new cases occur among gay and bisexual men and that blacks are most at risk. But the data show that whites and blacks tend to be infected at different times in their lives with the virus that causes AIDS. PAGE A17 
 MONTANA GOVERNOR SPARKS STORM
 A political dust-up has blown up in Montana over a speech by Gov. Brian Schweitzer, above, from earlier this summer, archived and recently recovered on the Internet, in which he said he had exerted influence to swing the 2006 Senate race in favor of Jon Tester, a Democrat whose narrow victory swung majority control of the United States Senate to the Democrats. Mr. Schweitzer, a Democrat, now says the stories in the speech were entirely made up. PAGE A15 
 HEALTH CARE CEDES POLITICAL STAGE
 As energy and the economy consume more of the country's political discourse, health care is an issue that can seem to vacillate in importance by the day, the place and the audience. In some Congessional contests it has been placed front and center. But in others it has become absorbed by the electorate's broader anxiety. PAGE A20
 BIDEN ON THE TRAIL, GAFFES IN TOW
 On the campaign trail with Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic vice-presidential candidate, a day without a cringe-inducing gaffe is a rare blessing. He has not been too blessed lately. Just this week, Mr. Biden mused that the Democrats' nominee for president, Senator Barack Obama, might have been better off with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton as his running mate. PAGE A18 
 The Hockey Life in Wasilla A15 Obituaries
 GREGORY MCDONALD
 An Edgar Award-winning crime writer whose acidly funny novels starring the subversive sleuth I. M. Fletcher, breezily known as Fletch, have sold millions of copies and inspired two Hollywood films, he was 71. PAGE A21
 MARTIN TYTELL
 Perhaps the greatest of typewriter repairmen, he was a boon to American spies during World War II, the defense lawyers for Alger Hiss, writers like Dorothy Parker, newsmen like David Brinkley and thousands of everyday scriveners who needed him to keep their typewriters (not to mention their computer-resistant pride) intact. He was 94. PAGE A21 
 SPORTS
 DRAMATIC VICTORIES FUEL
 Tampa Bay's Playoff Drive
 The Tampa Bay Rays arrive in Yankeeland having taken two of three games against the Boston Red Sox in rather dramatic fashion. They got only two hits in 36 at-bats with runners in scoring position in the series. One was a three-run home run to win the finale. The other was a double to drive in the decisive run on Tuesday. ''We're in a good place right now,'' Manager Joe Maddon said. PAGE D5 
 HIS FATHER'S SON
 Chicago Bears fullback Jason McKie's father, Nevil, was a military man, a lifer, the kind of guy who retired from the Air Force after 21 years and 3 months of service. When it came time last year for McKie to choose a focus for philanthropic works, his father told him, ''Think about what you're close to.'' He did. The Jason McKie Foundation helps the families of soldiers. PAGE D32
 METRO 
 JUDGE THROWS OUT CHARGES
 From Steroids Investigation
 A judge threw out criminal indictments against the central figures in a wide-ranging national steroids investigation, citing a series of blunders and missteps by prosecutors for the Albany County district attorney, P. David Soares. If upheld, the decision could unravel other elements of Mr. Soares's criminal investigation, which has spanned at least four states and so far resulted in 17 guilty pleas. PAGE B1 
 AFGHAN INTRIGUE IN A COURTROOM
 The trial of Haji Bashir Noorzai, an Afghan man charged with running an international drug ring, is not unusual in having produced widely contrasting portraits of Mr. Noorzai's intent and motives. But the case has an extraordinary degree of intrigue about it because it has brought into a New York City courtroom the chaos of Afghanistan and the grip of its narcotics trade, and the looming figure of Mullah Mohammad Omar, one of the most wanted men in the world. PAGE B5 
 BUSH DEDICATES MEMORIAL
 For President Bush, the seventh anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks brought to mind a very specific number: 2,557, the number of days, as of Thursday, that have passed without another attack on American soil. Mr. Bush invoked that figure during a ceremony at the Pentagon, where he presided over the dedication of a memorial to honor the 184 men, women and children who died when a hijacked plane crashed into it. PAGE B2 
 BUSINESS
 WEATHER AGAIN INTERRUPTS
 Falling Gasoline Prices
 Hurricane Ike has forced thousands to fill up their car's gas tank and evacuate inland, draining many gas stations of their supplies completely. The storm has also forced oil companies to shut down major production and refining facilities in Texas, the second storm in two weeks to do so, forcing up gasoline prices even as the price of oil continued to decline on international markets. PAGE C1
 CHINA PRESSES FOR UNIONS
 China is putting pressure onsome of the world's biggest corporations to allow state-approved unions to form in their Chinese plants and offices, a move that seems to be part of an effort to address some of the ugly consequences of China's dynamic economic growth. But many companies fear that allowing the unions will significantly increase the cost of doing business there. PAGE C1
 A.I.G. CONTINUES DECLINE
 With investors looking at Lehman Brothers and worried that A.I.G. may be another collateral victim, A.I.G. shares closed down again, and are now nearly 50 percent off their value when the company's new chief executive, Robert B. Willumstad, took over in June. But a spokesman said the company would not let the market pressure it into speeding up the publication of the new business plan, scheduled for Sept. 25. PAGE C1
 SHORTCHANGING UNCLE SAM
 Downside: Monitoring by an arm of the Internal Revenue Service found that almost two out of three independent tax preparers -- the most numerous category -- failed to fill out accurate returns for their clients. Potential upside: Of those inaccurate returns, most were in the clients' favor. More downside: About one-third left clients paying too much. PAGE C4
 DEUTSCHE BANK WANTS POSTBANK
 Deutsche Bank is poised to announce on Friday that it will buy a controlling stake in Postbank, a relatively modest but profitable German institution. Postbank's falling share price in the last month helped tip the balance in favor of an acquisition, analysts said, outweighing concerns that its less-affluent client base would make for an uneasy fit with Deutsche Bank's own retail operations in Germany. PAGE C4
 JULY IMPORTS OUTPACE EXPORTS
 The trade deficit reached a 16-month high in July despite a 3.3 percent increase in exports from June. Demand rose for motor vehicles, consumer goods and industrial products. Imports were up 3.9 percent for the month, largely because of the surging cost of foreign petroleum and oil-derived products. A separate report said that prices of non-petroleum imports dipped slightly last month, an encouraging sign that inflation may have slowed. PAGE C4
 I.R.S. Urged to Stop Tax Schemes C4
 Weekend
 FINDING ART ON AND IN THE ASPHALT
 But Not a Spray Can to Be Found
 Street life conjures up a barrage of imagery. Graffiti, loud music, laughter, love and violence. The art of the streets often matches this explosion. ''Street Art Street Life,'' opening at the Bronx Museum of the Arts, is an exhibition of mostly black and white photographs, with some video installations, of city dwellers wearing their lives on their streets, writes Holland Cotter. Page E27 
 N.E.A. CHAIRMAN TO STEP DOWN
 When Dana Gioia was appointed president of the National Endowment for the Arts, he was ascending to a snarled mass. Infighting and politics had earned the organization a slashed budget and an uncertain future. Now that the agency has recovered somewhat, Mr. Gioia has decided to step down to focus on his own writing. Page E3 
 LETTING OUT YOUR INNER CLOWN
 Clowning may be the new source of solace for the troubled. Not the clowning of big red shoes, but that of physical clowns like Charlie Chaplin or Lucille Ball. Workshops, classes at major universities and a general influx of instructors to America display a trend. Leaving only the question: How do you teach people to be funny? Page E5 
 BLACK IN AMERICA, VIBRANT IN PAINT
 Aaron Douglas, muralist and painter, offers his vision of being African-American in 1920 America in ''Aaron Douglas: African-American Modernist,'' an exhibition at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture. Bringing an Afro-centric image, overlaid with a heroic, triumphant flavor, his works, such as a self-portrait, above, feature concentric bands of light, writes Ken Johnson. Page E29 
 ESCAPES
 CRUISING THE ROADS 
 Of Carolina's Lake Country
 It runs along the southern edge of Great Smoky Mountains National Park, but the lakes country -- west of Asheville, N.C., and south of Knoxville, Tenn. -- is free of Appalachia's standard roadside attractions and souvenir clutter. What it does have is fishing and hiking and mountain-biking and five dam-created reservoirs that some have called the Finger Lakes of the South. PAGE F1
 LOW-TECH GETAWAYS
 A weekend home away from the distractions of the 21st century requires not only skipping the cable or satellite TV access, Internet, cellphone or BlackBerry. Going low-tech calls for even less: no electric can opener, no microwave (except under certain extenuating circumstances) no dishwasher. Relax. It can be done. PAGE F2 
 Havens: Naples, Me. F3 
 'The Cape Cod of the Midwest' F4 
 Editorial
 ANYTHING GOES, APPARENTLY
 Two years ago, Inspector General Earl Devaney said: ''Short of a crime, anything goes at the Department of the Interior.'' It now appears that crime could be part of the mix. PAGE A22
 HELP FOR CUBA AND HAITI
 The devastating string of hurricanes that rushed through the Caribbean in the last month has left a scale of devastation that calls for an extraordinary assistance effort. So far, it is not happening. PAGE A22
 A MESSAGE FROM JOHN MCCAIN
 The most disheartening aspect of a scurrilous Republican ad falsely accusing Barack Obama of promoting sex education for kindergarten children is its closing line: ''I'm John McCain, and I approved this message.'' PAGE A22
 Op-Ed
 DAVID BROOKS
 Goldwater's vision was highly individualistic and celebrated a certain sort of person -- the stout pioneer crossing the West, the risk-taking entrepreneur with a vision, the stalwart hero fighting the collectivist foe. The problem is, this individualist description of human nature seems to be wrong, and it is the main impediment to Republican modernization. PAGE A23
 THE ORIGINS OF THE UNIVERSE
 In an Op-Ed article, Brian Greene, a professor of physics and mathematics at Columbia, explains how the Large Hadron Collider, which was turned on this week in a lab where many of the scientists wore pajamas, above, could help unlock the secrets of the universe and its origins. He also explains why the much-discussed risks of the collider creating a black hole that will devour the Earth are wildly overblown. PAGE A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (86%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); BOMBINGS (70%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (68%); ARMED FORCES (65%); GAYS & LESBIANS (63%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (54%); CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (54%); HAMAD KARZAI (54%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (54%); HUGO CHAVEZ (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); PAKISTAN (93%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); SPAIN (79%); SERBIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); POLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008



308 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: On the Web, a Nonpartisan Look at Those Partisan Campaign Ads

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
 It's sometimes hard to remember those early lofty campaign spots for Senator John McCain that put him on a par with Winston Churchill. Nowadays the gathering storm has turned into a gathers-no-moss effort to paint Senator Barack Obama as an ill-mannered sexist who favors sex education for kindergarten children and sends packs of Democratic wolves to gnaw on Gov. Sarah Palin's reputation. 
 Mr. Obama's pitch has devolved just as drastically. He went from gauzy testimonials to his patriotism and Midwestern values to painting Mr. McCain as a lame-brained George W. Bush clone in ads that rework Sam Cooke's ''Wonderful World'' to belittle his rival. (''I'm not up on the economy/Don't know much about industry.'') 
 The campaigns spent months and many millions of dollars to produce scores of television spots and Web ads that jumble together in a kaleidoscope of cropped sound bites and long, accusatory freeze frames. The political discourse is so overrun with negative ads and charges of guilt by association that voters can be forgiven for confusing which candidate is supposedly akin to Britney Spears and which one seems too close to President Bush, or who smeared whom with lipstick slurs.
 And all that 30-second clatter and confusion is what makes the Living Room Candidate so useful at this particular moment in the presidential campaign. The Web site (livingroomcandidate.org), which was created in 2000 by the Museum of the Moving Image in Astoria, Queens, returns every presidential election cycle with an ever larger collection of political ads dating from 1952 to the present. The 2008 edition, which is scheduled to go online on Friday, allows voters to scan the latest ads, local, national and Web-only, while dipping into the dim electoral past.
 It catalogs ads by years, and also by issue (''change'' is big this time around). It also offers instant reality checks: there is a link to Factcheck.org, a nonpartisan watchdog site, which checked the facts on one of the latest McCain attack ads, called ''Fact Check,'' which uses, and apparently misuses, Factcheck.org quotations. (''The ad strives to convey the message that FactCheck.org said 'completely false' attacks on Gov. Sarah Palin had come from Senator Barack Obama,'' Factcheck.org demurred. ''We said no such thing. We have yet to dispute any claim from the Obama campaign about Palin.'')
 Viewers can study those ads for themselves; they can also examine Mr. Obama's attack ad tailored for Ohio, which accuses Mr. McCain of having ''helped pave the way'' for the foreign-owned shipping company DHL to drive out an American company, as well as the anti-Obama spots by a conservative organization that accuse the Illinois senator of having ties to William Ayers, a former '60s radical who helped found the Weather Underground. 
 Negative ads that melt all degrees of separation seem like an innovation that began with the Willie Hortonization of Michael S. Dukakis in 1988. But that tactic reaches back to 1952, when an ad for Adlai Stevenson warned that Dwight D. Eisenhower would be in the foreign-policy thrall of Senator Robert A. Taft, an isolationist Republican from Ohio: the point is made by two cartoon hearts speared together and a mocking jingle that suggests that ''Ike'' is forever entwined with ''Bob.''
 There are some lost arts, however, notably political jingles. Popular music is mostly used sarcastically nowadays, but there was a time when it was used to pep up voters. Even in the cool, stylish age of ''Mad Men,'' John F. Kennedy ran a 1960 ad with music that sounded like the theme of a wacky early-'60s sitcom: ''Do you want a man for president who's seasoned through and through/But not so doggoned seasoned that he won't try something new?''
 The Living Room Candidate might seem obsolete in the age of YouTube and campaign sites that post every speech and advertising message. But it's more valuable now than ever, serving as both clearinghouse and curator. It provides voters with historical context and full disclosure: it distinguishes ads that are created by the candidate's official team from proxy attacks paid for by nonprofit but highly partisan political organizations -- a technique now known by the 2004 term ''Swiftboating.'' In this cycle, however, the campaigns have proved less squeamish than ever before and are perfectly happy to level the silliest charges in their own names. 
 This election's model is updated for the iTunes epoch as well. There are playlists, favorite ads by commentators who add their expertise or personal opinions to the mix. John Dickerson, a political correspondent for Slate, states that ''our presidential ads today are less tough and less fair,'' and includes on his playlist a 1964 ad by Barry Goldwater that cross-cuts American schoolchildren reciting the Pledge of Allegiance before the classroom flag with the Soviet leader Nikita S. Khrushchev saying, ''We will bury you,'' in a 1956 speech to Westerners. (Though even then, Mr. Khrushchev complained that his threat was taken out of context.) 
 In an election in which warring blogs, talk radio and 24-hour cable news opinionators blur the news, the Living Room Candidate is a state-of-the-art site that provides an old-fashioned, impartial and lingering look at the most partisan and quicksilver weapon in politics.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 15, 2008

 CORRECTION:
 A television column on Friday discussed a Web site, created by a museum in Astoria, Queens, that shows televised presidential campaign advertisements from 1952 to the present. While the column and an accompanying capsule summary about coverage at nytimes.com/tv correctly cited the name of the museum at the time it created the site in 2000 -- the American Museum of the Moving Image -- it has since changed its name to the Museum of the Moving Image.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A 1972 Nixon ad claimed that George McGovern would decimate the military.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE)
From the Living Room Candidate Web site: top, from left, Barack Obama in a John McCain spot
a Democratic portrayal of Mr. McCain. Bottom, from left, Bill Clinton meeting John F. Kennedy
 the ''Willie Horton'' attack on Michael S. Dukakis.(PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE)(pg. E21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (84%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); SARAH PALIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BRITNEY SPEARS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2008



309 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Gives Banks Urgent Warning To Solve Crisis

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH; Edmund L. Andrews reported from Washington, and Jenny Anderson, Vikas Bajaj and Eric Dash reported from New York.

 BODY:
This article was reported by Jenny Anderson, Edmund L. Andrews, Vikas Bajaj and Eric Dash and written by Mr. Dash.
 As Lehman Brothers teetered Friday evening, Federal Reserve officials summoned the heads of major Wall Street firms to a meeting in lower Manhattan and insisted they rescue the stricken investment bank and develop plans to stabilize the financial markets.
 Timothy F. Geithner, the president of the New York Federal Reserve, called a 6 p.m. meeting so that bank officials could review their financial exposures to Lehman Brothers and work out contingency plans over the possibility that the government would need to orchestrate an orderly liquidation of the firm on Monday, according to people briefed on the meeting. 
 Flanked by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Christopher Cox, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, he gathered the executives in person to impress on them the need to work together to resolve the current crisis. 
 Mr. Geithner told the participants that an industry solution was needed, no matter what, and that it was not about any individual bank, according to two people briefed on the meeting but who did not attend. They said he told them that if the industry failed to solve the problem their individual banks might be next.
 A spokesman for the New York Federal Reserve Bank in New York confirmed the meeting but declined to provide details on the discussions. The Wall Street executives included the following chief executives: Lloyd Blankfein of the Goldman Sachs Group, James Dimon of JPMorgan Chase, John Mack of Morgan Stanley, Vikram Pandit of Citigroup and John Thain of Merrill Lynch. Representatives from the Royal Bank of Scotland and the Bank of New York Mellon were also present. Lehman Brothers was noticeably absent from the talks. 
 The meeting was reminiscent of the circumstances that preceded the near-collapse 10 years go of Long Term Capital Management. At that time, William J. McDonough, then the president of the New York Fed, summoned the heads of big Wall Street banks to the Fed to stop the failure of L.T.C.M., a hedge fund firm that had made big bets on esoteric securities using borrowed money and which had already lost $4.5 billion.
 The bankers ended up committing $3.65 billion to save L.T.C.M., though Bear Stearns, the hedge fund's clearing broker, refused to contribute to the investment. Traders from the banks wound down the fund over time, averting what might have been big losses across the financial system. But the fallout from a failure of Lehman Brothers could be even more severe, given the firm's much larger size and its entanglements with trading partners around the globe. 
 Policy makers fear its losses could ripple through the financial industry at a time when banks and securities firms are trying to overcome $500 billion in write-downs.
 One observer briefed on the situation described the session as a ''game of chicken'' between the government and the heads of the major banks. 
 Bank of America and two British firms, Barclays and HSBC, have expressed interest in bidding for Lehman Brothers, according to people briefed on the situation. But they have indicated that their bids are contingent upon receiving support from the government, just as it did with the rescues of Bear Stearns, and the government-sponsored agencies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 But Mr. Paulson and Mr. Geithner made it clear to the company, its potential suitors and to the meeting participants on Friday that the government has no plans to put taxpayer money on the line. The government is deeply worried that its actions have created a moral hazard and the Federal Reserve does not want to reach deeper into its coffers. Instead, Mr. Paulson and Mr. Geithner insist that Wall Street needs to come up with an industry solution to try to stabilize Lehman Brothers and calm the markets. 
 Still, some of the other Wall Street banks, facing billions of dollars in losses themselves, have resisted this approach. They argue that Lehman Brothers overreached and brought its current troubles on itself. If there are no bidders for Lehman Brothers, these banks say they can collect their collateral and liquidate the troubled firm's assets. In this high-stake game, they may also be trying to call the government's bluff, knowing that if push came to shove, it would provide financial support. 
 Mr. Geithner, who led the session, firmly stood his ground. He told the banks that this was about fixing the system and preventing the crisis from worsening.
 By the time Lehman's shares went into a spiral this week, Fed and Treasury officials were convinced that Lehman posed far fewer real risks than Bear Stearns had back in March. The confidence by Washington officials stemmed from the fact that, after the Bear Stearns collapse, they obtained stronger regulatory powers that gave them the ability to peer into the activities and risk exposures of institutions on Wall Street. 
 Fed officials, for example, are now embedded at each of the big Wall Street investment banks and have at least some capacity gauge the firms' exposure to hedge funds and other big players, as well as their positions in financial derivatives and other opaque markets. Fed and Treasury officials have also been taking the daily pulse of executives and traders on Wall Street for months, and much of that discussion has been about Lehman. 
 Officials detected a rising number of defections by Lehman's institutional customers to other firms, but nothing near the panic that caused Wall Street executives to bombard Mr. Paulson with dire warnings about a Bear Stearns collapse in March. 
 Fed officials also saw few signs that fears about the future of the investment bank were spilling over to fears about its customers and trading partners. 
 And in practice, taxpayers could still end up on the hook for at least as much money as they were in the case of Bear Stearns. Lehman's successor will still be able to borrow from the Fed's new lending program for major investment banks, which the Fed created in response to the collapse of Bear Stearns in March. If Lehman were to borrow money and then default on its loans, the Fed's losses would reduce the amount of money it turns over to the Treasury.
 For political and economic reasons, both the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department are loath to save financial institutions from their own folly.
 But as the housing crisis has deepened, they have abandoned free-market orthodoxy, fearing that the collapse of institutions like Bear Stearns or either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac could cripple the financial markets, and perhaps the economy itself.
 One of the biggest differences between the challenge facing Lehman and the one that faced Bear Stearns is the availability of the Fed's emergency lending program for investment banks.
 When confidence evaporated in Bear, with major hedge funds pulling their prime brokerage accounts, Bear's financing ran out almost overnight, creating a panic situation. Lehman has had the power to plug any cash shortfalls by borrowing from the Fed, though it has not actually borrowed any money from the program since March.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (72%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (66%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BK (NYSE) (84%); RBS (NYSE) (66%); RBS (LSE) (66%); RBS (AMS) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (72%); CHRISTOPHER COX (57%); JOHN THAIN (56%); HENRY PAULSON (56%); JAMES DIMON (56%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (56%); VIKRAM PANDIT (53%); STEPHEN F LYNCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



310 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING COMPANY NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 60 words

HEADLINE: Alaska Airlines To Cut Capacity and Jobs

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Alaska Airlines said it would cut capacity by 8 percent this winter and eliminate up to 1,000 jobs in response to high fuel costs and a weak economy. The job cuts represent about 10 percent of the airline's employees. The carrier, a unit of the Alaska Air Group of Seattle, said the capacity reductions would start on Nov. 9 and continue throughout next year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (86%)

COMPANY: ALASKA AIR GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: ALK (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



311 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Inflation Falls, as Do Retail Sales

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
News on the economy was mixed on Friday morning, with the release of a mildly relieving Producer Price Index report and a discouraging retail sales report for August.
 The price index for finished goods, a measure of the change in prices businesses pay, fell 0.9 percent in August after a 1.2 percent increase in July, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The August decline was the biggest since October 2006.
 Consumers' spending on retail and food decreased 0.3 percent in August after a 0.5 monthly drop in July, according to the Commerce Department. Economists had been expecting an increase of 0.2 percent. 
 ''It's a ray of hope on the inflationary front, but dark clouds on the horizon for consumers,'' the chief economist at Merk Mutual Funds, Joseph Brusuelas, said. ''If you're not confused, you're not paying attention.''
 Stock markets initially fell on the reports, but stabilized by noon on Friday. 
 The decline in producer prices was largely driven by falling energy costs. Energy prices declined 4.6 percent during the month, although they are still 27.4 percent above where they were a year ago. Partly because energy prices remain historically high, the index for finished goods is 9.6 percent higher than it was a year ago. Stripping out energy and food, which both tend to be volatile, the index for finished goods increased 0.2 percent over July, and a record 3.6 percent over the last year. 
 Measures of pipeline inflation, or prices for raw and partly processed materials, were also lower in August 2008 than they were in the previous month, but higher than they were a year ago. The price fluctuations in these goods, like those for finished goods, were also largely driven by energy prices.
 ''What we get from this report is that the decline in energy prices is weighing on headline inflation,'' the chief United States economist at Barclays Capital, Dean Maki, said. ''One wouldn't want to conclude that inflation is no longer an issue.''
 While there is still ground to make up, the monthly drops in the price indices should be good news for policy makers at the Federal Reserve, who have expressed concern about higher inflation. The Fed is expected to leave interest rates unchanged when it meets next week.
 ''This is exactly what the Fed was waiting for,'' the senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute, Jared Bernstein, said. ''The decline in prices reflects weakening demand, and in this case at the producer level. We know that the retail sales reflect the same thing at the consumer level.''
 August is normally a good month for retailers as families shop for the new school year, but the areas where back-to-school budgets are often spent fell last month. Sales on electronics fell 1.3 percent, and clothing and clothing accessories sales were down 0.3 percent. Department stores saw declines of 1.5 percent from the previous month, and nonstore retailers, considered a proxy for online sellers, fell 2.3 percent in the month. 
 ''The retail report was bad, no two ways about it,'' Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at Global Insight, said. ''We think consumer spending will drop this quarter, and we haven't had any quarter in which real consumer spending has declined since 1991.''
 The one bright spot in the retail report was auto sales, which were up 1.9 percent over July. Economists said this was probably because car sellers were offering deep discounts to lure back customers. Not including sales of motor vehicles and parts, retail spending was down 0.7 percent from July.
 Retail sales probably fell for several reasons, economists said. For one, the fiscal stimulus checks that had bolstered consumer spending over the last few months ended in July. Consumers, squeezed by high energy prices and an ailing job market, are expected to reduce their spending for the rest of the year. 
 One concern is the jobless rate, which jumped to 6.1 percent in August, its highest level in five years, from 5.7 percent in July. The steady rise in unemployment is one that many economists associate with recession.
 ''I think the consumer is the weak link in the economy right now,'' said Bruce Bittles, chief investment strategist at Robert W. Baird & Company. ''They're heavily in debt, overbought, and obviously with the housing situation, they're under financial stress.''
 Dropping gas prices seem to have benefited consumers psychologically, at least, even if these declines are not being reflected in retail sales. The preliminary September consumer sentiment index, released by Reuters and the University of Michigan Friday morning, showed the biggest monthly improvement in American consumers' views of the economy since January 2004. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Retail Sales: Total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart shows bar graph.
 Producer Prices: Index of finished goods prices, 1982 =100, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Labor Department) Chart details line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUDGETS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); STATISTICS (72%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (60%); MUTUAL FUNDS (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



312 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: Party Peer Pressure, and Why You Shouldn't Succumb to It

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND. 
E-mail: shortcuts@nytimes.com

 BODY:
PLANNING a big event -- a wedding, a bar mitzvah, a 50th anniversary -- can be a little like having a serious ailment.
 It consumes many of your waking hours, not necessarily because you are doing anything about it but because your mind is awhirl with details. You talk about it far too often to friends and family -- and to your dentist, your mail carrier and the lady standing next to you at the post office.
 All right, I know these are joyous occasions that should not be compared to a grave illness. But there is one other similarity between the two -- both can play havoc with your bank account.
 As careful readers of this column know, my son's bar mitzvah is coming up -- now less than three months away. And I see how easy it is, despite the best of intentions, to get caught up in the type of peer pressure that we all hoped we had left behind in high school. 
 Psychologically, there are some obvious reasons that it is so easy to lose our sense of self when planning an event that is considered a passage of life, be it a wedding or a quinceanera. Most of these affairs are highly ritualized -- not just the ceremonies, but the festivities as well -- leading to tension between following custom and putting one's stamp of individuality on the affair.
 And of course we want -- subtly, of course -- to outshine everyone else. 
 Such events have become an extension of the general trend over the last few decades to buy more and bigger. And easy credit and access to loans now make it feasible, if not sensible, for people to spend more than they have on a big day.
 Economically speaking, ''as the top 20 percent has pulled away from the other 80 percent, that 20 percent sets the trend, and many among the 80 percent take on debt to keep up,'' said Juliet B. Schor, a professor of sociology at Boston College and author of ''The Overspent American'' (Basic Books, 1998).
 Professor Schor pointed out that people often start the whole process by saying they just want something simple and ''come out the other end with something much more elaborate.''
 The trouble is, we remember the over-the-top parties, even if it is simply to disparage them, even if we weren't there. There is the girl in Pittsburgh whose bat mitzvah party featured a ''Titanic'' movie theme with a giant replica of the ship, complete with 12-foot steaming smokestacks, and phosphorescent faux icebergs. The extravaganza was echoed later in the 2006 bar mitzvah movie classic, ''Keeping Up With the Steins.''
 Professor Schor recounts how her daughter heard about a bat mitzvah in the Rainbow Room in Manhattan, where Beyonce sang and the party favors were Coach bags.
 It might not even be true, she said, but ''that sets the upper limit in thinking about it. The most outrageous stories have what we call a saliency bias. We never give a second thought to the bar mitzvahs held in a backyard, but the upscale ones take on too much importance.''
 Television, of course, contributes to this. We may like to snicker at shows like ''My Super Sweet 16,'' with teenagers like Margaret Ann whose parents shower her with a BMW convertible, a Hummer and a jet ski. Or my personal vice, ''Platinum Weddings,'' in which adoring couples spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to impress themselves and their friends.
 We may laugh. But just as what appears in department stores is a toned-down version of the runway fashions, such shows help shape, even subconsciously, people's visions of what their big day should look like.
 Patricia Arend, one of Professor Schor's students, is writing her doctoral dissertation on women's fantasies about weddings and how consumer desire works. One reason for the high cost (the national average is $28,704, according to the Wedding Report, a research firm Web site), she said, is that ''the wedding industry has been extremely successful in inserting shopping into the wedding ritual.''
 For example, for some, making an outing of looking for a wedding dress is now as much a part of the tradition as the engagement ring and bridal shower. Women will go to a high-end wedding boutique with their mothers and friends to try on dresses, with the intention of buying a less expensive one somewhere else, Ms. Arend said.
 ''But then you try on a really nice dress with the fine material and craftsmanship,'' she said. ''and the salespeople say, 'Why wouldn't you want to spend this for the most important day of your life?' '' And suddenly the bride is paying two or three times more for a dress than she intended to.
 ''As more and more of these things become normalized, it's harder to resist them,'' she said. 
 Aiming at brides is nothing new: wedding sections in department stores began in the 1930s, when marketers, operating on the theory that ''love knows no Depression,'' figured that people who could not spend much on other goods would be willing to pay for a wedding dress.
 Interestingly, Professor Schor said, it seems as if the desire to have ever more sumptuous affairs is growing at the same time as the very institutions these festivities are meant to honor -- marriage, religion or culture -- can feel increasingly fragile or distant to many people.
 I know how easy it is to get caught up, especially if someone who seems to be an authority is telling you how it's ''always'' done. We plan to donate the centerpieces for the adult tables to an organization my son is volunteering for. That way, we figured, we would be charitable and not have a bunch of flowers to throw out at the end of the night.
 I stopped at a local flower shop to see if they had ideas on how to do up the donations tastefully. Ten minutes later, I emerged, dazed, with an estimate for $700 for ''must-have'' flowers for the cocktail tables and entryway. That is not counting the arrangements suggested for the bathrooms, which I had nixed.
 Fortunately, after I came to my senses, I realized that $700 was a lot of money, even if it now seemed like a drop in the bucket. Also, we didn't want flowers. I had somehow forgotten that.
 Here is some sound advice from financial experts about how to keep a handle on the costs.
 Write out a budget, and then make the same assumption you would with a renovation -- expect to go over by 10 percent -- said Jean Chatzky, who regularly writes on financial issues and is the author of ''Make Money, Not Excuses'' (Crown, 2006).
 ''Once you come up with a number, if you take from Column A because you want $700 flowers, then you have to lose something from Column B,'' she said. If you find you cannot afford a dinner party, make it lunch. If that doesn't work, make it brunch. ''Every June,'' Ms. Chatzky said, ''I get e-mails from couples who have gone into debt for a wedding and ask: 'Why did we do this? It was just one day.' Think about how many days you have to work for that one day.''
 It is even more sobering when you calculate, as Nancy Berk, a clinical psychologist and humor writer, said, that one event can exceed a year's tuition at a private university.
 So estimate what you can afford and determine what is really important to you in terms of the material items. How much do you want to spend on invitations -- will printed ones without the lined envelopes do just fine or do you absolutely need the engraved ones? Can an able relative or friend do the photography? 
 If it is a casual outdoor event, can you use paper plates, as Ms. Chatzky did, saving almost $10 a head? Do you need floor-length tablecloths or will shorter, cheaper ones do? 
 And a helpful mantra to keep repeating -- remember the significance of the occasion and what it is supposed to mean. It is not the amount of money spent that makes an event fun. And, as Ms. Berk says, ''No one has ever criticized a bar mitzvah because of a bad napkin color.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Flowers, elaborate food and fancy tableware can put the price tag of a special-occasion party into the stratosphere.
 Gowns and other items were displayed at the Wedding Salon, a convention held in May in Manhattan. The national average price tag for a wedding is $28,704, according to a research firm.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); WRITERS (60%); FILM (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



313 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: A Not-Quite-a-Dollar Store Closes In on the Buck

BYLINE: By KEN JAWOROWSKI

 BODY:
A DOLLAR will still buy any item in a 99 Cents Only store, but don't expect a penny change. Later this month, the company, based in City of Commerce, Calif., will raise its top price to 99.99 cents (rounded up to a dollar at the register, of course), giving it some extra revenue and allowing the stores to keep the nines in their names. 
 While a troubled economy and rising inflation have been bringing crowds of new customers into so-called dollar stores, the businesses themselves are facing rapidly increasing costs for transportation, labor and products. For 99 Cents Only, whose nearly 300 stores are in California, Arizona, Nevada and Texas, the price increase will be the first in its 26-year history. 
 Eric Schiffer, 47, the chief executive of 99 Cents Only Stores, spoke recently about his company, which sells more than a billion dollars of goods a year, and how it is coping with mounting expenses.
 Q.How is the sluggish economy affecting your company's sales?
 A. This year, we're doing more business than we've ever done. We've seen an increase in traffic. I've talked to people that hadn't been to our stores before. They're new customers, and their rationale for coming in was their pocketbooks are getting squeezed. They've always been a little curious about our stores but never felt the need to come in. 
 Q.Who are your typical customers?
 A. We span from lower income to upscale. Our company's highest sales volume store is our store on Wilshire Boulevard. It's literally two and a half blocks from Beverly Hills, and that store did over $10 million a year, and nothing in the store is currently over 99 cents.
 Q.How much does the average customer purchase per visit?
 A. The average sale is about $9.50.
 Q.Is a one-cent price increase really going to help the company?
 A. It's significant to us. If you're the Gap, and you're selling something for 20 bucks or 30 bucks, to make a price increase of a penny is meaningless. But when everything is 99 cents or less, a penny is at least a percent increase. We're doing $1.2 billion in sales. Hopefully, we'll have much of the $12 million increase in sales drop to the bottom line -- which gives us a lot of breathing room. It's one part of our overall plan to increase the company's profitability.
 Q.How long can you continue to sell products for less than a dollar?
 A. I don't know the answer. The inflation and the rise in commodity prices across the board that we've seen over the last year and a half have been unprecedented. Our founder, Dave Gold, who is still our chairman, he's been around a long time, an old-time merchant. He says he's never seen a consistent rise in commodity prices across the board like we've had. If that continues for an extended period of time, we'll have to relook at this. There's no question about it. 
 Q.Instead of raising prices or offering smaller quantities, what other options do you have to increase revenue?
 A. Remerchandising efforts, and we have a significant number of them, which will allow us to improve our gross margin. We used to sell everything for either 99 cents, or two for 99 cents, or three for 99 cents. If something wasn't a good value for 99 cents, our next price point was all the way down to two for 99 cents. That's a pretty big drop. We now have instituted variable pricing, where we can do 89 cents, 79 cents, all the way down to 9 cents. 
 Q.What is your average gross profit margin on a product?
 A. On average, we pay about 60 cents for an item and we are selling it for about 99 cents.
 Q.What country is the biggest supplier of the items you sell?
 A. The vast majority of everything we buy is made in the U.S.A. That surprises a lot of people. We sell mostly food, cleaning products, which are water-based and very heavy to ship. Health and beauty care products -- again, water-based, so the shampoos and everything come from here. Our imports are probably about 15 percent. I would say the United States is by far the lion's share. 
 Q.What are your biggest-selling products?
 A. About 50 percent of our mix is food and beverages. We sell a lot of water. We sell a lot of produce, a ton of batteries. 
 Q.What are some of your favorite items that you sell?
 A. My eyesight's not as good as it used to be. I think the reading glasses are phenomenal. You're always losing them. They cost $15 to $20 in another store, and we sell reading glasses for 99 cents. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric Schiffer 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); METALS MARKETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

COMPANY: 99 CENTS ONLY STORES (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (85%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



314 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says it Will Oust Venezuela Envoy, and Names 2 Officials as Rebel Backers

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Mark Landler contributed reporting from Washington, and Graham Bowley from New York.

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela 

 BODY:
The United States stepped up the diplomatic skirmish with its left-wing adversaries in Latin America on Friday, saying it would expel the Venezuelan ambassador and declaring that Venezuela's top two intelligence officials had supported the ''narco-terrorist activities'' of rebels in the region. 
 The moves heightened the political tensions that have been building between the United States and Venezuela and Bolivia in recent days, sending shudders through financial markets here and rekindling fears in Washington of a cold war-style contest in the region as Venezuela grows increasingly close to Russia.
 The recent salvos began on Wednesday, when Bolivia's embattled president, Evo Morales, expelled the American ambassador there, Philip S. Goldberg, accusing him of supporting rebellious groups in eastern Bolivia. 
 Then on Thursday, President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela said he was expelling the American ambassador to his country, Patrick Duddy, expressing solidarity with Mr. Morales and contending that an American-supported coup plot against him had been discovered. 
 The State Department responded by declaring Bolivia's ambassador to Washington persona non grata. Then on Friday morning, it said it would expel Venezuela's ambassador, while the Treasury Department accused the Venezuelan intelligence officials of aiding Colombia's largest rebel group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, ''even as it terrorized and kidnapped innocents.'' 
 It was the first time the United States declared specific Venezuelan officials to be supporters of the FARC, but the designation stopped short of a more serious option debated in Washington in recent months: classifying Venezuela as a state sponsor of terrorism. Such a move could significantly affect the $50 billion in annual trade between the countries, potentially rendering Venezuela's oil off limits to American markets. 
 Still, a Bush administration official said the expulsion of the American ambassador would inject fresh urgency into those deliberations, and that new economic steps against Venezuela were being explored. 
 ''Our expelling their ambassador is not the end of things,'' said the official, who asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to speak publicly.
 A second American official said the accusations against the Venezuelan spymasters ''could be an initial designation,'' possibly opening the way to Venezuela's being placed on the terrorism list.
 Responding to the actions, Venezuela's foreign minister, Nicolas Maduro, said in a statement on Friday that ''Venezuela has decided to submit its entire relations with the United States to an intense review process.'' 
 In announcing its action on Friday, the Treasury Department said that the head of Venezuela's military intelligence agency, Gen. Hugo Carvajal, protected drug shipments from seizure by Venezuelan antidrug authorities and helped provide weapons to the FARC, which the United States considers a terrorist organization. 
 The Treasury Department also said that Gen. Henry Rangel Silva, the director of Venezuela's Disip intelligence agency, ''materially assisted'' the FARC's drug trafficking activities and pushed for greater cooperation between the Venezuelan government and the rebels.
 In addition, the Treasury Department said a third official, Ramon Rodriguez Chacin, who resigned as interior minister this week, was the Venezuelan government's main weapons contact for the FARC. It said the rebel group used proceeds from narcotics sales to buy weapons from the Venezuelan government. 
 In accusing the three officials, Washington punctured Mr. Chavez's inner circle. Both intelligence officials have been longstanding confidants of the president, while Mr. Rodriguez Chacin was a key figure in Mr. Chavez's recent hostage-release negotiations with the FARC. None of the three men responded Friday to calls seeking comment. 
 Senior American officials said the designation of Venezuelan officials as supporters of the FARC was unrelated to the expulsions of American ambassadors in Bolivia and Venezuela. But the move came at a time of increased sparring between the United States and Venezuela over a variety of issues, including claims that Venezuela is growing as a transshipment point for cocaine and concerns about the safety of Venezuela's airports for American airlines. 
 Mr. Chavez's plans for military exercises with Russia's navy in the Caribbean have also raised the stakes of the political drama unfolding this week, pointing to efforts by Venezuela to aggressively counter American military influence in the region at a time when the United States Navy has reactivated a fleet to patrol Latin American waters. 
 ''From the U.S. standpoint, the growing security alliance between Venezuela and Russia makes Chavez more of a problem today than was the case before the Georgia crisis erupted and the chilling of U.S.-Russia relations,'' said Michael Shifter, vice president for policy at the Inter-American Dialogue, a research group in Washington. 
 But there are significant internal issues that could be playing into these disputes as well. Bolivia is grappling with violent, spreading protests in its increasingly ungovernable eastern lowlands. On Friday the Bolivian government announced a state of siege in Pando Province and sent troops there. 
 In Venezuela, Mr. Chavez's government is facing uncomfortable revelations about its spying operations and attempted bribery in a trial of a pro-Chavez Venezuelan tycoon taking place in a Miami courtroom, as well as rising inflation and potential losses in regional elections later this year. 
 ''Don't believe for a moment that either expulsion had anything to do with an imminent danger of aggression from a waning U.S. administration already in way over its head in the Middle East and with Russia,'' said Adam Isacson, an expert on the Andean drug war at the Center for International Policy, a research group in Washington. ''What we have here are two leaders badly in need of an external threat to rally their domestic bases at a volatile political moment.'' 
 As for the Bush administration, it has been unable to engage either of those governments effectively, and anti-American sentiment has been mounting in the countries for years, a phenomenon aptly stoked by both Mr. Morales and Mr. Chavez. In Venezuela, that sentiment took off in 2002, when the Bush administration tacitly approved a coup that briefly toppled Mr. Chavez. 
 With oil prices falling on international markets in recent weeks, the latest surge of political tension added to financial fears here on Friday. The currency, the bolivar, plunged more than 10 percent in black-market trading to 4.5 to the dollar, while Venezuelan bonds fell to their lowest values in four years on concern that Venezuela's oil exports to the United States might be disrupted. 
 While Mr. Chavez threatened yet again this week to halt American-bound oil cargoes, such a situation remains unlikely. For all the warnings, refusing to sell oil would probably hurt Venezuela more than the United States. 
 America is the country's main customer for its oil, and therefore the most significant financier of Mr. Chavez's attempts to assert great state control over Venezuelan society. By contrast, American refiners could buy oil elsewhere, though a disruption in Venezuelan oil supplies could cause ripples in an already weak American economy.
 In fact, the skirmish already appeared to have some repercussions. Honduras said Friday that it had postponed the accreditation of the American ambassador there, voicing support for Bolivia and Venezuela yet insisting that it had not broken relations with the United States.
 The Treasury Department's action on Friday was based on information gleaned from computers recovered in a raid on a FARC camp in Ecuador last March by Colombian security forces, as well as other intelligence sources, according to the second Bush administration official.
 In copies of the computer files obtained by The New York Times last March, a member of the FARC's seven-member secretariat refers to General Carvajal, the Venezuelan military intelligence chief, as arranging an arms deal for the guerrillas through Panama. In another reference, General Carvajal was also mentioned as a liaison for dealing with the killing of six Venezuelan soldiers by the FARC on Venezuelan soil that month. 
 With Mr. Chavez's latest charges of an American-supported coup plot, several current and former military officers have been detained here for questioning, giving rise to complaints among domestic critics. 
 ''Show respect, President,'' said Miguel Henrique Otero, publisher of the newspaper El Nacional and a coordinator of a group opposing Mr. Chavez's socialist-inspired policies. ''The only coup plotter is you,'' he continued, making a reference to Mr. Chavez's failed attempt in 1992 to overthrow Venezuela's government. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Venezuela's Embassy in Washington on Friday. Political disputes between the United States and Venezuela are on the rise.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); NARCOTERRORISM (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); ESPIONAGE (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); COUPS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); POLITICS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (82%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); BOLIVIA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); COLOMBIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



315 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Russia Stock Market Fall Is Said to Imperil Oil Boom

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Rattled by falling oil prices and the war in Georgia, Russia's stock market has slumped so severely that it now threatens the country's oil-fueled boom of recent years, economists say.
 The benchmark RTS index has lost 46 percent of its value since its peak in May, representing a paper loss of about $700 billion for Russian companies. Much of that decline has come since the war in Georgia and the subsequent war of words with the United States and Europe that unsettled foreign investors, who began withdrawing capital. 
 On Friday the RTS, which peaked in May at 2,487, rebounded slightly, rising 3.36 percent to close at 1,342. The country's other main stock exchange, the MICEX, was rose 6 percent on Friday, after weeks of heavy losses. 
 While initially seen as a problem confined to the Russian stock market, which is volatile in the best of times, the drop in share prices is now spilling over to the real economy. Companies that had pledged shares as collateral for loans, for example, are now facing margin calls, bankers in Moscow say. 
 ''It's a classic squeeze,'' said Roland Nash, chief strategist for Renaissance Capital in Moscow.
 The underlying problem for the Russian stock market is that about 80 percent of the shares are in companies exporting commodities with a history of boom-bust cycles. Additionally, the risk premium for investing in Russia has risen with the war. 
 It is unclear which problem caused more damage. In one indication that Russian politics lubricated the market slide here, however, investors have pulled nearly $5 billion this year from emerging market funds with a heavy Russia weighting, according to EPFR Global, a company that tracks fund flows. By comparison, investments in Middle East and African funds, which are also seen as dependent on commodity prices, have risen this year. 
 The decline has elicited a response from officials here that economists described as panicky, including a number of plans that would have seemed inconceivable a few months ago. 
 For next year, Russian officials are projecting federal revenue growth of 1.8 percent, compared with an estimated 13.8 percent this year. Just in the last week, the value of Russia's hard currency reserves has dropped $8.9 billion. The ruble is down 6 percent since the war in Georgia. 
 ''The government and central bank need to do all they can to ensure inflow of additional financial resources into the financial market,'' President Dmitri A. Medvedev said Thursday. ''This is absolutely obvious, and this must be done for sure.''
 The finance minister, Aleksei L. Kudrin, who had opposed investing any of Russia's $573 billion in hard currency reserves in the domestic market during a milder correction a year ago, this week approved of the idea. Mr. Kudrin added Thursday that the government might also tap money in the state pension fund to invest in equities.
 In a stop-gap measure, the Central Bank has injected more than $11 billion into the Russian banking system and is intervening to halt the daily decline in the ruble's exchange rate with the dollar. Investors, however, remained skeptical. 
 ''Going forward, one of the big issues that people have with the Russian market is too much state ownership, too much manipulation,'' Rory MacFarquhar, an economist for Goldman Sachs in Moscow, said in a telephone interview. ''Nobody is going to believe that is not politicized.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



316 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: Sweet Dreams in Hard Times Help Lottery Sales Set Records

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA; Catrin Einhorn contributed reporting from Chicago, and Sean D. Hamill from Pittsburgh.

 BODY:
When gasoline prices shot up this year, Peggy Seemann thought about saving the $10 she spends weekly on lottery tickets.
 But the prospect that the $10 could become $100 million or more was too appealing. So rather than stop buying Mega Millions tickets, Ms. Seemann, 50, who lives in suburban Chicago and works in advertising sales for a financial Web site, saved money instead by packing her lunch a few days a week, keeping alive her dreams of hitting a jackpot and retiring as a multimillionaire. 
 ''With companies tightening and not giving cost-of-living increases, you have to try to make money elsewhere,'' she said, though conceding, ''It might be convoluted logic.''
 Many state lotteries across the country are experiencing record sales, driven in part by intense marketing but also by people like Ms. Seemann who are trying to turn a lottery ticket into a ticket out of hard times. 
 ''When people view themselves as doing worse financially, then that motivates them to purchase lottery tickets,'' said Emily Haisley, a postdoctoral associate at the Yale School of Management who in July published a research paper on lotteries in The Journal of Behavioral Decision Making. ''People look to the lottery to get back to where they were financially.'' 
 Of the 42 states with lotteries, at least 29 reported increased sales in their most recent fiscal year. And of those 29, at least 22, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, set sales records. Further, sales in some states are on a pace to finish higher still in the current year.
 ''I was surprised, because I thought with gas prices up and people not leaving the pump to go into the stores, we'd see a greater impact'' on the downside, said Jodie Winnett, acting superintendent of the Illinois Lottery, whose sales increased 3 percent in the last fiscal year and are doing even better this year.
 Others are not at all surprised. 
 Rebecca Hargrove, president of the Tennessee Lottery, said that in her 25 years working in lotteries, ''I've noticed that if there's a recession or a downturn in the economy, people cut back: it might be on the new car, the new house or the new fridge.''
 ''But the average player spends $3 to $5 a week on lottery tickets,'' Ms. Hargrove said, ''and it's a pretty benign purchase.''
 John Mikesell, a professor of public finance and policy analysis at Indiana University, published a study in 1994 showing that from 1983 to 1991, lottery sales tended to rise with unemployment rates.
 ''The findings were that in slump periods, lotteries historically have gotten a little bump upward,'' said Professor Mikesell, who has not analyzed recent lottery data. ''It's taking a shot at getting some relief in hard times. It's usually not a good gamble, but it's a dollar, and if they happen to accidentally hit it, it may well change their lives.'' 
 To be sure, other factors as well are pushing lottery sales. Lottery directors have spent the last few years heavily marketing their products through greater presence in stores, new games and partnerships with sports teams and television shows. 
 Among their new offerings are $20 and $50 scratch-off tickets that provide higher payouts, as well as additional fast-paced electronic games, part of the goal being to draw players who might otherwise head to a casino. Indeed, New York State's 10 percent increase in lottery sales in the last fiscal year was due largely to the introduction of more video lottery terminals.
 ''We're going after discretionary entertainment dollars,'' said Anne M. Noble, president of the Connecticut Lottery, whose sales increase last year was 4.3 percent. ''Let's keep it fresh, keep it fun, encourage people to play in moderation and use the money they do have.''
 In Massachusetts, where the per-capita sales volume last year was $707, the highest in the country, officials rolled out a $20 instant-win ticket in September, partly in hopes of appealing to gamblers who might be tempted to go to one of the two casinos in neighboring Connecticut.
 It seems to have worked. Thanks in part to the introduction of the ticket, the Massachusetts Lottery achieved a record $4.7 billion in sales for the 12 months ended June 30, compared with $4.4 billion for the year before, and sales have continued to rise in the two months since the end of the fiscal year.
 Drawing those casino players to the lotteries has been crucial. Though experts say casino gambling and lotteries have both been historically recession-proof, high gasoline and food prices have contributed to a revenue decline experienced this year by gambling destinations including Las Vegas and Atlantic City. (Atlantic City did record a slight rise in August.)
 ''The lotteries are on every street corner, and you do have to travel a bit to get to a casino as a general rule,'' said John Kindt, a professor of business administration at the University of Illinois who has studied lotteries. ''The accessibility of the lotteries is a plus for them. They're in everybody's backyard.''
 The higher sales of the current economic downturn have generally drawn higher net revenue along with them, in continuation of a longer trend. A study issued in June by the Rockefeller Institute of Government, a research arm of the State University of New York, found that lottery revenue had grown steadily over the last 10 years, with the highest growth rates during the nation's last recession, in 2001-2.
 Increased lottery returns do little to offset declines in larger sources of revenue, like sales and income taxes, that have forced some states to impose hiring freezes, layoffs and wage reductions during the current downturn. ''If your personal income tax is weak or sales tax is weak, the lottery isn't enough to make up for that,'' said Scott D. Pattison, executive director of the National Association of State Budget Officers. ''But any revenue that is doing well, or at least not too bad, certainly helps.''
 Somewhat incongruously, there is a thought that the hard times contributing to the lottery sales boom may well bring about its demise: if the economic slump continues, or even deepens, the thinking goes, many players may at last have had enough. 
 No one can know, of course, whether that reversal will be fully realized. But a survey of regular players by Independent Lottery Research, a consulting firm based in Chicago, found last month that 20 percent of them were already playing less or buying less expensive tickets. 
 So lottery directors are girding for the possibility of their own hard times, and that means staying innovative. To keep players buying, Buddy W. Roogow, director of the Maryland Lottery, is partnering with sports teams -- a winning player may get tickets to a home-team game, for instance, rather than cash -- and has introduced a simulated-racetrack game. ''We have a challenge ahead of us,'' Mr. Roogow said.
 For now, anyway, Sheyda Belli, 38, a human resources director in Aliquippa, Pa., continues playing the lottery, though she and her husband tightened their belts by canceling their summer vacation and cutting back on all manner of other expenses, including cable television and eating out. 
 ''I always joke with my husband that I'm a winner,'' Ms Belli said, ''until they tell me I'm not.''
 The other day Lou Mott, who owns a convenience store in Aliquippa, a town that has struggled since its steel mills closed in the 1980s, sold tickets to about 40 people in the 45 minutes before the state lottery numbers were broadcast. Most spent $10 or more each. 
 Though Mr. Mott shakes his head in bewilderment at some of his repeat customers, including one retired woman who spends up to several hundred dollars a day on scratch-off tickets, he understands the motivation.
 ''I guess everyone is looking for a rainbow,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOTTERIES (95%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COST OF LIVING (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



317 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Be Strong, Investor

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER. 
Undiversified without apology? Make your case to rlieber@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It's pretty hard to stick with a long-term plan for your money when the financial world seems to be unraveling around you.
 You were probably already uneasy about home prices, job stability and inflation. Then the government took over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Lehman Brothers scrambled for a buyer and the stock of Washington Mutual fell below $3 amid concerns about its own shaky standing -- and that's just in the last week.
 The temptation is to climb under the covers, money safely in the mattress, and hide from a world that has surely changed forever. 
 ''The big question that people ask during these things: 'Is it different this time?' '' says J. Mark Joseph, of Sentinel Wealth Management in Reston, Va. 
 And is it? Well, no, not really. And as with any market disruption, you need to start by staring down the volatility and putting it in context. Then, face up to whatever fears led you to stop investing money or to move everything into safer vehicles -- or to seriously ponder those alternatives. 
 Finally, resolve to be brave (and well diversified).
 Let's take these steps point by point:
 THE VOLATILITY COULD BE WORSE It's perfectly understandable if you feel as if you have whiplash right about now. Any single company or industry is increasingly susceptible to the forces of global competition, the rapid flow of information and the variety of ways in which sophisticated investors can place big bets. 
 On a macro level, too, the markets feel unstable, flying up on Monday with relief over the Fannie and Freddie rescue and then plummeting Tuesday over broader concerns about the health of financial firms. 
 By certain measures, however, the stock market isn't bouncing around as much as it has at other times. So far this year, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has risen or fallen more than 1 percent in a single day 42 percent of the time. That's just the 11th-highest figure since 1928.
 Or check the ''investor fear gauge,'' otherwise known as the VIX, shorthand for the Chicago Board Options Exchange's Volatility Index. It measures market expectations of near-term volatility as expressed through the prices that people pay for options on the S.& P. 500 index. At many points from 1997 to 2002, the VIX reached higher levels than where it sits now.
 That said, for the last year, the VIX has hovered at levels higher than any point in the previous four years, and it has hit those levels for reasons that give everyday investors pause about the markets. 
 Milo M. Benningfield, of Benningfield Financial Advisors in San Francisco, rattled off a number of them this week, including increased hedge fund activity; lack of guidance on corporate earnings, leading to surprises and stock gyrations each quarter; and opaque company balance sheets, which the companies themselves seem to revalue every few months.
 ACCEPT FEAR Your natural inclination is probably to sell everything and invest in certificates of deposit or throw the proceeds in a money market fund. In fact, evolution insists on these feelings. 
 ''We had survival mechanisms built in to avoid sitting around debating whether we should run away from the saber-toothed tiger,'' Mr. Benningfield said. ''That's the fundamental problem with long-term investing. Our skills aren't really that transferable to the challenges involved.''
 These skills can be learned, however, and Brent Kessel, the president of Abacus Wealth Partners, thinks yoga offers some crucial lessons. Mr. Kessel, a money manager and financial planner in Los Angeles who is a longtime yogi himself, noted that most people try to get rid of their fear of the markets through some kind of external action, like selling. 
 ''This is where yoga comes in,'' he said. ''It's the practice of breathing through discomfort. You intentionally put your body in postures that are right at the edge of discomfort and then cultivate the ability to stay there. You tend to find it passes if you give it time, but instead we rush to the Internet to trade on our portfolios.''
 A more constructive move at this particular moment might be to redirect your worry toward other areas of risk in your life. Mr. Kessel said that if he were an estate-planning lawyer, he'd be calling clients right now to get them to address any half-finished paperwork. 
 ''Market corrections are just a foreshadowing of what death is going to feel like,'' he said. ''We're all trying to avoid death. That's what we're wired to do as human beings.''
 NOW, BE BRAVE Investing in the middle of market gyrations isn't just a question of controlling the urge to sell indiscriminately. It's also about taking a close look at the contents of your portfolio and then forcing yourself to fix an asset allocation that is out of whack and to buy in sectors of the markets that are out of favor. 
 At this moment, familiar names in your portfolio may make you feel comfortable. Perhaps it's a concentrated stock holding in your employer, whose business you know quite well. Or maybe you have some securities from a parent or grandparent, and you feel an almost familial obligation to collect the dividend and preserve the inheritance. Or you live in Cincinnati and are certain that Procter & Gamble can survive any calamity. 
 Yes, Fannie and Freddie and Lehman and WaMu can go to zero or close to it, but not your holding. ''It happened to them, but it's not going to happen to us,'' is the argument that F. John Deyeso of Financial Filosophy, a financial planning firm in New York City, hears frequently.
 Maybe not. But consider how concentrated your risk is in other aspects of your life. Most of, if not all of, your income is from a single employer. If your spouse works for another one, then perhaps you're a bit more diversified, but not much. 
 Your home, if you own one, may well be your largest asset. But it's a single property in a particular region. Your portfolio is the only place where it's even possible to diversify much. 
 Still tempted to cut off your 401(k) contributions, or funnel them all into cash? Well, how will you know when it's time to get back into stocks? Chances are, by the time you're comfortable with the markets you will have missed a good chunk of the rebound. 
 Better, then, to keep investing in a mix of stock and bond funds, international and domestic, large and small, with some alternative asset classes thrown in for good measure, which are appropriate for your goals and risk tolerance. 
 Through index funds and various similar investments, Mr. Kessel of Abacus Wealth Partners has his clients in more than 11,000 stocks around the world at any given moment. 
 Though no financial planners wish losses on anyone, plenty of them appreciate the way market calamities reinforce some fundamental truths. ''I think these things are great,'' said Mr. Joseph of Sentinel Wealth Management. 
 ''It helps people get back to, as boring as it is, the fact that diversification works. And you never end up getting killed in something like this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (72%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); CBOE HOLDINGS INC (63%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (57%)

TICKER: CBOE (NASDAQ) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (63%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



318 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 69 words

HEADLINE: Chip Maker To Sell or Close 4 Plants

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
NXP Semiconductors said it would close or sell four plants, including one in New York State, and cut 4,500 jobs. NXP, the former chip-making arm of Royal Philips Electronics, said the cuts were a result of a poor economy, weak dollar and the sale of its wireless chip-making operations. NXP said it would close or sell factories in Fishkill, N.Y.; Caen, France; Hamburg, Germany; and Nijmegen, the Netherlands. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); LAYOFFS (88%)

COMPANY: KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS) (58%)

TICKER: PHIA (BIT) (58%); PHIA (AMS) (58%); PHG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); BASSE-NORMANDIE, FRANCE (65%) GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); NETHERLANDS (90%); FRANCE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



319 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Hidden Cost Seen for City If Term Limits Are Shelved

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
The elected leaders pushing to overturn New York City's term limits say they are motivated by principled objections to the 15-year-old law.
 But should they succeed, many stand to gain a significant financial perk: lifetime retiree health insurance that costs the city up to $12,600 a year. 
 Those benefits could amount to millions of dollars in expenses over the next few decades, especially as health insurance costs surge, according to interviews with city officials. 
 Under current rules, city employees must work 10 years and pay into the pension system to become eligible for retiree health benefits. But the term limits law restricts members of the City Council, the mayor, public advocate, comptroller and borough presidents to two consecutive four-year terms -- two years shy of the requirement. 
 Changing term limits to three consecutive terms instead of two, as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and members of the Council have hinted they might, would allow those officials -- and members of their staff -- to hit the 10-year mark without having to look for a new job with the city.
 In interviews, citywide officeholders and council members scoffed at the idea that a perk would influence their position on term limits. Many said they were unaware of the eligibility requirements for retiree health insurance. 
 But the benefit could still open those who support changing the rule to fresh charges of self-dealing. ''It's great work if you can get it -- and if you can keep it, because of the benefits,'' said Dick Dadey, executive director of Citizens Union, a nonprofit watchdog group in the city. 
 Many elected officials, like Comptroller William C. Thompson and Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn, are already eligible for retiree health benefits because they previously worked for the city or state government for 10 years.
 But according to public documents and interviews, a dozen or so council members will not be eligible when their two terms are completed, and would quite likely benefit from extending term limits. Each council member generally has a staff of at least two people.
 The most likely route for any change in the term limits law is through the Council, which can pass legislation revising the measure without voter ratification. New York voters approved the two-term limit in a 1993 referendum, and reaffirmed it in 1996.
 Asked about the retiree health benefits, Mr. Thompson, the comptroller, said city officials should change the law only through another referendum to dispel any perception of self-dealing. ''There is just too much self-interest involved,'' he said. ''And this would add to that perception.''
 Mr. Thompson, a likely candidate for mayor next year, added: ''Voting to extend your own term is just the wrong thing to do.''
 Council members said the health benefits would have no influence over their decision-making on term limits. They noted that a majority of members already qualify for retiree health insurance through prior jobs. For example, Councilman G. Oliver Koppell, who has vowed to introduce legislation that would extend term limits to three consecutive terms, said he will receive such retiree health care from the state of New York because he served in the Assembly for 23 years. 
 ''In no way would this benefit me in terms of health care,'' he said. 
 Mr. Koppell, a Democrat from the Bronx, said he ''doubted the issue is on anyone's mind. I've never heard it brought up.''
 He jokingly added, ''It might be a good selling point, though.''
 One of the councilmen who could benefit from extending term limits is Eric N. Gioia, who will be forced from office by term limits next year and is not already eligible for the retirement health insurance from the city. But Mr. Gioia, a 35-year-old Democrat from Queens, said that ''it never entered my mind. Retirement is so far off, I really don't think about it.''
 Mr. Gioia said he would support changing term limits only through a referendum -- and that with or without term limits, he is running for public advocate next year. Should he win, he will reach the 10 years of service required for the benefit. 
 Another member likely to benefit from extending the limits is Alan J. Gerson, a Democrat from Manhattan who, like Mr. Gioia, was elected in 2001. But he said ''it has never crossed my mind.''
 Like many council members, Mr. Gerson said that retiree health insurance is not a motivation for changing term limits because working for the city or state for 10 years is not an especially high hurdle. ''Just about any council member who wants to can get a job with the city,'' after they leave office, he said. 
 As for the cost of adding council members to the retiree health rolls, he said: ''I just don't see this as a budget issue. It's a policy issue, and it may be a perception issue -- legitimately so.''
 Members who rejoin the Council after sitting out a term also could qualify for the retiree health insurance benefit.
 The cost of providing retiree health benefits to a city employee who enrolls in a family insurance plan is about $12,600 a year today. If such an employee retires at age 55 and lives until 78, it would cost the city $225,302, according to an analysis confirmed by the city's Office of Labor Relations. 
 The cost of insuring an individual -- rather than a family -- in the same situation is $121,441. (Those figures are not adjusted for inflation or the rising cost of health care, which would likely make them considerably larger.)
 Mr. Thompson, who as comptroller is the city's top financial watchdog, said that ''if there is a significant dollar cost associated with an extension of term limits, that should be part of the debate.''
 As the economy sours, the city's budget deficits are expected to balloon over the next several years, and officials are looking for ways to cut costs. Nevertheless, Mayor Bloomberg, who is known as a fiscal conservative, is largely driving the discussion about changing term limits.
 In remarks and in conversations with associates, Mr. Bloomberg has invited the Council to send him legislation that would allow him and them to seek a third term. A Bloomberg spokesman declined to comment.
 James F. Hanley, commissioner of the city's Office of Labor Relations, which administers the employee health benefits program, said, ''We are always looking at cost-containment measures.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERM LIMITS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); APPROVALS (70%); REFERENDUMS (64%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



320 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Markets, Distracted by Lehman's Woes, Close Mixed

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks finished another volatile session narrowly mixed Friday, as gains in the energy, utilities and materials sectors offset some of Wall Street's angst over the fate of Lehman Brothers Holdings.
 The three major indexes all managed to end the week higher.
 The troubles of the financial sector dominated trading, as investors tried to glean insights into Lehman's race to sell itself or otherwise regain Wall Street's confidence. The company's shares have spiraled lower this week, heaping pressure on executives at the company to line up a buyer or source of fresh cash. 
 Lehman's shares, which tumbled 42 percent Thursday and are down more than 94 percent for the year, fell another 74 cents, or 16.8 percent, to $3.65 on Friday.
 The market is anticipating that Lehman will arrive at a deal over the weekend, said Ryan Larson, senior equity trader at Voyageur Asset Management. Lehman, the government and other banks have been declining to comment officially on the issue, but bankers and industry executives have been saying that Lehman is working feverishly to find a buyer.
 Closure on the issue would help, but the market is likely to remain turbulent, Mr. Larson said.
 ''Once this deal gets done, you'll see sentiment shift to: Who's next?'' he said. 
 An unexpected slowdown at cash registers last month also weighed on the stock market Friday, particularly on shares of retailers and other consumer discretionary stocks. The Commerce Department said retail sales fell by 0.3 percent in August.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 11.72 points, or 0.10 percent, to 11,421.99, after falling more than 150 points in the early going.
 Broader stock indicators also came well off their lows. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.65 points, or 0.21 percent, to 1,251.70, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 3.05 points, or 0.14 percent, to 2,261.27.
 The Dow finished the week up 1.79 percent; the S.& P. finished up 0.76 percent; and the Nasdaq ended up 0.24 percent.
 Bond prices fell. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note was down 20/32, at 102 10/32 and the yield, which moves opposite the price, rose to 3.72 percent, from 3.64 percent late Thursday. The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices rose.
 Light, sweet crude oil rose 31 cents to settle at $101.18 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange after briefly crossing below the $100 mark for the first time in five months. Investors tracked Hurricane Ike, which churned across the Gulf of Mexico toward the Texas coast and refining and drilling operations in the region.
 Worries about risky debt have been hitting other financial stocks this week. The American International Group fell $5.80 on Friday, or 33 percent, to $11.75, making it by far the biggest decliner among the 30 stocks that make up the Dow Jones industrial average.
 Merrill Lynch & Company fell $2.38, or 12.3 percent, to $17.05, while Washington Mutual slipped 10 cents, or 3.5 percent, to $2.73.
 The economic outlook is also keeping the markets volatile.
 After the Commerce Department's report on retail sales, investors turned cautious on retailers and other companies that rely on discretionary spending. Macy's fell $1.04, or 4.8 percent, to $20.81, while Best Buy fell $1.51, or 3.3 percent, to $44.49.
 Not all the economic news was unwelcome Friday. Another government report showing a bigger-than-expected drop in wholesale inflation, the steepest decline in nearly two years, at least eased some worries about pricing pressure. And a Reuters/University of Michigan survey on sentiment showed consumers were more upbeat than they were earlier in the summer when energy prices were higher.
 Beyond the financial sector, energy and materials companies advanced. Dow components Exxon Mobil rose $1.94, or 2.6 percent, to $77.50, and Alcoa rose $1.05, or 3.8 percent, to $28.67.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for daily activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); CURRENCIES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); BONDS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (77%); METALS MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); RETAILERS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); RETAIL SALES (64%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (91%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%); VOYAGEUR ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (56%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



321 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING LEGAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: Fidelity In Securities Settlement With New York

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
Fidelity Investments, the mutual fund giant, will buy back $300 million worth of auction-rate securities by the end of the year as part of a settlement with the New York attorney general's office. According to the terms of the deal, Fidelity will not pay a fine. Most of the large originators of auction-rate securities have already reached settlements with state regulators and the Securities and Exchange Commission. The banks held the auctions at which interest rates on these securities were reset, often weekly. After the onset of the credit crisis, they began saddling investors with securities they could not resell. So far the big banks have repurchased more than $35 billion of the securities and paid more than $360 million in fines. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); SECURITIES LAW (88%); FINES & PENALTIES (87%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%)

COMPANY: FMR CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



322 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Speculation on Identity of Hospital That Prosecutors Say Paid Legislator

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; Danny Hakim and Benjamin Weiser contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Every legislative session, hospital executives trek to Albany and corral their legislators in an effort to get more money and better terms for their struggling facilities in New York City.
 Last March, as the Legislature was rushing to complete a state budget, one such hospital's executives were on the case, lobbying a state assemblyman using jargon that translated into a lifeline.
 ''We need a basic inflation factor,'' an executive at the hospital pleaded to Assemblyman Anthony S. Seminerio on March 13. 
 But the hospital did not just show up with hat in hand. According to a federal criminal complaint, the hospital and an affiliated health care plan were paying Mr. Seminerio for his help: about $390,000 since 2000.
 The hospital went to Mr. Seminerio, a longtime Democratic assemblyman who represents the 38th Assembly District in southwest Queens, from Maspeth to Richmond Hill, at a time when he was the subject of a federal investigation into influence peddling, and the conversation -- as well as his later requests for payments for his services -- was recorded by the F.B.I.
 Although the complaint against Mr. Seminerio, 73, who was arrested on Wednesday, does not reveal the name of the hospital or the two executives recorded talking to him, several hospital industry officials said that the hospital described in the complaint fit the profile of Jamaica Hospital Medical Center in Queens. The identities of ''Hospital Executive 1 and 2'', remained unclear on Friday. 
 Mr. Seminerio, who was released on $500,000 bond, declined to comment. The hospital's top executives, David P. Rosen, the chief executive, and Bruce J. Flanz, the executive vice president and chief operating officer, did not return calls seeking comment, and a hospital spokesman, Ole Pedersen, had no comment.
 The world of Queens hospitals is by and large far removed from that of their more prestigious brethren in Manhattan. Jamaica Hospital is part of MediSys Health Network, which includes Brookdale University Hospital Medical Center in Brooklyn and Flushing Hospital Medical Center in Queens. They serve mostly poor and immigrant populations and depend heavily on Medicaid reimbursements, which are partly controlled by the state. Their finances are always precarious.
 Industry officials said on Friday that the federal complaint was most striking in the banality of the events it described. They said that hospital officials were merely doing their jobs by seeking a local lawmaker's help in fighting cuts to what is known in Albany as ''the trend factor'' -- an inflation adjustment to Medicaid reimbursements.
 Hospitals are perennially trying to stave off cuts to the trend factor, which can cost the industry hundreds of millions of dollars in aid. Lawmakers, in turn, routinely bring such concerns to legislative leaders and the governor's office.
 The problem, according to the complaint, was that Mr. Seminerio was being paid for his services. While the complaint accused Mr. Seminerio of breaking a federal fraud law, it pointed out that state law, too, made it a crime for Assembly members ''to receive payments of any kind for taking official action.''
 Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, a major lobbying group, said on Friday that he was mystified about why any hospital might feel the need to pay a lawmaker to tackle something like Medicaid reimbursement when the hospital association hired economists and lobbyists to deal with such matters.
 ''Hospitals, at least to my knowledge, do not use any outside consultants to augment what the association does to any significant degree'' Mr. Raske said. ''Whether they have individual issues is another matter.''
 The complaint does describe what might be considered one individual issue. It transcribes a call in which Hospital Executive 2 expresses interest in acquiring other hospitals, which could require state financing.
 In another taped conversation, on Aug. 11, Mr. Seminerio boasts to Executive 2 that he ''screamed'' at an Assembly leader over proposed hospital budget cuts. Mr. Seminerio proudly recites his argument, and concludes, ''What good is it if I'm the most educated bastard in the world and I can't get health treatment?''
 To which Executive 2 eventually replies, ''There you go.''
 Federal prosecutors say that for such feats of consulting, the hospital and affiliated entities paid Mr. Seminerio $310,000 through a shell organization, Marc Consultants, between April 2000 and September 2008. During the same period, a Medicaid managed health care plan affiliated with the hospital paid the assemblyman $80,000, according to the complaint. MediSys is affiliated with a plan called Neighborhood Health Providers. 
 Top executives of Jamaica Hospital have made campaign contributions to Mr. Seminerio. Mr. Rosen has given $10,000 since 1999 and Mr. Flanz, $6,500, according to state records.
 A spokeswoman for the United States attorney's office in Manhattan declined on Friday to say whether the actions of any of the hospital executives were being scrutinized. But in announcing Mr. Seminerio's arrest on Wednesday, the United States Attorney, Michael J. Garcia, said the investigation was continuing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TRENDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MEDICAID (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); BAIL (70%); ARRESTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



323 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: China's Economic Might Used in Diplomatic Deal

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
As part of an incentive package to persuade Costa Rica to shift its diplomatic recognition from Taiwan to China last year, China used the muscle of its enormous foreign exchange reserves, agreeing to buy $300 million of Costa Rican bonds, documents released in Costa Rica this week revealed.
 The deal shows that China is using its $1.8 trillion in foreign exchange reserves, the world's largest such cache of foreign currency, to further its political goals, despite promises that it would not do so. 
 As China's economic might has risen in recent years, so has concern about its international reach, particularly in the United States. China is thought to be the largest foreign holder of United States government-backed debt, and bankers estimate that $1 trillion of China's total foreign exchange reserves are in American securities. 
 The terms of the agreement were meant to be kept secret, according to La Nacion, a Costa Rican newspaper, but the government was forced by the constitutional court to publish the memorandum of understanding signed by both countries, as well as other documents. The court considered the information to be in the public's interest. 
 The memorandum, posted on the Web site of Costa Rica's Foreign Ministry, is dated June 1, 2007, the month that China and Costa Rica established diplomatic relations, and it is co-signed by Yang Jiechi, China's foreign minister.
 The memorandum states that in return for Costa Rica's shutting its embassy in Taiwan and expelling Taiwanese diplomats, China agreed to buy $300 million in bonds.
 It also agreed to give $130 million in aid to Costa Rica, as well as other incentives, including 20 scholarships each year for Costa Ricans to study in China. 
 The documents show that the Chinese State Administration of Foreign Exchange, the secretive organization that is the steward of China's foreign exchange reserves, agreed to buy $150 million in state bonds, with a term of 12 years and carrying an interest rate of 2 percent per year, in January of this year and a further $150 million in January 2009.
 La Nacion reported that the Costa Rican finance minister, Guillermo Zuniga, had warned this week that the decision to make the details of the agreement public could jeopardize the purchase of the second set of bonds by China. It quoted the Chinese ambassador to Costa Rica, Wang Xiaoyu, as saying that China was now assessing the impact on relations between the countries. 
 In a statement published Wednesday, Vice President Laura Chinchilla defended the agreement. ''We believe that the country received only positive news with the establishment of this relationship,'' she said.
 China's ruling Communist Party considers Taiwan, a democracy of 23 million, a rebel province that must be brought back into the fold. China has threatened to use force to reclaim Taiwan if it takes steps to formalize its de facto independence from the mainland.
 China for years has devoted considerable diplomatic energy and financial resources to persuading other countries to sever ties with Taiwan. After Costa Rica's switch to China last year, Taiwan was left with only a small circle of 23 international supporters, most of them tiny, poor nations, while Beijing commands the support of 171 nations. 
 China has also worked to block Taiwan from joining certain international bodies, like the World Health Organization. Both sides have vied for friends with lavish offers of financial aid and infrastructure projects, but the involvement of the foreign exchange administration in providing a lure is a new one.
 The revelation that the foreign exchange administration had used funds under its supervision to achieve China's diplomatic goals may complicate the agency's efforts to broaden and diversify the investment of China's largely dollar-based foreign currency holdings.
 Both the foreign exchange administration and the China Investment Corporation, a state-run investment fund that has a separate role in investing China's foreign-currency holdings in overseas assets, are eager to find new, more lucrative outlets for earning profits in dollar-based investments. 
 But politicians in the United States have raised concerns that China could use such investments as leverage to realize political and diplomatic goals that sometimes clash with Washington's priorities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); BONDS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); POLITICS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); CURRENCIES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); COSTA RICA (99%); TAIWAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



324 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Portraying McCain as a Man of the Past

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
This 30-second advertisement for Senator Barack Obama was introduced Friday and is to run on national cable networks and on television stations in some swing states. 
 PRODUCER The Obama Media Team 
 THE SCRIPT An announcer says: ''1982. John McCain goes to Washington. Things have changed in the last 26 years, but McCain hasn't. He admits he still doesn't know how to use a computer, can't send an e-mail. Still doesn't understand the economy. And favors 200 billion in new tax cuts for corporations, but almost nothing for the middle class. After one president who was out of touch, we just can't afford more of the same.'' 
 ON SCREEN The commercial opens with an image of a disco ball and 1982 flashes on the screen. A younger Mr. McCain, a new congressman, is shown at a hearing. His hair, longer than it is today, is rumpled and his large glasses offer a retro look. An old cellphone, a record player, an early-model computer and a Rubik's Cube flash on the screen. Fast-forward to present day, a Macintosh computer is shown. A video clip shows Mr. McCain stepping from a golf cart with former President George Bush, with the words ''Doesn't understand the economy.'' Champagne flutes clink and a family shopping at a supermarket appears as the message turns to tax cuts. The advertisement closes with Mr. McCain grinning as he stands by the current President Bush.
 ACCURACY Mr. McCain has told reporters that he does not regularly use a computer and was trying to learn how to send e-mail messages. A quotation from last year about Mr. McCain not understanding the economy can be misleading because it omits statements he has since made. The tax argument accurately states that Mr. McCain favors reducing the corporate income tax rate. The bulk of his tax-cutting proposals would benefit those with higher incomes, while Mr. Obama says he wants much larger tax breaks for low- and middle-income Americans. 
 SCORECARD The overriding message of this advertisement is that Mr. McCain -- who is 72, though the commercial never mentions that -- is out of touch and out of date. The Obama campaign says the intention is to show how long Mr. McCain has served in Washington, but it also suggests that he may not be equipped to handle today's fast-moving problems. By linking him to two Bush presidents, the advertisement tries to deflate the message that McCain would be a candidate of change. But will Mr. Obama attract older voters with this message? JEFF ZELENY 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); INCOME TAX (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%); CORPORATE TAX (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



325 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: She's Not Ready

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
While watching the Sarah Palin interview with Charlie Gibson Thursday night, and the coverage of the Palin phenomenon in general, I've gotten the scary feeling, for the first time in my life, that dimwittedness is not just on the march in the U.S., but that it might actually prevail.
 How is it that this woman could have been selected to be the vice presidential candidate on a major party ticket? How is it that so much of the mainstream media has dropped all pretense of seriousness to hop aboard the bandwagon and go along for the giddy ride? 
 For those who haven't noticed, we're electing a president and vice president, not selecting a winner on ''American Idol.''
 Ms. Palin may be a perfectly competent and reasonably intelligent woman (however troubling her views on evolution and global warming may be), but she is not ready to be vice president.
 With most candidates for high public office, the question is whether one agrees with them on the major issues of the day. With Ms. Palin, it's not about agreeing or disagreeing. She doesn't appear to understand some of the most important issues.
 ''Do you believe in the Bush doctrine?'' Mr. Gibson asked during the interview. Ms. Palin looked like an unprepared student who wanted nothing so much as to escape this encounter with the school principal. 
 Clueless, she asked, ''In what respect, Charlie?''
 ''Well, what do you interpret it to be?'' said Mr. Gibson.
 ''His worldview?'' asked Ms. Palin.
 Later, in the spin zones of cable TV, commentators repeatedly made the point that there are probably very few voters -- some specifically mentioned ''hockey moms'' -- who could explain the Bush doctrine. But that's exactly the reason we have such long and intense campaigns. You want to find the individuals who best understand these issues, who will address them in sophisticated and creative ways that enhance the well-being of the nation.
 The Bush doctrine, which flung open the doors to the catastrophe in Iraq, was such a fundamental aspect of the administration's foreign policy that it staggers the imagination that we could have someone no further than a whisper away from the White House who doesn't even know what it is.
 You can't imagine that John McCain or Barack Obama or Joe Biden or Hillary Clinton or Joe Lieberman would not know what the Bush doctrine is. But Sarah Palin? Absolutely clueless.
 Ms. Palin's problem is not that she was mayor of a small town or has only been in the Alaska governor's office a short while. Her problem (and now ours) is that she is not well versed on the critical matters confronting the country at one of the most crucial turning points in its history.
 The economy is in a tailspin. The financial sector is lurching about on rubbery legs. We're mired in self-defeating energy policies. We're at war. And we are still vulnerable to the very real threat of international terrorism.
 With all of that and more being the case, how can it be a good idea to set in motion the possibility that Americans might wake up one morning to find that Sarah Palin is president?
 I feel for Ms. Palin's son who has been shipped off to the war in Iraq. But at his deployment ceremony, which was on the same day as the Charlie Gibson interview, Sept. 11, she told the audience of soldiers that they would be fighting ''the enemies who planned and carried out and rejoiced in the death of thousands of Americans.''
 Was she deliberately falsifying history, or does she still not know that Iraq and Saddam Hussein had nothing to do with the Sept. 11 attacks?
 To burnish the foreign policy credentials of a vice presidential candidate who never even had a passport until last year, the Republicans have been touting Alaska's proximity to Russia. (Imagine the derisive laughter in conservative circles if the Democrats had tried such nonsense.) So Mr. Gibson asked Ms. Palin, ''What insight into Russian actions, particularly in the last couple of weeks, does the proximity of the state give you?''
 She said, ''They're our next-door neighbors. And you can actually see Russia from land here in Alaska. From an island in Alaska.''
 Mr. Gibson tried again. ''But what insight does that give you,'' he asked, ''into what they're doing in Georgia?''
 John McCain, who is shameless about promoting himself as America's ultimate patriot, put the best interests of the nation aside in making his incredibly reckless choice of a running mate. But there is a profound double standard in this country. The likes of John McCain and George W. Bush can do the craziest, most irresponsible things imaginable, and it only seems to help them politically. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); MAYORS (76%); GOVERNORS (71%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (70%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); REALITY TELEVISION (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); GLOBAL WARMING (53%); FOREIGN POLICY (50%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); JOE BIDEN (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JOE LIEBERMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



326 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Problem

 BODY:
President Nicolas Sarkozy of France did not go to Moscow this week with a strong diplomatic hand, and the Russians knew it. President Dmitri Medvedev of Russia agreed to withdraw his troops from most of Georgia by mid-October, but he is insisting on keeping nearly 8,000 in the two breakaway enclaves of South Ossetia and Abkhazia. Those, he says, are now independent. 
 Russia cannot be allowed to redraw Georgia's (or anyone else's) borders by force. Until the Europeans stand together -- and with the United States -- against Moscow's bullying, Russia's leaders will feel little pressure to change their behavior. 
 The European Union is divided between the desperately frightened and the myopically complacent. In the first group are former Soviet satellites, like Poland and the Baltic states, which have earned their fear, joined by Britain. In the second are Germany, Italy and France (Mr. Sarkozy is the exception), which have put trade and a thirst for Russian energy ahead of everything else. 
 If the second group believes that they are somehow immune -- because of history or geography -- from Moscow's bullying, then they should take another look at their dependence on Russian energy supplies. 
 Georgia's pro-Western president, Mikheil Saakashvili, eagerly fell into Moscow's trap when he tried to retake South Ossetia by force and gave Moscow the pretext to invade Georgia. That blunder makes it even less likely that Georgia will regain full control over the two enclaves, but their ultimate status must be decided by international mediation, not Russian occupation. 
 Flush with oil and gas wealth, Moscow holds a lot of cards, but not as many as it believes. European energy importers would have more leverage if they started pooling their buying power and stockpiling strategic reserves. Few Russians -- and certainly not Prime Minister Vladimir Putin's many business class partners -- are eager to go back to the bad-old days of isolation. 
 The Bush administration has correctly recognized that unilateral action is unlikely to make a difference. The message must come firmly and from both sides of the Atlantic that there can be no business as usual until Russia returns to playing by the rules. 
 The most useful pressure is the sort that can be quickly rolled back, like Washington's decision to suspend action on a civilian nuclear agreement that could be worth billions to Moscow.
 Europe has deferred talks with Russia on a new economic and security pact until it completes its promised troop withdrawal. That is not enough. The European Union should not resume talks until Russia agrees to admit European monitors to both South Ossetia and Abkhazia and to international mediation on the enclaves' status. 
 More complacency will only feed Russia's ambitions. That can't be good for Europe or anyone else. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (68%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (89%); DMITRY MEDVEDEV (74%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (59%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) EUROPE (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); GEORGIA (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); POLAND (79%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



327 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Gov. Palin's Worldview

 BODY:
As we watched Sarah Palin on TV the last couple of days, we kept wondering what on earth John McCain was thinking.
 If he seriously thought this first-term governor -- with less than two years in office -- was qualified to be president, if necessary, at such a dangerous time, it raises profound questions about his judgment. If the choice was, as we suspect, a tactical move, then it was shockingly irresponsible.
 It was bad enough that Ms. Palin's performance in the first televised interviews she has done since she joined the Republican ticket was so visibly scripted and lacking in awareness. 
 What made it so much worse is the strategy for which the Republicans have made Ms. Palin the frontwoman: win the White House not on ideas, but by denigrating experience, judgment and qualifications. 
 The idea that Americans want leaders who have none of those things -- who are so blindly certain of what Ms. Palin calls ''the mission'' that they won't even pause for reflection -- shows a contempt for voters and raises frightening questions about how Mr. McCain and Ms. Palin plan to run this country. 
 One of the many bizarre moments in the questioning by ABC News's Charles Gibson was when Ms. Palin, the governor of Alaska, excused her lack of international experience by sneering that Americans don't want ''somebody's big fat resume maybe that shows decades and decades in that Washington establishment where, yes, they've had opportunities to meet heads of state.'' 
 We know we were all supposed to think of Joe Biden. But it sure sounded like a good description of Mr. McCain. Those decades of experience earned the Arizona senator the admiration of people in both parties. They are why he was our preferred candidate in the Republican primaries.
 The interviews made clear why Americans should worry about Ms. Palin's thin resume and lack of experience. Consider her befuddlement when Mr. Gibson referred to President Bush's ''doctrine'' and her remark about having insight into Russia because she can see it from her state.
 But that is not what troubled us most about her remarks -- and, remember, if they were scripted, that just means that they reflect Mr. McCain's views all the more closely. Rather, it was the sense that thoughtfulness, knowledge and experience are handicaps for a president in a world populated by Al Qaeda terrorists, a rising China, epidemics of AIDS, poverty and fratricidal war in the developing world and deep economic distress at home.
 Ms. Palin talked repeatedly about never blinking. When Mr. McCain asked her to run for vice president? ''You have to be wired in a way of being so committed to the mission,'' she said, that ''you can't blink.''
 Fighting terrorism? ''We must do whatever it takes, and we must not blink, Charlie, in making those tough decisions of where we go and even who we target.'' 
 Her answers about why she had told her church that President Bush's failed policy in Iraq was ''God's plan'' did nothing to dispel our concerns about her confusion between faith and policy. Her claim that she was quoting a completely unrelated comment by Lincoln was absurd.
 This nation has suffered through eight years of an ill-prepared and unblinkingly obstinate president. One who didn't pause to think before he started a disastrous war of choice in Iraq. One who blithely looked the other way as the Taliban and Al Qaeda regrouped in Afghanistan. One who obstinately cut taxes and undercut all efforts at regulation, unleashing today's profound economic crisis. 
 In a dangerous world, Americans need a president who knows that real strength requires serious thought and preparation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); AL-QAEDA (60%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JOE BIDEN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



328 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Holds the Whip Hand In Modifying Mortgages

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
For much of the last year, Washington officials have been pressing the mortgage industry to modify home loans and avoid foreclosures. Now, the extraordinary government intervention in Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and a growing number of banks puts federal agencies in the powerful, and awkward, position of deciding which borrowers will receive help and who will lose their home.
 And while the Bush administration is leaving it to the next president to decide how the mortgage finance companies will operate further out, the actions taken by their conservators now will have an immediate influence on the cost to taxpayers -- and to the economy -- of stabilizing the nation's fragile housing market. 
 Regulators are walking a fine line between protecting the government from losses and helping struggling homeowners and the broader economy, according to financial and political analysts. If officials modify too many home loans or the companies suffer high defaults on modified loans, taxpayers will be stuck with an inflated bill. But doing too little might prolong housing market problems.
 ''You are trying to strike the balance between the duty to protect the assets of the organization,'' said Alex J. Pollock, a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, ''and the sensible policy of trying to control the downward momentum of the housing bust.''
 Politics will also play a role as the November presidential election draws closer, not least because the rescue plan engineered by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. defers important decisions about the companies' missions for the next president and Congress. Both presidential campaigns have supported the takeover of the companies, but they differ significantly on what should be done with them in the future.
 For now, the federal budget will not include Fannie's and Freddie's liabilities, the Office of Management and Budget said on Friday. Including the debts on the government's books would have doubled the national debt.
 On Thursday, four Democratic senators called on the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the regulator now in charge of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, to give some breathing room to defaulting borrowers by imposing a three-month moratorium on new foreclosures for loans owned by the companies. The Bush administration opposed calls for a similar moratorium by Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton earlier this year. 
 Mr. Paulson later persuaded some big lenders to give delinquent borrowers an extra month to negotiate modification or repayment plans before seeking foreclosure. As they prepare to go large-scale, regulators have been keeping an eye on how the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which oversees failed banks, does things. The agency has taken several steps to make it easier for struggling borrowers to repay their mortgages and stay in their homes. 
 Last month, it began offering 25,000 customers of IndyMac Bank -- which became one of the largest failed financial institutions in American history -- lower-priced, fixed-rate loans if the borrower could afford to make payments. It offered to trim interest rates on loans to as little as 3 percent in some cases, and gave a number of borrowers up to 40 years for repayment.
 Sheila C. Bair, the chairman, has been one of the most vocal proponents of wide-scale loan modifications since last year, when defaults on mortgages started rising sharply. A spokesman for Ms. Bair, Andrew Gray, said the efforts were still in the early stages, but the F.D.I.C. had been pleased with the results so far.
 But the challenges for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and their regulators are on a different plane. How the Federal Housing Finance Agency decides to approach loan modification will have ripple effects through the economy, because the two companies together own or guarantee nearly half of all loans outstanding. 
 The director of the F.H.F.A., James B. Lockhart, has said he wants the two companies to be ''creative and aggressive'' in modifying loans, but he has not offered or endorsed any specific plans since he took their reins. 
 For the moment, only a small faction of loans controlled by the companies are delinquent or in foreclosure. But defaults have been rising fast, especially among a category of loans known as Alt-A, which are riskier than conventional prime loans. Many of these did not require borrowers to provide proof of their incomes and assets. 
 Before the government seized them, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had already advanced their efforts to modify loans. In July, the companies said they would pay the mortgage servicing companies that deal with borrowers on their behalf a double bonus to help arrange loan modifications. Fannie Mae has also been making personal loans to help borrowers with temporary financial problems catch up with past-due payments.
 The government has, of course, overseen large programs for delinquent mortgages before. In the banking crisis that struck the economy in 1980, the F.D.I.C. and later the Resolution Trust Corporation took over many failed banks and savings and loans. But that is where the comparison ends: most of the problems then were concentrated among a relatively small number of commercial mortgages. It will be harder to deal with millions of home loans, said William M. Isaac, a former chairman of the F.D.I.C.
 ''When I make a judgment about commercial loans,'' Mr. Isaac said, ''it's just a handful of commercial loans.'' He says he believes the government will need to impose general rules and monitor how mortgage companies apply them to borrowers.
 To make matters worse, a large number of mortgages made during the recent housing boom are unsalvageable because borrowers cannot afford even the terms of modified loans. Many of these will default yet again after they are altered, said Bert Ely, a financial consultant who has been critical of the F.D.I.C. modification plan.
 ''If you do a bunch of mass modifications with borrowers who still can't handle the modified loans for any number of reasons, all you have done is rolled the foreclosure into the future,'' Mr. Ely said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., far left, leaving Fannie Mae headquarters in Washington. Any rescue plan would defer some decisions to the next presidential administration.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY MALLIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); HOME PRICES (74%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); TAKEOVERS (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); HISTORY (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (61%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (61%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (61%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HENRY PAULSON (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



329 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2406 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times: September 13th, 2008

 BODY:
international
 CHANNEL TUNNEL CLOSED
 After Overnight Fire
 The Channel Tunnel that links Britain and the Continent was closed after an overnight blaze that reached temperatures as high as 1,800 degrees. The fire, which broke out on Thursday on a France-bound freight train, may have started on one of the trucks it was carrying, safety officials said. PAGE A8
 U.S. AIRSTRIKE IN PAKISTAN KILLS 12
 The intensified American campaign against suspected Al Qaeda and Taliban militants in Pakistan's tribal areas continued. Two missiles fired from remotely piloted American aircraft killed 12 people in an attack on a compound in North Waziristan, according to a local journalist and television reports. The attack struck the home of a local tribesman, Yousaf Khan Wazir, who was among the dead, the journalist said. PAGE A9 
 31 KILLED IN ATTACK NEAR BAGHDAD
 At least 31 people were killed and 60 were wounded in a car bomb attack in the center of the predominately Shiite town of Dujail, north of Baghdad, according to Iraqi police officers in Dujail and in the provincial capital, Tikrit. PAGE A9
 CHINA'S MIGHT USED IN DEAL
 As part of an incentive package to persuade Costa Rica to shift its diplomatic recognition from Taiwan to the People's Republic of China last year, China used the muscle of its enormous foreign exchange reserves, agreeing to buy $300 million in Costa Rican bonds. PAGE A8
 LOAN SIGNALS DISMAY WITH RUSSIA
 The executive board of the Asian Development Bank unanimously approved a $40 million loan to Georgia at the lowest possible interest rate, the latest sign of Asian dissatisfaction with Russian military action in Georgia. PAGE A10
 IN FRANCE, POPE SPEAKS ABOUT FAITH
 In his first visit to France as pope, Benedict XVI touched on central themes of his papacy -- the tensions between faith and reason and church and state, as well as his efforts to reach out to Muslims and Jews -- and urged an increasingly irreligious Europe to look back to its intellectual roots in Christian monastic culture. PAGE A8
 CHINA EXAMINES INFANT FORMULA
 China's Health Ministry announced a nationwide inquiry into the safety of all infant formulas, as a team of investigators from six government agencies descended on the milk powder factory that produced formula now linked to one baby's death and kidney problems in at least 50 more. PAGE A10 
 Russia's Stock Market Slump Persists A10 
 Power in Zimbabwe Deal Is Unclear A6 
 NATIONAL
 STUBBORN BUNCH
 Rides Out Storm in Galveston
 As the storm surge from Hurricane Ike began battering the island of Galveston and officials warned that ''certain death'' awaited anyone who failed to evacuate, a reckless and stubborn bunch ignored the warnings. ''We never punked out before. Why start now?'' said the owner of the Poop Deck, a biker bar just stumbling distance from the waterfront. PAGE A15 
 SUBPOENA FOR TODD PALIN APPROVED
 Alaska lawmakers voted to issue a subpoena to Todd Palin, the husband of Gov. Sarah Palin, in an escalation of the inquiry into whether Ms. Palin improperly tried to get her former brother-in-law fired from his job as a state trooper. The subpoena was one of 14 approved by the State Senate Judiciary Committee, setting the stage for a potential legal clash between the Legislature and the Palin administration. PAGE A12 
 PLAN TO EXPAND F.B.I. TOOLS
 The Justice Department made public a plan to expand the tools the Federal Bureau of Investigation can use to investigate suspicions of terrorism inside the United States, even without any direct evidence of wrongdoing. It would, for instance, allow an F.B.I. agent to pursue an anonymous tip about possible terrorism by conducting an undercover interview or watching someone in a public place. Such investigative steps are now prohibited unless there is more specific evidence of wrongdoing. PAGE A11 
 Anthrax Suspect's Last Wishes A11
 Biden Son Resigns as Lobbyist A13
 OBITUARIES
 RALPH PLAISTED, 80
 An insurance man by profession, he was probably the first man to reach the North Pole when he crossed the polar ice cap by snowmobile in 1968. PAGE B5 
 ALAIN JACQUET, 69
 A French artist known for his playful modernizations of old master paintings, he was associated with Pop Art and the minimovement known as Mec Art (for mechanical art), making use of mechanical processes and advertising cliches in photoscreened works like his ''Dejeuner sur l'Herbe'' series. PAGE B5 
 HELEN GALLAND, 83
 One of the few women of her time to run a fashion-oriented retailer, she began her career as a sales assistant at Lord & Taylor and presided over the Bonwit Teller chain from 1980 to 1983. She is credited with having restored some of the store's luster at a time when the company had undergone a decline in its image. PAGE B5 
 metro 
 IMAGES OF BROADWAY'S GOLDEN AGE
 Are Veiled in Dispute With Library
 Thousands of famous images by the theater photographer Leo Friedman -- young lovers holding hands on a street of tenements in ''West Side Story,'' Rex Harrison looking over a shabby Julie Andrews in ''My Fair Lady,'' Robert Preston conducting his make-believe trombones in ''The Music Man'' -- are in limbo, caught in a dispute between the photographer and the New York Public Library's performing arts collection at Lincoln Center, where the pictures were sent in 1971. PAGE B3 
 WALL STREET GROWS SHAKIER
 Early last year, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Senator Charles E. Schumer sounded the alarm that New York City was in danger of losing its status as the world's pre-eminent financial hub to London. Now that Lehman Brothers is on the verge of following Bear Stearns onto the casualty list of major investment firms, officials and economists are worrying even more, saying that the city's days as the clear leader of global finance may be ending. PAGE B1 
 SPORTS
 A STRONG ARM AND A STRONG MIND
 In U.S.C.'s Starting Quarterback
 When Mark Sanchez took batting practice as a teenager, his father would quiz him on the periodic table. And when he would drop back to pass a football, he would also have to know who the 13th president was. (Answer: Millard Fillmore.) If Sanchez did not understand then the demands his father placed on him, he does now. He is the starting quarterback for U.S.C.'s top-ranked Trojans. PAGE D3 
 THE CAN'T-MISS PROSPECT WHO DID
 The player who was supposed to redefine the linebacker position in the N.F.L. now plays fantasy football. The player who created so much hysteria at Ohio State that people waited outside his shower for autographs now solicits clients for his personal training studio. And the player who was stigmatized by Sports Illustrated, which called him the consummate dumb jock of the 1990s, is back in college pursuing his degree. It is indeed strange how things turned out for Andy Katzenmoyer. PAGE D1 
 THE LESSONS OF A METS COLLAPSE
 Last year, a heady streak that saw the Mets win seven of nine games set the team up for one of the greatest falls in baseball history. This year's team, with its comparatively slim lead, will prosper where last year's team stumbled precisely because of the 2007 swoon. They were humbled and shocked. And this is what gives this Mets something they may have lacked last season: collective mettle. William C. Rhoden, Sports of the Times. PAGE D1 
 BUSINESS
 POLICYMAKERS TO DETERMINE
 Who Will Lose Homes
 The government intervention in Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and a growing number of banks puts federal agencies in the powerful, and awkward, position of deciding which borrowers will receive help and which will lose their homes. And while the Bush administration is leaving it to the next president to decide how the mortgage finance companies will operate further out, the actions taken by their conservators will have an immediate influence on the cost of stabilizing the nation's housing market. PAGE C1
 THE LATEST SIGN OF A SLOWDOWN
 News on the economy was mixed, with the price index for finished goods falling 0.9 percent in August and consumer spending on retail and food decreasing 0.3 percent, according to the Census Bureau. ''It's a ray of hope on the inflationary front, but dark clouds on the horizon for consumers,'' the chief economist at Merk Mutual Funds said. PAGE C4 
 BRITISH TOUR OPERATOR SHUTS DOWN
 Britain's already struggling travel industry suffered a series of setbacks when a large tour operator collapsed, British Airways offered thousands of managers a buyout and Richard Branson of Virgin Atlantic said he would fight ''tooth and nail'' to prevent a combination of British Airways with American Airlines. PAGE C3 
 STRONG RETURNS FOR HARVARD
 The endowment of Harvard University, among the most closely watched in the country, said it had earned 8.6 percent in its fiscal year ending June 30. That return brought the value of the foundation to $36.9 billion. Harvard said it had outperformed its internal benchmark and that its returns put it in the fifth percentile of the 165 large institutional funds measured by the Trust Universe Comparison Services. PAGE C3 
 ALITALIA RESCUE PLAN NEAR COLLAPSE
 The future of Alitalia, the financially troubled Italian airline, hung in the balance as its unions and an Italian investor group suspended talks over a bailout of the flagship carrier, with the unions citing ''insurmountable difficulties.'' With Alitalia losing more than a million euros, or $1.4 million, a day, the rescue plan from the investor group, known as CAI, is the only option on the table. PAGE C2 
 DEUTSCHE BANK STAKE IN POSTBANK
 Deutsche Post agreed to sell about 30 percent of Postbank to Deutsche Bank in a deal worth 2.8 billion euros. Deutsche Bank, which is heavily dependent on volatile investment banking fees, will be able to sell its real estate and investment services through Postbank's retail network. The transaction, worth $3.9 billion, marks a further unwinding of what was once a mammoth German state monopoly that delivered letters, connected telephone calls and provided basic banking services. PAGE C3 
 Pressure to Spend on 'Special Days' C5 
 Arts
 A CENTURY LATER, A LITERARY REPUTATION ON THE RISE
 When the novelist Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis died 100 years ago this month, his passing went little noticed outside his native Brazil. But in recent years he has been transformed from a fringe figure in the English-speaking world to a literary favorite and trend setter, promoted by much more acclaimed writers and by critics as an unjustly neglected genius. Susan Sontag, an early and ardent admirer, once called him ''the greatest writer ever produced in Latin America,'' surpassing even Borges. PAGE B9 
 A TRAILBLAZER HEADS TO DALLAS
 In his position as executive director of the Miller Theater at Columbia University, George Steel has turned the place into a hotbed of adventurous programming, and made the Miller an exemplar of audience outreach and dynamic commitment to contemporary music. Mr. Steel's admirers were baffled when the news came that he was leaving the Miller Theater to become the general director of the Dallas Opera. The Dallas Opera? Talk about conventional programming. But in a recent interview he sounded like someone who intended to shake things up in Dallas, Anthony Tommasini writes. PAGE B11 
 SONGS ARE JUST PART OF THE PACKAGE
 A few songs into his set at B. B. King Blues Club & Grill, Wayne Brady, best known as a comedian and television host, decided that he needed to do something, he said, ''to address the people that are saying, 'Do something funny.' '' Up to that point no such request had been made, but that mattered little. Maybe it was an acknowledgment of the obvious: while Mr. Brady is an able vocalist, his singing works best as part of a broader package, where less is at stake, Jon Caramanica writes. PAGE B12 
 this weekend
 BOOK REVIEW
 Chuck Knoll won more Super Bowls with the Steelers; Bill Belichick has as many (and counting?) with the Patriots. But Bill Walsh of the 49ers is the subject of ''The Genius,'' with a subtitle that credits him with reinventing football. In his review, Gregory Cowles calls it ''a sports biography that is thorough, diligent, generous and honest.'' Need more? PAGE 20
 TRAVEL
 Purists (or survivalists) may scoff at the idea, but ''glamping'' -- the new term for upscale, or glamorous, camping -- could be ideal for those who want an outdoor experience without the outdoor fuss. ''We call it nature on a silver plate,'' one resort manager said. PAGE 4
 ARTS & LEISURE
 It was known as the ''Dakota Fanning rape movie'' at the Sundance Film Festival in 2007, got boos at a press screening and eviscerating reviews (Manohla Dargis called it ''overinflated rubbish''). But the film, actually titled ''Hounddog'' and with a radically different cut, will make it into 22 theaters across the country on Sept. 19. PAGE 15
 Editorial
 GOVERNOR PALIN'S WORLDVIEW
 As we watched Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, the Republican vice presidential candidate, on TV the last couple of days, we kept wondering what on earth John McCain was thinking. page A18
 EUROPE'S PROBLEM
 Russia cannot be allowed to redraw Georgia's borders by force. Until the Europeans stand together -- and with the United States -- against Moscow's bullying, Russia's leaders will feel little pressure to change their behavior. page A18
 THE SPIRIT OF PUBLIC SERVICE
 At a forum at Columbia University, John McCain and Barack Obama took a break from their increasingly harsh presidential contest to speak with genuine passion about a worthy cause that they both share: engaging more Americans in national service. page A18
 op-ed
 BOB HERBERT
 Gov. Sarah Palin's stumbling effort in the nationally televised interview showed just how reckless a choice she is for vice president. page A19
 GAIL COLLINS
 Though only on the Republican ticket a few weeks, Gov. Sarah Palin is already a totally different person. Did you see her being interviewed by Charlie Gibson, trying to slither away from saying anything controversial about foreign policy, rewriting her own history whenever it suited her? page A19
 HEAD GAMES
 The best way to tell if an athlete has had adequate rest after a concussion is to administer neuropsychological tests and compare the results with those from tests given before the injury. But, too often, injured athletes have not had the baseline tests, writes Gerald Tramontano in an Op-Ed essay. page A19

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); RELIGION (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); INFANT FORMULA (85%); FIRES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); AL-QAEDA (76%); TALIBAN (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); HURRICANES (65%); JEWS & JUDAISM (63%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (63%); DRY & CONDENSED DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (60%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%); TRAINS (57%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (66%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) CHINA (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); TAIWAN (92%); FRANCE (92%); IRAQ (91%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



330 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: British Travel Industry Dealt Several New Blows

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Britain's already struggling travel industry suffered a series of setbacks on Friday when a large tour operator collapsed, British Airways offered thousands of managers a buyout and Richard Branson of Virgin Atlantic said he would fight ''tooth and nail'' to prevent a combination of British Airways with American Airlines.
 More than 89,000 people were stranded abroad, mainly in Orlando, Fla., and the Caribbean, when the XL Leisure Group, a tour operator, ran out of money and had to ground its airplanes. Another 200,000 people had bookings with XL, which fell victim to higher fuel prices and slower economic growth. XL, which employs about 1,700 people, is based in Crawley, England, and serves 50 destinations. 
 A spokeswoman did not know how many planes were grounded but said it was the entire fleet. 
 The Civil Aviation Authority said about 10,000 of the stranded passengers would have to find and pay for their flights back home because they booked flights directly with the company and are thus not eligible for any compensation. The rest, who booked package holidays or flights through another tour operator, will be flown home at no extra cost because they are covered by the Air Travel Organizers' Licensing compensation plan.
 XL joined about 24 other airlines and tour operators that went out of business this year, according to the International Air Transport Association. Zoom Airlines, a trans-Atlantic carrier based in Ottawa and at Gatwick airport in London, filed for bankruptcy protection last month. Eos Airlines, a business-class-only carrier, stopped flying in April. 
 Oil prices, which peaked in July, have hovered near $100 a barrel in recent days, but the decline has not been enough to ease pressure on the airline industry as consumers seek to cut costs amid a slowing economy.
 ''The summer season is usually the good part of the year for the industry and now this is coming to an end and the outlook is not encouraging,'' said Douglas McNeill, an analyst at the stockbroker Blue Oar Securities, in London. ''The oil price is still high and the situation is very challenging.''
 Commercial airlines, including British Airways and Virgin, were in talks with the Civil Aviation Authority to help fly some of XL's stranded passengers back to Britain but those airlines are facing their own difficulties. 
 British Airways, which has more than 45,000 employees, said Friday that it would offer about 2,000 managers incentives to quit as the airline seeks to reduce its employee costs. The airline chief executive, Willie Walsh, told Bloomberg Television that he expected 300 managers to take the buyout. 
 ''We are in the worst trading environment the industry has ever faced and must take action to offset the combined effects of the continuing global economic downturn, weakened consumer confidence and high fuel prices,'' British Airways said in a statement.
 British Airways announced plans last month to enter into a revenue-sharing venture with American Airlines and Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana of Spain on flights between Europe and North America. The combination, British Airways said, would give customers access to better fares and frequent-flier miles but the plan is being examined by regulators concerned about antitrust violations.
 Mr. Branson, Virgin Atlantic's president, said on Friday that he was determined to stop the revenue-sharing venture, which he said would create a ''dominant market player'' and hurt customers as much as rivals. Mr. Branson plans to spend ''millions of dollars'' on a campaign to block the combination, which includes painting ''No Way BA/AA'' onto every Virgin aircraft, buying advertising space and hiring lobbyists. 
 ''The economic downturn is no excuse for authorities to allow that combination,'' Mr. Branson said at a news conference at London's Heathrow airport. ''They are both strong and don't have financial problems, and even if they did, an unfair market place must not be created. We'll fight tooth and nail to prevent that merger.'' 
 It would be the third such campaign for Mr. Branson, who opposed two earlier failed efforts -- one in 1997 and another in 2001 -- by British Airways and American Airlines to combine.
 Yet, some analysts said that consolidation might be the only way forward for many airline operators and that more airlines could go out of business, especially smaller ones unable to pass on the higher costs to its customers. 
 ''There are still more than 100 airlines in Europe and it's getting more difficult for an increasing number of them,'' an analyst at Panmure Gordon in London, Gert Zonneveld, said. ''We'll certainly see more trouble in the industry before the end of the year.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Passengers whose flights were canceled after the collapse of a British package holiday operator, the XL Leisure Group, waited Friday at the airport in Tenerife in the Canary Islands of Spain.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SANTIAGO FERRERO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TOUR PACKAGES (90%); TOUR OPERATORS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%)

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (91%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (72%); WILLIE WALSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANARY ISLANDS (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); SPAIN (74%); ENGLAND (59%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



331 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: As Financial Empires Shake, City Feels No. 2 on Its Heels

BYLINE: By PATRICK MCGEEHAN

 BODY:
Early last year, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Senator Charles E. Schumer sounded the alarm that New York City was in danger of losing its status as the world's pre-eminent financial hub to London. And that was before one of the biggest investment banks on Wall Street, Bear Stearns, collapsed and a second, Lehman Brothers, teetered on the brink of failure.
 Now New York City officials and economists are worrying even more about the future of the city's financial sector. New York City will surely remain a leading center of global finance when the current crisis is over, they say, but its days as the clear leader may be ending.
 ''This is the worst financial-services crisis of our lifetime,'' and Wall Street is its epicenter, said Robert N. Sloan, who heads the financial-services executive recruiting practice at Egon Zehnder International in Manhattan. ''You have major firms that have imploded or are at risk of imploding. It is a deconstruction -- and a reconstruction to follow -- of the financial-services industry as we know it.'' 
 Many analysts point out that the resources of big financial companies were migrating toward London well before the current crisis. The banks reoriented themselves to capitalize on the rapid growth in Asia, ''which left London as really the springboard to conducting business looking east,'' Mr. Sloan said.
 London's ascendance threatens more than egos and bragging rights. Wall Street is widely regarded as the most important sector of New York's economy. While it is not the biggest employer, it has provided about one-fourth of all the personal income earned in the city in recent years and about 10 percent of the city's tax revenue. 
 Lehman Brothers alone could be the source of as much as $100 million in annual income tax in the city, estimated Marcia Van Wagner, a deputy city comptroller.
 The rivalry became more heated after 2005, when companies making their first sale of stock raised more money in London than in New York. Although that shift may have been only temporary, it spurred American officials to call for regulatory changes to make Wall Street more attractive to foreign companies seeking to raise money.
 Mayor Bloomberg and Senator Schumer used a study conducted at their direction by McKinsey & Company, a consulting firm, to argue that ''if we do nothing within 10 years, while we will remain a leading regional financial center, we will no longer be the financial capital of the world.'' 
 In a report issued this week, the World Economic Forum also ranked the United States just barely ahead of Britain in an assessment of global financial development. The report ranked the United States first for the size and efficiency of its banks but second to Britain when it came to investment banks, brokerage firms and other financial companies.
 Nouriel Roubini, a professor of economics at New York University who was one of the study's authors, said the two countries were quite similar in their strengths and weaknesses. Both, he said, are suffering in the current crisis and may deserve even lower marks for financial stability when it is over.
 ''This is a very severe economic and financial crisis where hundreds of banks are going to go bust,'' Mr. Roubini said, adding that the damage would not be confined to the United States. ''Swiss banks like UBS have lost as much as Citigroup,'' he said.
 Facing its biggest quarterly loss ever, Lehman, one of the six largest firms on Wall Street, said on Wednesday that it would unload many of its assets and shrink significantly. The firm, which employed more than 28,000 people at the start of this year, has lost about 95 percent of its stock-market value in less than two years.
 Lehman's throes, coming just half a year after Bear Stearns collapsed suddenly, rattled city officials who already were concerned about the depth and breadth of the damage on Wall Street. This year, banks and brokerage firms have announced 83,000 job cuts worldwide, and most of those were in New York. 
 ''There's going to be a lot of realignment of the financial sector, and this is just the beginning of it,'' Ms. Van Wagner said. ''We certainly seem to be going in the direction of fewer firms. It could be a smaller industry.''
 But how much of New York's loss will be London's gain -- or Hong Kong's or Dubai's -- is a sensitive topic with the city's officials and business leaders these days.
 Foreign investors may shy away from investing in American companies and American markets, said Kathryn S. Wylde, the chief executive of the Partnership for New York City, an association of large employers. She was quick to add that global financial markets were linked and that the big Wall Street firms were also some of the biggest in other countries.
 ''It's important to remember that Lehman is a London firm as well,'' Ms. Wylde said. ''This stuff hurts London just like it hurts New York.''
 It is true that like the United States, Britain is suffering through a housing slump that has hurt its market for mortgages and other forms of debt, but New York firms pioneered and dominated the sales and trading of bundles of risky mortgages. The report Mayor Bloomberg and Senator Schumer released last year cited Wall Street's dominance of the market for subprime loans as one that European banks could cut into by adopting ''U.S.-style'' lending practices.
 Now, that subprime market is often called the sickest segment of the American financial market, and is a major cause of the current crisis.
 London, on the other hand, has become a much bigger magnet for the sales and trading of various types of derivatives, securities that companies buy or sell to hedge against certain risks, such as fluctuations of interest rates or currencies. Some of those lines of business have remained profitable through the recent bond-market crisis. 
 And that has potentially strengthened London's hand in its rivalry with New York: Indeed, the biggest Wall Street firms have moved entire derivatives-trading operations to London in the last several years.
 Still, some city officials were loath to accept that Wall Street's influence might be diminished by the disappearance or drastic downsizing of some of its most prominent firms, like Lehman.
 Seth W. Pinsky, the president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said that city officials would do what they could to help Lehman but that the firm was grappling with some issues that were ''outside of the scope and authority of the city government.'' 
 He said he was unaware of any discussions between Lehman executives and city or state officials about what might be done to prevent a complete collapse of the firm. (On Friday, Lehman was courting buyers as its stock continued to fall.)
 Mr. Pinsky said he would not speculate about Lehman's prospects but added that after past periods of upheaval on Wall Street, new firms had emerged to replace those that did not survive. ''New York remains the world's financial capital, and we think the financial institutions in the city are sufficiently broad and deep that once we emerge from the current environment that New York will still be in the same position,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: London may supplant New York as the world's pre-eminent financial capital. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); CITIES (89%); RANKINGS (86%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); INCOME TAX (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (91%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (80%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (80%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (80%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%); CHARLES SCHUMER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



332 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Do Voters Want Passion, Policy or Both?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''From the Gut,'' by Thomas L. Friedman (column, Sept. 10), hits the nail on the head. 
 First, Barack Obama's campaign allowed John McCain's campaign to co-opt the message of change that had captured the hearts and minds of his early supporters.
 Now it seems that Mr. Obama has fallen into the trap that snared Al Gore and John Kerry: In an effort to rise above the fray and avoid the mud-slinging of their opponents they sacrificed the passion and warmth that voters do connect to viscerally. 
 Somehow, Mr. Obama has to regain the passion, but avoid succumbing to the nastiness of his opponents.
 Mary Ellen Hoffman Santa Barbara, Calif., Sept. 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman quotes John Maxwell, a leadership expert, as saying about Sarah Palin, ''I think there are a lot of women out there that look at her, holding her baby, talking about being a hockey mom, and say, 'She knows what I feel; she's going through what I am going through.' ''
 The question for them is: ''Am I ready to be vice president of the United States?''
 Donna Davis New York, Sept. 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The reason issues are not at the forefront of campaigns is that the people who care deeply about issues have already decided whom they will vote for. The undecided swing voters, the ones who decide the election, vote based on how they feel about the candidates' character.
 Thomas L. Friedman suggests that Barack Obama ''has to be more passionate about his own ideas.'' Mr. Obama also needs to take a page from the Republican playbook and attack his opponents' strength. Make this election a debate on the temperament of a leader. 
 John McCain's strength is his self-proclaimed maverick persona. And I have a feeling about John McCain the maverick. My gut says we don't need another cowboy in the White House.
 Jeff Thrasher Stamford, Conn., Sept. 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Sick to my stomach is how I felt after reading ''From the Gut,'' by Thomas L. Friedman, and that's because it is so true.
 I am an over-50, white, college-educated woman who will probably have to work until I drop because I have not achieved the economic security my parents had at my age, nor do I think I ever will. 
 Where are you, Barack Obama? What happened to your pledge to rise above partisan politics and not demean your opponents? You need to listen to women like me. Otherwise you are going to lose, but the real loser will be this country in more ways than my gut can handle.
 Sherry Kirschenbaum West Orange, N.J., Sept. 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Didn't someone once say that the definition of stupidity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting a different result? 
 Dwight D. Eisenhower, Richard M. Nixon, Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush beat a sad sequence of cerebral Democrats who offered mostly boring policy speeches. The only Democrat who figured it out was a charming rascal from Arkansas.
 Democrats lose when they offer dense proposals in complicated language. On some enchanted day, they might actually win if they make the kind of visceral appeals on safety, money and personal values that carry Republicans to victory.
 Eric De Jonge Chevy Chase, Md., Sept. 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (75%); WOMEN (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); SARAH PALIN (57%); AL GORE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



333 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: British Premier Faces Leadership Challenge From Ally

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain, wrestling with an economic downturn and political woes, faced a new challenge on Friday when a member of his government called for a leadership election in the governing Labor Party. 
 The member, Siobhain McDonagh, said a leadership election was needed to debate the direction of the party after 11 years in power. Ms. McDonagh is one of the party managers responsible for making sure that Labor members toe the government line in parliamentary votes. 
 Mr. Brown responded quickly by taking away Ms. McDonagh's government post. She remains a member of Parliament.
 Mr. Brown took over as prime minister from Tony Blair less than 15 months ago, and he has faced growing disenchantment over his leadership as the credit crunch has hit the economy while rising energy and food prices squeeze families' budgets.
 Ms. McDonagh's remarks represented the first time that a member of the government, even a junior one, had publicly called for a leadership contest.
 ''I think we need a leadership election,'' she told the BBC. ''I think anybody who wants to stand should stand, and we should have a discussion about what direction should the party be going in.''
 The call came at a crucial time, a little more than a week before the Labor Party gathers for the its annual conference in Manchester. Mr. Brown's leadership could come under fire during the event.
 Ms. McDonagh and several other Labor legislators asked for papers that are needed to start a leadership contest, a Labor Party official said.
 That suggests that the prime minister could face a challenge to his leadership at the Labor conference, although the support of about 70 Labor lawmakers is required as the first step to setting off a contest.
 Ms. McDonagh said that she had nobody in mind as a possible alternative leader to Mr. Brown, but that there was a need to ''clear the air.''
 While not openly criticizing Mr. Brown, she implied dissatisfaction with his leadership. 
 ''I think Gordon Brown is a really good man who has the best of intentions,'' Ms. McDonagh said. ''I just think that being prime minister is a shockingly hard job.''
 In 11 years in Parliament, Ms. McDonagh said, she had never voted against the government. Nonetheless, she said she thought a ''huge number'' of Labor legislators wanted a leadership election.
 A year ago, Mr. Brown led in public opinion surveys, but as Britain's economic woes have mounted, the Labor Party has slumped. It now trails the opposition Conservative Party by about 20 points in many polls. Mr. Brown does not have to call a general election until mid-2010.
 The Conservatives urged an early general election on Friday, saying that Ms. McDonagh's call for a leadership election showed that the Labor Party was degenerating into deeply divided factions.
 ''At a time when Britain faces massive economic challenges, it is profoundly damaging to have a government in such disarray,'' said a Conservative politician, Chris Grayling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); FOOD PRICES (54%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (90%); TONY BLAIR (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (58%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (54%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (54%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); ENGLAND (58%); UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2008



334 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: The Return of the Misery Index

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IT has been almost three decades since the term ''misery index'' gained political currency, as President Jimmy Carter confronted the twin problems of rising inflation and unemployment. Now that almost-forgotten index is rising more rapidly than at any time since Mr. Carter's last year in office -- 1980.
 The index is the sum of the unemployment rate and the inflation rate over the preceding 12 months. In normal times, the two indexes are likely to move in different directions, with inflation easing when unemployment rises, and climbing as the economy gets stronger and unemployment ebbs. 
 This year, however, both have been rising.
 On Tuesday, the Labor Department will report on the inflation rate, as measured by the Consumer Price Index, for August. The consensus forecast of economists, according to Bloomberg News, is for a 5.6 percent rate. With the unemployment rate already reported at 6.1 percent, that would produce a misery index of 11.7 percent, up from July's figure of 11.2 percent.
 That rate has been rising rapidly, and in July was up 4.2 percentage points from a year earlier. If the consensus forecast is accurate, the August year-over-year rise will be 5.1 percentage points.
 Before the Bush administration, there were only three presidential terms in which the misery index rose at least 4 percentage points over a 12-month span. The first was in 1949-53, and the second in 1973-77. In each case, the incumbent party lost the following election.
 The third was President Carter's term, from 1977 to 1981, when the combination of soaring oil prices and recession caused the misery index to peak at 21.9 percent. Ronald Reagan famously asked voters, ''Are you better off than you were four years ago?'' and defeated President Carter.
 Concerns about the economy take on varying levels of importance in differing elections, of course. But when the misery index seems to be sending a strong signal, it has a good forecasting record.
 We looked at the change in the misery index through August of each presidential election year. If the index had declined both over the preceding four years and over the most recent 12 months, that could be taken as a sign that the economy had improved in both the short and the long term. The reverse was true if the index had risen over both periods.
 During the last 13 presidential election campaigns, from 1956 through 2004, both the short- and long-term changes in the misery index showed the economy was improving in four campaigns -- 1964, 1984, 1988 and 1996 -- and both short- and long-term changes showed the economy was worsening in four others --1960, 1968, 1980 and 1992. The incumbents held on when the signal was positive and lost when it was negative.
 In the other five elections, the signals were mixed. In those years, the White House changed hands twice and was held by the incumbent party three times.
 This year both the short- and long-term signals will be negative, which would seem to favor the Democrats. But there is one major difference this time. In all the elections in which the index forecast the outcome, the incumbent party nominated the sitting president or vice president.
 This year, it was Senator John McCain, the Republican nominee, who ran a commercial saying that people were worse off than four years ago, and promised to bring changes. ''On the face of it,'' said Robert Barbera, the chief economist of ITG and the man who suggested I look at the misery index, ''both candidates are running against the incumbent party.''
 That has frustrated the Democrats, who no doubt will do their best to tie Senator McCain to the record of President Bush.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Misery Index: Misery index: (sum of unemployment rate and inflation rate)(Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics via Haver Analytics, Bloomberg News) Chart details line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLATION (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2008



335 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Are We Experienced The Presidency, Writ Small

BYLINE: By GEORGE B. FITCH

 BODY:
Whether you are the president of 300 million people with a staff of more than two million and a budget of $3 trillion or the mayor of a small town of 8,000 with a staff of 100 and a budget of $12 million, your responsibilities and the skills you need are essentially the same. 
 Public safety, budgets, taxes, economic growth, job creation, even energy security are local responsibilities. ''The health, safety and welfare of the citizens'' are expressly stated in our Town Code in Warrenton, Va. That covers a lot of areas. 
 As the chief law enforcement officer, I am ultimately responsible for the crime rate; the response time of fire and rescue services; and if there's a natural disaster, declaring a state of emergency. 
 I have to ensure our community has adequate water, setting aside supplies for droughts; I can also withhold access to water from development projects that would lead to runaway sprawl. 
 I have prepared budgets that set rates for business and personal property taxes and even reduced real estate taxes by 75 percent. And unlike the federal budget, mine has to be balanced. 
 I must keep our local economy moving forward and even determine what the engine of that economy will be. (We've opted for tourism over industrial parks and strip malls.) I also need to find ways to make this community more energy independent. (We're turning our trash into renewable energy.)
 And none of this can be done by fiat. Everything I do requires the cooperation of the Town Council, a body that includes electricians and bartenders and high-ranking federal officials, all with different priorities and constituencies. As mayor, you learn to balance the needs of these competing interests, and to compromise. 
 Towns and villages remain the best classroom for national leadership. Mayors have a direct impact, we hope for the better, on the daily lives of those we serve. And though we may never look into a teleprompter and address the nation or even a large crowd, we speak to real Americans every day at the grocery store or on the street corner about the issues that matter most.
 -- GEORGE B. FITCH, the mayor of Warrenton, Va.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); TAX LAW (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); CRIME RATES (75%); DISASTER RELIEF (74%); DROUGHT (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (68%); RETAILERS (65%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



336 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: A Wall Street Goliath Teeters Amid Fears of a Widening Crisis

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ; Jenny Anderson contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Fearing that Lehman Brothers is only days away from collapse, government officials and senior Wall Street executives met on Saturday to try to arrest a downward spiral that might imperil other financial institutions.
 For a second day, the group convened at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in Lower Manhattan, but the situation remained fluid, and the talks were set to resume on Sunday morning .
 Adding urgency to the meeting were growing concerns that other big financial institutions like the insurance giant American International Group and the nation's largest brokerage firm, Merrill Lynch, might face a similar crisis and also need billions of dollars in capital to strengthen their businesses. The group discussed the financial condition of other firms beyond Lehman and the overall state of the markets.
 The spreading troubles were the latest sign that even the government's extraordinary interventions into private enterprise during the last year have not been enough to halt the unraveling of storied companies that were widely viewed as unassailable until recently. 
 In fact, Lehman and other companies have said for months that they had a handle on their troubled assets tied to real estate. But their share prices have continued to sink. As a result, many investors are no longer sure what these financial companies are worth, and they do not want to invest in them until they do. At the same time, many hedge fund managers and other traders have profited handsomely from bets that these stocks would fall in value. 
 Companies that took the biggest risks and used debt aggressively to build their businesses were the first to stumble as the credit market began to sink, and now healthier companies are coming under pressure. Loans that were considered far better than the subprime mortgages, which kicked off the panic, turned out to be only marginally safer.
 ''You have to think of this like there is an epidemic going on -- an epidemic of capital destruction,'' said James L. Melcher, president of the hedge fund Balestra Capital, who has been bearish on the stock market.
 The federal government has taken an unusually activist role in the ongoing crisis. This spring, the Federal Reserve arranged a hasty rescue of Bear Stearns, the wobbly investment bank. Then last week, federal regulators took over the country's two largest mortgage finance companies. 
 At every turn, officials hoped that they had done what was needed to restore confidence in the markets, only to be greeted with another crisis.
 Policy makers have signaled that they are not willing to provide financial support for a takeover of Lehman, as they did with Bear Stearns. Unlike Bear Stearns, which lost many clients and its access to money markets in just a few days, Lehman has been able to finance its business, especially after investment banks were allowed to borrow directly from the Fed. But the quality of the securities it owns are still in question.
 The Fed and Treasury continue to insist that Wall Street firms find a way to rescue Lehman because their own companies might be next. But the Lehman crisis comes at a time when many of them are also short on capital. Entities that do have cash ready to invest, namely private equity firms, are not at the table. 
 That is because regulators do not want those firms, which borrow money to buy companies, controlling major financial institutions that provide the financing for their acquisitions. Many foreign investors, for their part, are reluctant to buy now after having seen earlier investments drop sharply in value.
 The decision by policy makers sets up a crucial test for the financial system: Can the market resolve the panic by pairing Lehman with a willing and strong suitor, or will the company be forced to liquidate?
 Whatever the outcome, there is a growing consensus on Wall Street that the government may not be able to save every big firm whose failure would pose a risk to the system.
 ''The too-big-to-fail mantra or concept or government policy is, in my opinion, off the table and we have to deal with that,'' said David H. Ellison, president and chief investment officer at FBR Funds, a mutual fund company. ''They are not going to save these companies.''
 Analysts say many financial companies, including the insurer A.I.G., need to raise capital. But every time their stock prices fall, raising capital becomes harder. And when that happens, bondholders and credit rating companies start worrying too. Stock prices fall even further -- and the whole cycle repeats again.
 On Friday afternoon, for example, Standard & Poor's warned that it might lower A.I.G.'s credit rating because the drop in the company's share price -- 45.7 percent last week alone -- could make it even harder for the company to raise capital.
 That partly explains why markets in general, and financial shares in particular, are gyrating ever more wildly. Even after the Bush administration took control of the mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac last week, a step many thought might calm investors, trading remained volatile.
 ''Investors are like hyperactive first graders playing musical chairs,'' said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's Equity Research.
 The government, for all its activism, has been unable to stabilize the markets for long -- though policy makers would argue that their interventions have prevented failures from cascading through the financial system.
 After the Federal Reserve arranged the emergency sale of Bear Stearns to JPMorgan Chase in March, the stock market rallied and many strategists and executives on Wall Street declared that the deal was a turning point.
 Stocks also rallied on Monday after the Treasury Department and federal regulators took over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, only to sink the next day as investors grew more concerned about Lehman, A.I.G. and Washington Mutual, the nation's biggest savings and loan. 
 Downturns are typically more volatile than the booms that precede them, strategists say. Investors try to anticipate the recovery, though the actual turning point is often visible only in hindsight. But after a lot of bad news, some investors usually dive in, believing that the markets have reached a cathartic, cleansing moment. 
 ''There are lots of investors that don't want to miss the absolute bottom,'' said Allen Sinai, a former chief economist at Lehman Brothers who now has his own research firm, Decision Economics. ''Unless you are a professional trader, and even then, it's a very dangerous philosophy.'' 
 Many of the fundamental forces in the economy remain worrying. Home prices are still falling, though their rate of decline appears to have slowed in recent months. Defaults on all kinds of loans are rising. In the broader economy, the unemployment rate is rising and consumer spending has been faltering.
 The losses created by rising defaults have impaired the ability and confidence of banks to lend to one another and to consumers. As financial institutions rein in risk-taking to protect themselves and preserve their dwindling capital, interest rates go up, lending standards tighten and credit lines are capped or severed.
 ''Every time there is another problem, it causes lenders to become that much more conservative, which then puts the squeeze on someone else,'' said David A. Levy, the chairman of the Jerome Levy Forecasting Center, a research firm in Mount Kisco, N.Y.
 Many analysts believe that for the downward spiral to be broken, home prices must fall to a level that can be supported by factors like household income that have traditionally had a strong relationship to prices. Also, the government has to determine how it will restructure Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which own or guarantee half of the nation's home loans, said Thomas F. Cooley dean of the Stern School of Business at New York University.
 ''We have to hit the bottom in housing prices,'' he said, ''and we have to just sort out how housing will be financed in future.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Investors on the New York Stock Exchange, where Lehman Brothers is traded, were leery of banks and insurers last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATE GLICKSBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A28) CHART: Worries of Default Soar Again: An index of credit default swaps, a kind of insurance against default, shows growing skepticism about 15 major banks and securities firms. Insuring $10 million of their corporate bonds for five years against default would have cost $215,170 Friday
 in March it had soared to more than $250,000. (Source: Credit Derivatives Research)(A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); TAKEOVERS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (71%); INSURANCE (70%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (65%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (72%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



337 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; DANCE; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1564 words

HEADLINE: A Choreographer Gives His Dream An Idaho Address

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA LA ROCCO

DATELINE: Boise, Idaho 

 BODY:
 IN 1933, fresh off a trans-Atlantic crossing, George Balanchine took one look at Hartford, which an important benefactor was pushing as the site for the projected School of American Ballet, and decided that no way would his vision of American ballet inhabit such a provincial corner of the New World. It was New York or bust.
 Seventy-five years later New York didn't even make Trey McIntyre's short list of possible homes for his company. In 18 successful years as a freelance choreographer, Mr. McIntyre, 38, created more than 75 works for ballet companies major and minor, racked up awards and served as resident choreographer for several troupes. But he hungered for his own company. In 2005 he formed the Trey McIntyre Project, a summer pickup group, and in 2007 he took it full time and began looking for a home.
 A national search was narrowed to eight cities, including San Francisco, Washington and Houston, where Mr. McIntyre made his start as the Houston Ballet's first choreographic apprentice. Practical considerations like financing and an existing audience base were duly scrutinized. 
 Yet ''the thing we were looking for became more and more intangible to define,'' said John Michael Schert, the company's executive director and one of its dancers, who is also Mr. McIntyre's companion of five years.
 Their final choice struck many as an unlikely one: Boise, the capital of Idaho. Bring on the potato jokes. 
 ''Fries are good,'' Mr. McIntyre said with a big, toothy grin. He was sporting the early stages of a woodsmanlike beard, a notable contrast to the blond highlights in his hair. His 6-foot-6 frame was clad in baggy jeans and a brown hooded sweatshirt and tucked into a plastic chair on the terrace of the Java cafe. He looked like a native, and the restaurant is just blocks from the chic, newly renovated modern home he and Mr. Schert, 27, share in the historic North End of the city. It is also a short drive from the Morrison Center for the Performing Arts, where the Trey McIntyre Project will perform on Saturday before embarking on a lengthy international tour. 
 But then, nothing is more than a short drive in Boise, including the staggeringly beautiful desert and mountain wilderness surrounding it. From the window of a descending airplane, it seems impossible that there will be enough flat terrain to accommodate a landing strip, until the Boise River opens from a narrow gorge to a level, verdant valley. The air is clear and dry. Sunsets are an event, sometimes the biggest event in town.
 An isolated city with a population of 211,000 and sleepy streets, Boise feels more Small Town U.S.A. than bustling urban center. The shock might have sent Balanchine running for the hills. (The rugged, scrub-covered Rocky Mountain foothills, that is; escape wouldn't have been easy.) It had the opposite effect on Mr. McIntyre, a native of Wichita, Kan., who first visited with his company three summers ago. Something in him recognized Boise as a place where he could live and create.
 Heather Rae, a sixth-generation Idahoan and a film producer who had worked in Los Angeles for years, knows the feeling. ''We've made seven movies in five years since moving to Boise,'' she said, speaking with her husband and partner, Russell Friedenberg, in front of their Muse Building, where the Trey McIntyre Project rents office space. ''It just freed us up.'' 
 Boise presents considerable problems for a dance company. The limited number of flights makes touring more arduous. There is no ideal rehearsal space, no suitable midsize theater. (The cavernous Morrison Center seats 2,000, a tall order for dance, and isn't cheap, limiting the company to a handful of shows per year.) And much work must be done to develop donors and audiences, though the company is somewhat insulated by its national board. Of the company's $1.5 million budget (up from $300,000 last summer), for example, donations account for $800,000. One-quarter of that, by current estimates, will come from Idaho; the company would like it to be half, Mr. Schert said.
 Mr. McIntyre was attracted by the sense of remoteness and by the idea that his company of 10 dancers, who agreed to move here along with four members of the production staff, could create their own world to a degree that would be impossible in dance-packed cities like New York and San Francisco.
 ''Everybody has their own version of what America is,'' Mr. McIntyre said. ''For me, it's the heartland.''
 ''There's a sense of the vastness of the plains,'' he added, explaining the feeling of weight in his classical but fiercely athletic movement vocabulary. ''There's something about that that makes you feel really rooted to the earth. It's a historical and a spiritual thing, I think.''
 There is something unassumingly Midwestern and deeply American in Mr. McIntyre's approach to ballet. At a rehearsal for the first work he is creating in Boise, a commission from the New Orleans Ballet Association that stipulates the use of New Orleans jazz, he talked his dancers through a phrase in which their arms swept out in a salute. ''Think of it like pride,'' he said, ''like there's an American flag right in front of you.''
 Like Christopher Wheeldon, whose company, Morphoses, is in its second season, Mr. McIntyre is emphatic in his desire to change ballet. The Trey McIntyre Project started partly in reaction to an anxiety suffusing ballet and partly as a rejection of a widespread business-over-art approach, Mr. McIntyre said, sprawled on his stomach at the lip of the Morrison stage after a media day that attracted all of four press outlets. (''We don't have many,'' the company's local press representative, Joanne Taylor, said with a smile.) 
 ''There's a lot of feelings of poverty, struggle, adversity,'' Mr. McIntyre said. '' 'Oh, too bad this can't happen.' But then people continue to do things the old way. I'm not saying we have all the answers, but we're questioning everything: Why are we here? Why does dance exist in America?''
 Morphoses/The Wheeldon Company is a pickup group based in New York and London and studded with stars. Mr. McIntyre's choice of a full-time, star-free troupe in Boise underlines his interest in keeping a low profile and building from the ground up. (Mr. McIntyre said he had rejected several inquiries from well-known dancers about guest appearances.) 
 If Mr. McIntyre is not as big a star as Mr. Wheeldon, his career -- spent mostly in regional companies, many of which are struggling to survive -- may have done more to shape American ballet. And the Trey McIntyre Project is banking on its ability to reshape Boise. 
 ''We're Boise's biggest export, artistically,'' Mr. Schert said. ''The city's really claimed us, which we've really encouraged.''
 In return Mr. Schert has aggressively laid out the company's needs. ''I'm lobbying,'' he begins many a sentence, and he excels at it. It doesn't hurt that he lives in a city where an appointment with the mayor, the personable David H. Bieter, can be easily had and requires no security check. During the annual dinner of Boise State University's College of Business and Economics, Mr. Schert quickly engaged the university president, Robert W. Kustra, in a serious discussion about renovating a campus theater to make it a suitable home for the company. 
 Mr. McIntyre, meanwhile, stared dreamily ahead and used his phone to photograph the cream swirling into his coffee. Hours before, he had commented on his discomfort at being such a visible figure in Boise, and it was clear that one of Mr. Schert's many roles isto shield him from this burden.
 Boise's arts scene is small (there are two other professional dance companies), and the attention lavished on Mr. McIntyre has understandably bred resentment. Daniel Ronfeld, an Idaho businessman and a member of the Project's local resources council, said that he had had some sticky conversations in explaining why his support for several local arts institutions would lessen this year because he was shifting his attention to Mr. McIntyre. 
 The resentment is also symptomatic of a larger shift. Geography has long kept Boise isolated, a situation that both frustrates and delights residents, who tend to follow gushing comments about their city with, ''But don't tell anybody.'' 
 Discovery, of course, is inevitable, and with it, change. This comes in the form of a developer like David Hale, who moved here in 1997 from Portland, Ore., with the goal of building the city up instead of out, and of developing high-end design projects like the Modern Hotel, a former Travelodge whose bar serves as an arts hub. Mr. Hale estimates that Boise is 10 or 15 years behind the largest Northwestern cities. He moved here because, like Mr. McIntyre and Mr. Schert, he saw a chance to shape something the way he wanted it shaped.
 And then there are those intangibles. 
 After the university dinner Mr. McIntyre and Mr. Schert drove up Shaw Mountain Road, their Toyota Prius hybrid skimming along the twisting dirt track. Mr. McIntyre stretched out in the back, lost in his thoughts, while Mr. Schert gave a reasoned answer about the choice of Boise being ''the longer, winding road to cultivation and understanding.''
 Suddenly Mr. McIntyre cut him off: ''God! Look at the sky.'' He pointed excitedly, every bit the little kid. Both men looked, driving on in silence.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Trey McIntyre, above, whose dance company has taken up residence in the Muse Building in Boise, Idaho. At top, the company performing ''Leatherwing Bat'' last month at Jacob's Pillow in Becket, Mass. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA ROPER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CHRISTOPHER DUGGAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); BALLET (90%); DANCE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); MOUNTAINS (84%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); DANCERS (77%); DANCE EDUCATION (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); THEATER (74%); RESTAURANTS (67%); WILDERNESS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (94%) IDAHO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



338 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1802 words

HEADLINE: Economy to Entrepreneurs: Turn Back

BYLINE: By JULIE BICK

 BODY:
IN 2000, Bobbi Reed moved from Denver to Sydney, Australia, for a month and ran a V.I.P. hospitality suite at the Summer Olympic Games. Two years later, at the Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, she and her team hosted 1,100 telecommunication workers, handling their food, housing and transportation. 
 As head of her own event-planning firm, Ms. Reed worked behind the scenes at four Olympic Games, meeting athletes and attending popular events. 
 ''The Olympics are such a fascinating bubble of activity, camaraderie and patriotism,'' she says. ''Every day I was there I thought, 'I am the luckiest person in the world.' '' 
 This year, she doesn't feel so lucky. She wasn't at the Olympics in Beijing -- instead, she watched them on television, at home, from her couch.
 Ms. Reed is no longer her own boss. Over the last few years, for a variety of economic reasons, the business she had built over a decade slowly started to disappear. 
 Kiwanis Club members in Colorado who hired her to organize an awards dinner decided the next year to do it themselves to save money. She lost another client after it was acquired by a bigger company.
 Finally, Ms. Reed decided that she should sell her company or close down. When she received an offer about a year ago to work as director of stadium operations at a complex near her home in Glendale, Colo., Ms. Reed decided to shutter her business and take the job.
 ''I won't get rich on my salary,'' she says, ''but it's nice having someone paying into my retirement account.'' 
 Amid the current economic turmoil, many entrepreneurs and small-business owners like Ms. Reed are debating whether it makes sense to seek safety in the corporate life -- and deciding that it does. 
 Research has consistently shown that the share of employment and sales accounted for by small businesses tends to be more cyclical than for large ones, says David B. Audretsch, a professor at Indiana University and the director of the Max Planck Institute of Economics in Jena, Germany. When the economy expands, small businesses gain more than large companies. In an economic downturn, small businesses tend to be hit harder. 
 Suffering the most are companies in construction, manufacturing, retailing, finance and overseas travel, says Chad Moutray, chief economist of the federal Small Business Administration. As for location, he says, ''small businesses have been hardest hit in areas where the housing crisis is at its worst.'' 
 The biggest concerns of small-business owners now include the rising costs of fuel, supplies and health insurance, said the National Federation of Independent Business, a trade group. 
 Less obvious factors can also hurt small businesses. Simon Francis, a corporate recruiter in Redwood City, Calif., at CTPartners, says some small companies might not have the financial cushion to stay afloat when their customers postpone payments. Another challenge, he says, is that a large company sometimes stops ordering products from a small business in a sagging economy, fearing the smaller one may go bankrupt. Of course, that very action could push an otherwise healthy company into bankruptcy.
 In the first two quarters of 2008, there were roughly 18,500 business bankruptcies, according to Dr. Moutray. While changes to bankruptcy laws and other factors make year-to-year trends hard to analyze, the 2008 data ''puts us on pace to surpass the last couple years,'' he said.
 There is no precise way to calculate how many people are closing their businesses and jumping to big companies. But Mr. Francis, a national recruiter whose firm places people across a spectrum of industries, says he has seen the phenomenon nationwide, from Atlanta to New York to Silicon Valley.
 Nancy Levine, a senior executive recruiter at the Pacific Firm in Berkeley, Calif., also has observed an uptick in the number of candidates who are business owners. ''In slower economies, we get more calls from sole proprietors,'' she said. ''Sometimes it feels like musical chairs: the economy stops and entrepreneurs dash for a spot back at the larger companies.''
 Ms. Reed was happy to have found a full-time job. At her new employer, Infinity Park, she enjoys some aspects of working at a big organization that she appreciated in her pre-entrepreneurial days at AT&T -- like stability, a steady paycheck and an opportunity for more teamwork. She was ready for a change, and excited about working at a job that has an impact on her community.
 But she acknowledged feeling twinges of nostalgia while watching the Beijing Olympics. ''I missed being right there in the action,'' she said.
 THE unemployment rate rose to 6.1 percent in August, a five-year high, so other small-business owners might find it harder to land another job. In industries with large cutbacks, business owners are competing with laid-off workers from top companies who may have more relevant experience. 
 ''In general, it's easier to place someone with a big name on their resume than a company people may not have heard of,'' Ms. Levine says. ''If they went to a top business school, that helps.'' 
 On the positive side, some potential employers and professional corporate recruiters say the proprietors can bring welcomed creativity and flexibility. 
 Entrepreneurs move in and out of large companies based on their own goals and what's happening in the market, Professor Audretsch says.
 Alistair Goodman, 44, an entrepreneur in the San Francisco Bay area, has worked in businesses both large and small. He sold a prior start-up, a company that made screens that display video ads at store checkout counters, and he worked this year with a colleague on another venture in online advertising.
 Ultimately, he thought the risk and uncertainty in the economy was too great to go forward with the start-up. ''It can be frustrating to have a great idea and a great partner but know there are external forces beyond your control that are preventing you from making it happen,'' he said. So he took a job as chief executive of 1020 Placecast, a three-year-old company that uses cellphones or other devices to deliver ads based on a consumer's location, like ones showing the site of the nearest Starbucks. 
 Mr. Goodman also sees upsides to working for a company that has made it past the start-up phase. ''In a start-up, you do what you're passionate about, but you also have to do all the mundane tasks,'' he said. But at a company that has business systems in place, he can spend most of his time doing things that he specializes in.
 For Brian Katz, the founder of a Web-based home furniture sales business in Boca Raton, Fla., the rising price of gasoline and a drop in demand persuaded him to close his virtual store. Mr. Katz opened the business in 1999 and within a few years he had 12 employees and was selling 47 lines of furniture. Margins were lucrative. When fuel prices started climbing, however, delivery companies started raising their rates and adding surcharges that cut significantly into his profit. 
 At the same time, he said, ''families were looking at their finances, and then at their furniture and saying: 'I guess we can live with the old stuff. We don't really need to buy anything right now.' '' Sales tumbled.
 Last year, Mr. Katz closed the business and had no problem finding a job. Today, he works for ACP Jets, a private jet company. ''I have a wife and kids, and I needed to know we'd have an income and health insurance,'' he said.
 Stephanie Otis of Seattle recently shuttered the consulting company that she started in 1994, after her first child was born. Ms. Otisspecialized in helping new restaurants find china, glassware, silver and other tabletop items to create a high-end ambiance. 
 As her children grew older, Ms. Otis wanted to add more work hours, but had a hard time doing so. ''Because my niche was restaurant openings, I didn't get repeat business,'' she said, ''and as the economy changed, there were fewer restaurants opening.'' 
 In February, Ms. Otis took a job as a sales manager at the Smith & Greene Company, a Seattle restaurant-supply dealer. ''Managing a team, shaping a division and working directly with local chefs and restaurants, all at the same time, is challenging,'' she said. ''But at least I don't have to worry about where my next project will come from.'' 
 Mature small businesses that have longstanding relationships and a history of managing their growth have few problems obtaining loans. But for some business owners, especially in finance, housing and the travel industries, tight credit is the biggest challenge. 
 Tom Easthope found this out when he was building a company that sells specialized travel packages. He came to the conclusion that creating a recognizable brand and expanding rapidly would require a huge amount of money. There was ''too much risk in the travel industry for me to get that cash infusion from investors,'' he says. 
 Rather than depending on a business that would grow slowly, Mr. Easthope took a job at Microsoft, helping the company prepare a plan to allow it to operate in the event of a disaster. A serial entrepreneur who says he finds himself ready for a change every few years, Mr. Easthope says he hopes that at a large enterprise, ''I can reinvent myself, change jobs or parts of the business, all without leaving the company.'' He has kept his travel business and is exploring a sale to an established travel company.
 OF course, many independent business owners are staying with their companies and using a variety of strategies to ride out the economy's turbulence. 
 Aruna N. Inalsingh of Manhattan founded and runs Ani Marketing Service, a firm that provides help with communication strategies and customer satisfaction research. To weather the financial ups and down, she has found two bread and butter clients who will provide her 20 hours a week of work each, and then adds a variety of short-term projects. ''I like to have two main clients in case one goes away,'' she says, ''and I consider the jobs on top of that as my bonus money and a way to keep my referrals and network fresh.''
 While some factors, like lower demand for goods or higher gas prices, can hurt small businesses, a tight economy can also provide advantages to independent operators. Companies like independent contractors because they can hire them to run an event or a marketing campaign or provide analysis; then, as soon as the project is done, they can remove them from the payroll. 
 Still, Ms. Inalsingh worries about whether her company can survive the current economic climate. She has recently heard of several professional acquaintances closing down their well-established businesses. ''I worry if I'm going to be next,'' she says, ''and it's very stressful.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bobbi Reed closed her own firm and went to work for Infinity Park in Glendale, Colo., when the economy soured. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU1)
Aruna Inalsingh, who started Ani Marketing Service, hopes to survive the downturn by serving two regular clients. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NADAV NEUHAUS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Alistair Goodman sold a start-up and joined 1020 Placecast, a 20-employee company. At left is Trip Henderson, the company's marketing director. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (94%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%)

COMPANY: CTPARTNERS EXECUTIVE SEARCH INC (50%)

TICKER: CTP (NYSE MKT) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (91%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) AUSTRALIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



339 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Reflections: New Orleans And China

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
For Americans watching events unfold on television late last month, the arduous evacuation of New Orleans and the grandeur of the Olympic Games couldn't have made for a starker contrast.
 However one feels about its other policies, the Chinese government is clearly not afraid to invest in the future of its cities. The array of architecture it created for the Beijing Olympics was only part of a mosaic of roads, bridges, tunnels, canals, subway lines and other projects that have transformed a medieval city of wood and brick into a modern metropolis overnight.
 Meanwhile, three full years after Hurricane Katrina devastated New Orleans, much of the city remains a wasteland. As Hurricane Gustav raced toward the Gulf Coast, it became clear that the city's patchwork levee system could not guarantee the safety of its citizens. The evacuation of tens of thousands of residents was cheered as some sort of victory.
 But for those with a sense of urban history, the tragedy of New Orleans is not just about governmental disregard for the welfare of the city's inhabitants. It is about a lost opportunity. All of the great challenges that confront the 21st-century city -- from class, race and environmental issues to the continuing duel between history and modernity -- are crystallized in New Orleans. 
 Yet the kind of visionary urban plan that could address these issues in a bold and thoughtful way has yet to materialize. Instead, some of the country's greatest architectural minds are inventing the future in cities like Beijing, Shenzhen and Dubai, where their talents are more appreciated.
 The signs pointing to this tragic turn of events were there for anyone who cared to read them. The great urban planning experiments that transformed America in the early 20th century were both triumphs of engineering and dazzling monuments to a free, mobile society. Anyone who has watched the film ''Chinatown'' knows the story of William Mulholland's aqueduct, which transformed Los Angeles from a desert wasteland into a sunny paradise of trim lawns and orange groves. Less known is the story of modern New Orleans, which exists because of the system of canals, levees and pumps -- the largest in the world -- that were used to drain acres of marshland.
 This kind of bold government planning died long ago, of course, a victim of both the public's disillusionment with the large-scale Modernist planning strategies of the postwar era and the antigovernment campaigns of the Reagan years. The consequences were obvious as soon as Katrina hit the Gulf Coast. And they have been reaffirmed many times since, with the collapse of the Interstate 35W bridge in Minneapolis and myriad accounts of our country's crumbling infrastructure.
 Still, many Americans stubbornly regard any kind of large-scale public works project with suspicion. Three years ago, for example, the nonprofit Urban Land Institute unveiled a master plan for New Orleans that would have transformed large parts of the city into wetland areas. But the proposal, which was released as thousands of people were struggling to make their way back to the city, caused a public outcry and was immediately dropped. The institute compounded the problem by not including a workable proposal for how to house those dislocated by the plan.
 Since then, the most concrete proposal has been a plan by the official in charge of the city's recovery, Edward J. Blakely, to identify 17 projects, from schools to community centers, that could be used to spur further development. But with a mere $400 million of public funds committed to the project, the plan is not likely to go far. (The city has hired the Boston firm Goody Clancy to prepare a citywide plan, but it is not scheduled for completion for another year.) 
 The lack of a coherent vision for the city's future means that some of the most critical reconstruction decisions -- like where to build -- are left to private homeowners. The notion of concentrating the bulk of new construction on higher ground, an approach that would be both safer and environmentally sound, rarely comes up. Instead, FEMA's distribution of relief money has sometimes encouraged people to rebuild in the most vulnerable low-lying areas, since it is used for repairing structures damaged by the storm, not for relocation. The perversity of such an approach can be seen in areas like Lakeview and the Ninth Ward, where the few scattered houses that have been rebuilt stand surrounded by acres of barren land, sometimes directly in the shadow of the levees. 
 When the government has been involved, it has often shown a callous indifference to the city's architectural history. A few months ago, the Department of Housing and Urban Development began tearing down thousands of low-income housing units built in the late 1930s and early '40s, including several low-rise brick apartment blocks in the working-class neighborhood of Treme that were among the best early examples of public housing in the country. There have also been threats to demolish Charity Hospital, a towering Art Deco landmark near downtown, as well as several Modernist schools built in the 1950s and '60s.
 Not surprisingly, what little progress has been made has been the work of a few determined nonprofit organizations. In the Holy Cross neighborhood, Global Green built a prototype for a sustainable shotgun house, complete with solar panels, natural ventilation and recycled materials. The house is the first step toward creating a planned sustainable community, organized around a town green that is designed to collect runoff water during a storm.
 Brad Pitt's Make It Right foundation recently completed a competition for the design of several sustainable single-family houses, the first of which are now under construction in the Ninth Ward. And other organizations, like the local Preservation Resource Center, have been painstakingly restoring a number of historical houses throughout the city. 
 Yet these scattershot efforts, however noble, do not constitute a thoughtful, coordinated urban plan. Shoring up existing levees will not magically transform New Orleans into a model for the contemporary city. 
 To accomplish that, the city will have to start with a blueprint for preserving the historic fabric that was not destroyed by Hurricane Katrina -- not just in tourist-friendly areas like the French Quarter, but across the city. It will need to tie efforts to rebuild the city's infrastructure to a broader plan that takes into account its shrinking population, the realities of global warming and the racial and social patterns that have shaped New Orleans for decades. And that plan will have to integrate the needs of those who are still suffering the most: working-class people who don't own their homes and can't find an affordable place to live. 
 This will take real brainpower, of course. But the idea that it can't be done -- or that Americans can't afford it -- seems more ludicrous than ever, given the example of China. Sometime later this year, Steven Holl, one of the brightest talents working today, will complete his Linked Hybrid residential complex in Beijing. The project is both a model of sustainable design and a breathtaking example of how to build an urban community in the 21st century. The London-based engineering firm Arup is working on a master plan for an entire sustainable city, Dongtan, in a wetland area near Shanghai.
 New Orleans, too, could become a bold vision -- a laboratory for how to rebuild America's faltering cities. It could evolve into a model for the future as compelling and optimistic as the one America offered to the world a generation ago. Or it could remain an emblem of how far we've fallen. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SLOW RECOVERY: The few buildings in the Ninth Ward that have been fixed stand amid acres of barren land. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.WK5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); HURRICANES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (88%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (76%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENGINEERING (71%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



340 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Play Magazine; FOOTBALL FOR SMARTIES; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: Do Pretty-Boy Quarterbacks Make More Money?

BYLINE: By DAVID J. BERRI

 BODY:
Do Pretty-Boy Quarterbacks Make More Money?
 When Brett Favre ''retired,'' he held the records for most career touchdown passes and most career passing yards. He also ended 2007 with another record: most attractive starting quarterback. 
 We tend to think that beauty is in the eye of the beholder. Research, though, has indicated that what we think of as facial attractiveness is really just facial symmetry. And of all the faces of starting quarterbacks from 2007, Favre's, as measured by a computer, is the most symmetrical. In other words, he's the most attractive.
 In football, prettiness shouldn't matter -- just ask Johnny Unitas. Players are evaluated solely on their ability to contribute to wins, right? Not entirely. The economists Rob Simmons, Jennifer VanGilder and I collected data on 121 N.F.L. quarterbacks who played from 1995 to 2006. We looked at the factors that determine player pay -- career statistics, experience, Pro Bowl appearances and draft position -- as well as the symmetry of each quarterback's face. Sure enough, symmetry had a positive impact on a quarterback's salary. Specifically, an increase of one standard deviation in facial symmetry led to a nearly 8 percent increase in pay. 
 To put this result in perspective, we found that a ''good-looking'' quarterback like Kerry Collins or Charlie Frye earned approximately $300,000 more per year than his stats and other pay factors would predict. Meanwhile, quarterbacks like Jeff George and Neil O'Donnell, who, sadly, were not found to have very symmetrical faces, suffered an equivalent penalty.
 But it's not the Brett Favres -- the guys often referred to as ''the face of the franchise'' -- who receive the greatest return on their handsome faces. It's the QBs clinging to the bottom of the roster who get the biggest pay bump from good looks.
 What this indicates is that when teams are scouting backups, they may be looking for just another pretty face. This is good news for Dan Orlovsky, who is battling Drew Stanton for the backup position with the Detroit Lions. No offense to Stanton, but the computer has spoken: Orlovsky is the better-looking prospect. DAVID J. BERRI

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SMILING ALL THE WAY TO THE BANK: So-called attractive quarterbacks Carson Palmer, Tom Brady, Matt Leinart, Matt Hasselbeck and Brett Favre (from left). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GETTY IMAGES
 AMY SUSSMAN / GETTY IMAGES, NEILSON BARNARD / GETTY IMAGES, STREETER LECKA / GETTY IMAGES, KEVIN WINTER / GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); STATISTICAL METHOD (73%); STATISTICS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (65%) MICHIGAN, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



341 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1754 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: September 14, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 AMONG STORM VICTIMS
 Are Poorest of Poor
 A string of hurricanes and tropical storms this month have laid bare the poverty and the deep divisions in Haitian society, where there are the rich, the poor and the downright destitute. Among those affected were an estimated 300,000 children, an age group already suffering from significant problems before the storms, with many of them easy prey for exploitation. PAGE 8
 MALAYSIA SHIFT POSSIBLE
 Malaysia may be on the brink of a liberal, more democratic era: The country's most famous dissident, Anwar Ibrahim, says he has enough votes to bring down the government and might do so as early as this week. If Mr. Anwar succeeds, his actions could have implications far beyond Malaysia; he is one of the leading proponents of the idea that Islam and liberal democracy are complementary. PAGE 6 
 AFGHAN GOVERNOR KILLED
 The governor of Logar Province, Afghanistan, was killed in a bomb explosion near his home on the edge of Kabul, another stark example of deteriorating security in the areas adjoining the capital. The governor, Abdullah Wardak, was on his way from his home to appear before a session of the Senate on the situation in Logar province, a target of recent militant attacks. PAGE 12
 NATIONAL
 IN A TIME OF NEED,
 Using Fruit as Alms
 The concept of gleaning, or collecting, a portion of crops on farmers' fields for the needy is not a new one. But it has taken on new life -- and sophistication -- in a time when food prices are high and backyard fruit might otherwise go unharvested. PAGE 22
 HUSBAND'S ROLE STUDIED
 The subpoena Alaska lawmakers voted to issue to Todd Palin underscores his activist role in his wife's administration as governor, a role that has made many people in government uncomfortable and often confused over how to react. PAGE 25
 METRO 
 WHERE THE MONEY STILL IS
 Bank robberies hold a certain place of fascination and even romance in the public psyche, and despite crime rates far below those of decades past, they are up sharply this year in New York. But it turns out that bank jobs are a fairly pedestrian, and not terribly lucrative, criminal undertaking. PAGE 39
 A LONG-SHOT BID
 Is this the year that a blind rabbi is elected to Congress? Probably not, though Dennis Shulman, a psychologist and rabbi who lost his sight as a child, is making a bid in New Jersey. And Peter Applebome writes that it would be foolish to dismiss Dr. Shulman's challenge. Our Towns. PAGE 39
 SPORTS
 HARD TIMES FOR A TEAM
 That Has Had Harder
 It may seem to some Yankees fans as if the team has an inalienable right to a place in the postseason. But as this season creaks to an end, it is worth noting that the Bombers once finished seventh in an eight-team league, at a time when a fellow named Babe Ruth was playing for them. Dave Anderson, Sports of the Times. PAGE 1
 A JET TRANSFORMED
 For Jerricho Cotchery, the transformation has been part personal, part professional: from the bottom of the depth chart among Jets receivers to the top of it, from childless to doting dad. And from relative anonymity to someone who is approached for an autograph. But it took time. PAGE 1
 WHEN THE GENIE GOT OUT
 There was a time when sports reporters lived by a different code: players' private lives and off-field behavior were off limits. But that all began to change 50 years ago, when a coach and a player tussled on a train, and a newspaper reporter in a jam needed a story. PAGE 2
 AUTOMOBILES
 G.M. TURNS 100,
 With Hopes for More
 General Motors turns 100 this week, and whether it has another 100 years could depend on the reception of its much-promoted new sedan, the Volt, which will operate as an electric car in typical local driving. It is expected to be unveiled this week. SPORTS, Page 11
 THE MAGAZINE
 SEX, PLEASE, 
 They're British
 How a topless pinup girl climbed to the pinnacle of celebrity in England while remaining utterly unknown in the United States. PAGE 60
 THE POLITICS OF WIND
 For years, wind-farm projects have stalled in the face of local political opposition. Then an entrepreneur named Peter Mandelstam came up with a new and energizing approach. PAGE 76
 Questions for: 
 Kerry Kennedy 12
 PLAY MAGAZINE
 THE PUZZLING PERILS
 Of Barry Zito
 He had the best curveball in the game, a Cy Young Award and an image as baseball's resident cool surfer dude, all in his early 20s. Then came a $126 million, seven-year contract, and there went the curveball, followed by the free spirit. Barry Zito at 30. PAGE 36
 THE ONE LEFT BEHIND
 When athletes are young, sports seem to provide a solution to every problem the world has to offer. And then they don't. The Holland twins and the wages of war. PAGE 64
 BOOK REVIEW
 BUILDING A DYNASTY
 Along With a Legend
 Chuck Knoll won more Super Bowls with the Steelers; Bill Belichick has as many (and counting?) with the Patriots. But Bill Walsh of the 49ers is the subject of ''The Genius,'' with a subtitle that credits him with reinventing football. In his review, Gregory Cowles calls it ''a sports biography that is thorough, diligent, generous and honest.'' Need more? PAGE 20
 LOVE AND MARRIAGES
 Readers get two for the price of one in ''Two Marriages,'' a pair of novellas by Phillip Lopate. Jan Stuart calls the first one ''mordantly funny,'' but says the second ''plays like the B side of a hit 45.'' PAGE 11
 City of Refuge 14 
 Dry Storeroom No. 1 8 
 Attack of the Megalisters 31 
 SUNDAY BUSINESS
 ECONOMY PUTS BRAKES
 On Entrepreneurs
 Research has consistently shown that small businesses gain more than large companies in an upturn and lose more in a downturn. With the current economic turmoil, many entrepreneurs and small-business owners are deciding that it makes sense to seek safety in the corporate life. PAGE 1
 HOLDING THE PHONE LINE
 Worried about the in-flight equivalent of road rage, airlines have been less than enthusiastic about voice-call capability. But the technology is here, and with Aircell's in-flight Internet access, called Gogo, that American Airlines is offering, the camel's nose is in the tent. PAGE 4
 SHORT-SIZE THAT FOR YOU?
 It is the opposite of supersizing; in industry lingo, it's called short-sizing: the practice of reducing the size of packages without necessarily reducing the price of the goods. Did business really think that no one would notice? PAGE 5
 ARTS & LEISURE
 A ROUGH RECEPTION, 
 And Now a Debut
 It was known as the ''Dakota Fanning rape movie'' at the Sundance Film Festival in 2007, got boos at a press screening and eviscerating reviews. But the film, actually titled ''Hounddog'' and with a radically different cut, will make it into 22 theaters across the country on Friday. PAGE 15
 PLAYS STUDY LOVE AND WAR
 Decades after bringing the Vietnam War to Broadway in ''Moonchildren,'' Michael Weller, 65, is again tackling pressing concerns for his generation (now somewhat older and maybe with kids): Iraq and marriage. PAGE 6
 TRAVEL
 ROUGHING IT
 Without the Rough
 Purists (or survivalists) may scoff at the idea, but ''glamping'' -- the new term for upscale, or glamorous, camping -- could be ideal for those who want an outdoor experience without the outdoor fuss. PAGE 4
 SUNDAY STYLES
 THE HIVE THAT GAVE
 Governor Palin Her Bee
 Sarah Palin's upsweep has occasioned praise and derision since John McCain selected her as his vice-presidential running mate, depending perhaps as much on political persuasion as hair appreciation. They seem to like it fine at the Beehive Beauty Shop in Wasilla, Alaska, where Governor Palin has been a client for six years, refining the look. PAGE 1
 TATTOOED VOWS
 If you happen to have a wedding ring tattoo instead of a wedding band as your symbol of commitment, then you are one of a small (let's not say elite) group that at one point included Pamela Anderson. Her husband at the time, Tommy Lee, chose another location. PAGE 2
 AUTOMOBILES
 G.M. TURNS 100,
 With Hopes for More
 General Motors turns 100 this week, and whether it has another 100 years could depend on the reception of its much-promoted new sedan, the Volt, which will operate as an electric car in typical local driving. It is expected to be unveiled this week and reach customers in November 2010. PAGE 1 (Page 12 in Sunday Business in some copies)
 WEEK IN REVIEW
 A BRIGHTER FUTURE,
 Sooner or Later
 A person could go broke -- and some probably will -- trying to call the bottom on Wall Street this year. But Alex Berenson sees an upside, eventually: a smaller and more risk-averse Wall Street. ''And though that transition is turning out to be very painful, the change could eventually put the economy on firmer footing,'' he writes. PAGE 1
 IDEAS OF BUILDING
 Much planning and brainpower are needed to help rebuild and revive the post-Katrina New Orleans, Nicolai Ouroussoff writes. ''But the idea that it can't be done -- or that Americans can't afford it -- seems more ludicrous than ever, given the example of China'' and its remaking of Beijing, he adds. PAGE 1
 Editorial 
 BAILOUT HIDE-AND-SEEK
 On Friday, the White House announced that there was no reason at this time to account for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the federal budget. That is great news for officials who prefer to hide the cost, but it's an insult to taxpayers, whose money is at risk. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
 NOT SAFE ENOUGH
 Seven years after 9/11, why is a respected bipartisan group giving the United States government only a grade of C for its efforts to prevent nuclear, chemical and biological terrorism? PAGE 9
 CONSUMER PROTECTION
 For all of the candidates who keep talking about helping the ordinary Americans, here's an easy one: Get behind the Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights. PAGE 9
 Op-Ed
 FRANK RICH
 The Palin nomination isn't about change but fear of change: the same vitriolic animus of right-wing populism as always.
 WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 The McCain campaign is now built on turning everything possible into a cultural wedge issue -- including even energy policy, no matter how stupid it makes the voters and no matter how much it might weaken America.
 WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
 PUBLIC EDITOR
 Recent coverage left some readers wondering why The Times used Barack Obama's middle name, Hussein, when he was nominated in Denver last month and why The Times persists in referring to Sarah Palin as Ms. Palin instead of Mrs. Palin. Bias? Tradition? The Public Editor takes a look. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); HURRICANES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); SUBPOENAS (71%); FOOD PRICES (70%); CRIME RATES (62%); BANK ROBBERY (62%); RELIGION (54%)

PERSON: TODD PALIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) ALASKA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (93%); HAITI (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



342 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1798 words

HEADLINE: With Push From White House, U.S. Arms Sales Rise Sharply

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is pushing through a broad array of foreign weapons deals as it seeks to rearm Iraq and Afghanistan, contain North Korea and Iran, and solidify ties with onetime Russian allies.
 From tanks, helicopters and fighter jets to missiles, remotely piloted aircraft and even warships, the Department of Defense has agreed so far this fiscal year to sell or transfer more than $32 billion in weapons and other military equipment to foreign governments, compared with $12 billion in 2005. 
 The trend, which started in 2006, is most pronounced in the Middle East, but it reaches into northern Africa, Asia, Latin America, Europe and even Canada, through dozens of deals that senior Bush administration officials say they are confident will both tighten military alliances and combat terrorism.
 ''This is not about being gunrunners,'' said Bruce S. Lemkin, the Air Force deputy under secretary who is helping to coordinate many of the biggest sales. ''This is about building a more secure world.'' 
 The surging American arms sales reflect the foreign policy tides, including the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and the broader campaign against international terrorism, that have dominated the Bush administration. Deliveries on orders now being placed will continue for several years, perhaps as one of President Bush's most lasting legacies.
 The United States is far from the only country pushing sophisticated weapons systems: it is facing intense competition from Russia and elsewhere in Europe, including continuing contests for multibillion-dollar deals to sell fighter jets to India and Brazil.
 In that booming market, American military contractors are working closely with the Pentagon, which acts as a broker and procures arms for foreign customers through its Foreign Military Sales program. 
 Less sophisticated weapons, and services to maintain these weapons systems, are often bought directly by foreign governments. That category of direct commercial sales has seen an enormous surge as well, as measured by export licenses issued this fiscal year covering an estimated $96 billion, up from $58 billion in 2005, according to the State Department, which must approve the licenses. 
 About 60 countries get annual military aid from the United States, $4.5 billion a year, to help them buy American weapons. Israel and Egypt receive more than 80 percent of that aid. The United States has also recently given Iraq and Afghanistan large amounts of weapons and other equipment and has begun to train fledgling military units at no charge; this assistance is included in the tally of foreign sales. But most arms exports are paid for by the purchasers without United States financing. 
 The growing tally of international weapon deals, which started to surge in 2006, is now provoking questions among some advocates of arms control and some members of Congress. 
 ''Sure, this is a quick and easy way to cement alliances,'' said William D. Hartung, an arms control specialist at the New America Foundation, a public policy institute. ''But this is getting out of hand.'' 
 Congress is notified before major arms sales deals are completed between foreign governments and the Pentagon. While lawmakers have the power to object formally and block any individual sale, they rarely use it. 
 Representative Howard L. Berman of California, chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, said he supported many of the individual weapons sales, like helping Iraq build the capacity to defend itself, but he worried that the sales blitz could have some negative effects. ''This could turn into a spiraling arms race that in the end could decrease stability,'' he said. 
 The United States has long been the top arms supplier to the world. In the past several years, however, the list of nations that rely on the United States as a primary source of major weapons systems has greatly expanded. Among the recent additions are Argentina, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Georgia, India, Iraq, Morocco and Pakistan, according to sales data through the end of last month provided by the Department of Defense. Cumulatively, these countries signed $870 million worth of arms deals with the United States from 2001 to 2004. For the past four fiscal years, that total has been $13.8 billion. 
 In many cases, these sales represent a cultural shift, as nations like Romania, Poland and Morocco, which have long relied on Russian-made MIG-17 fighter jets, are now buying new F-16s, built by Lockheed Martin. 
 At Lockheed Martin, one of the largest American military contractors, international sales last year brought in about $6.3 billion, or 15 percent of the company's total sales, up from $4.8 billion in 2001. The foreign sales by Lockheed and other American military contractors are credited with helping keep alive some production lines, like those of the F-16 fighter jet and Boeing's C-17 transport plane. 
 Fighter jets made in America will now be flying in other countries for years to come, meaning continued profits for American contractors that maintain them, and in many cases regular interaction between the United States military and foreign air forces, Mr. Lemkin, the Air Force official, said.
 Sales are also being driven by the push by many foreign nations to join the once-exclusive club of countries whose arsenals include precise, laser-guided missiles, high-priced American technology that the United States displayed during its invasions of Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 In the Persian Gulf region, much of the rearmament is driven by fears of Iran. 
 The United Arab Emirates, for example, are considering spending as much as $16 billion on American-made missile defense systems, according to recent notifications sent to Congress by the Department of Defense. 
 The Emirates also have announced an intention to order offensive weapons, including up to 26 Black Hawk helicopters and 900 Longbow Hellfire II missiles, which can knock out enemy tanks.
 Saudi Arabia, this fiscal year alone, has signed at least $6 billion worth of agreements to buy weapons from the United States government -- the highest figure for that country since 1993, which was another peak year in American weapons sales, after the first Persian Gulf war. 
 Israel, long a major buyer of United States military equipment, is also increasing its orders, including planned purchases of perhaps as many as four American-made coastal warships, worth $1.9 billion. 
 In Asia, as North Korea has conducted tests of a long-range missile, American allies have been buying more United States equipment. One ally, South Korea, has signed sales agreements with the Pentagon this year worth $1.1 billion. 
 So far, the value of foreign arms deliveries completed by the United States has increased only modestly, reaching $13 billion last year compared with an average of $12 billion over the previous three years. Because complex weapons systems take a long time to produce, it is expected that the increase in sales agreements will result in much greater arms deliveries in the coming years. (All dollar amounts for previous years cited in this article have been adjusted to reflect the impact of inflation.) 
 The flood of sophisticated American military equipment pouring into the Middle East has evoked concern among some members of Congress, who fear that the Bush administration may be compromising the military edge Israel has long maintained in the region. 
 Not surprisingly, two of the biggest new American arms customers are Iraq and Afghanistan.
 Just in the past two years, Iraq has signed more than $3 billion of sales agreements -- and announced plans to buy perhaps as much as $7 billion more in American equipment, financed by its rising oil revenues. 
 Lt. Col. Almarah Belk, a Pentagon spokeswoman, said that making these sales served the interests of both Iraq and the United States because ''it reduces the risk of corruption and assists the Iraqis in getting around bottlenecks in their acquisition processes.''
 Over the past three years, the United States government, separately, has agreed to buy more than $10 billion in military equipment and weapons on behalf of Afghanistan, according to Defense Department records, including M-16 rifles and C-27 military transport aircraft. 
 Even tiny countries like Estonia and Latvia are getting into the mix, playing a part in a collaborative effort by 15 countries, mostly in Europe, to buy two C-17 Boeing transport planes, which are used in moving military supplies as well as conducting relief missions. 
 Boeing has delivered 176 of these $200 million planes to the United States. But until 2006, Britain was the only foreign country that flew them. Now, in addition to the European consortium, Canada, Australia and Qatar have put in orders, and Boeing is competing to sell the plane to six other countries, said Tommy Dunehew, Boeing's C-17 international sales manager.
 In the last year, foreign sales have made up nearly half of the production at the California plant where C-17s are made. ''It has been filling up the factory in the last couple of years,'' Mr. Dunehew said.
 Even before this new round of sales got under way, the United States' share of the world arms trade was rising, from 40 percent of arms deliveries in 2000 to nearly 52 percent in 2006, the latest year for which the Congressional Research Service has compiled data. The next-largest seller was Russia, which in 2006 accounted for 21 percent of global deliveries. 
 Representative Berman, who sponsored a bill passed in May to overhaul the arms export process, said American military sales, while often well intended, were sometimes misguided. He cited military sales to Pakistan, which he said he feared were doing more to stoke tensions with India than combat terrorism in the region. 
 Travis Sharp, a military policy analyst at the Center for Arms Control and Nonproliferation, a Washington research group, said one of his biggest worries was that if alliances shifted, the United States might eventually be in combat against an enemy equipped with American-made weapons. Arms sales have had unintended consequences before, as when the United States armed militants fighting the Soviets in Afghanistan, only to eventually confront hostile Taliban fighters armed with the same weapons there.
 ''Once you sell arms to another country, you lose control over how they are used,'' Mr. Sharp said. ''And the weapons, unfortunately, don't have an expiration date.''
 But Mr. Lemkin, of the Pentagon, said that with so many nations now willing to sell advanced weapons systems, the United States could not afford to be too restrictive in its own sales. 
 ''Would you rather they bought the weapons and aircraft from other countries?'' he said. ''Because they will.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan, right, at a ceremony on Feb. 2, 2007, for the United States' transfer to the Afghan Army of 213 Humvees and more than 12,000 light weapons. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETTY OFFICER FIRST CLASS SCOTT COHEN/UNITED STATES NAVY)(A14) CHARTS: U.S. Weapons Abroad: In recent years, there has been a sharp increase in the value of sales agreements between the United States and foreign nations for weapons and other military equipment, with the biggest-ticket deals in the Middle East.
Foreign military sales, in billions: *Through Aug. 28
Recent sales: Circles represent the value of U.S. weapons sold to each country from 2006 to 2008.
Among recent notifications to Congress of possible sales: The United Arab Emirates have expressed interest in spending as much as $9 billion on the Patriot missile system.
A consortium of mostly European nations is considering buying two Boeing C-17 transport planes as part of a deal worth up to $700 million.
 In July, an order for as much as $9.2 billion worth of equipment for Iraq was submitted, including up to 140 Abrams tanks.(Source: Defense Security Coordination Agency)(A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS TRADE (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); HELICOPTERS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); SALES & SELLING (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); TRENDS (75%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (73%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (72%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (72%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); TERRORISM (69%); EXPORT CONTROLS (67%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (67%); LICENSES & PERMITS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (59%); US AIR FORCE (56%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); EGYPT (79%); BRAZIL (79%); AFRICA (79%); CANADA (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



343 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Play Magazine; N.F.L. 2008 FOOTBALL FOR SMARTIES; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 3439 words

HEADLINE: Are We (Finally) Entering The Age of the Running Quarterback?

BYLINE: By PETER RICHMOND. 
Peter Richmond is the co-author, with Frank Gifford, of ''The Glory Game: How the 1958 N.F.L. Championship Changed Football Forever,'' to be published in November.

 BODY:
 Vince Young wants to run; you can see it when he's standing still. You can see it in his unusual stance as he crouches under center, calling the signals against a backdrop of cicada song during an August morning practice at the Tennessee Titans' training camp just north of Nashville. As he awaits the snap, Young's feet are not set in the conventional, side-by-side pose of the pocket passer; his right foot is planted a good two feet ahead of his left, like a sprinter whose feet are set in invisible starting blocks. His long upper torso leans slightly forward, as if he's impatient, urgent, waiting to be loosed.
 You can see it after the snap, too -- in how naturally, how eagerly, as the pocket collapses around him on this play, he tucks the football into his chest and looks for a sliver of escape. He finds it, and starts to run -- but only for a moment. As he starts to scramble, the secondary freezes, anticipating his run. Suddenly he pulls up, short of the line of scrimmage, and lofts a 40-yard spiral to the back of the end zone, where the receiver Justin Gage, wide open, gathers the ball in for a touchdown. 
 Shouts and applause erupt from a few hundred spectators crowding the chain-link fence that rings the field, including at least a dozen grown men and little kids draped in Vince Young jerseys. They've all seen what they came for.
 Out on the field, the Titans' head coach, Jeff Fisher, face impassive behind impenetrable shades but clearly smiling inside, declares the practice over. Fisher, too, has seen what he wanted to see: a huge, hugely athletic quarterback who is learning how and when to run, and how and when to pass, and how and when to use the two together. In one play, Jeff Fisher has seen the future, the latest, newest prototype of the professional football quarterback. Surely, finally, his time has come.
 Except, of course, that we've been seeing glimpses of the future for a long time now. It seems to arrive every few years, making for an unbroken line of ever-faster, more powerfully armed running quarterbacks: from Randall Cunningham to Steve Young to Kordell Stewart to Steve McNair to Donovan McNabb to Daunte Culpepper to Michael Vick, and now to Vincent Young. You know him when you see him: the mobile quarterback who is a threat to run on every play. He wins games with his legs as well as his arm. He possesses more than what the commentators today like to call ''escapability''; his running forces defensive coordinators to adjust their game plans. (Statistically speaking, the dozen or so quarterbacks known for their mobility over the last 20 years ran at least four or five times a game, and at least once for every half-dozen or so passes they threw.) And when given the chance, mobile quarterbacks have traditionally had considerable professional success. McNair reached two A.F.C. championship games, and he guided his team to within a yard of a tying touchdown in the final seconds of a Super Bowl. McNabb played in four N.F.C. championship games and a Super Bowl in five years. Stewart played in two A.F.C. championship games. Culpepper and Vick made it to N.F.C. championship games. All were selected to the Pro Bowl.
 And still the multidimensional quarterback remains the exception, not the rule. Last February, two largely immobile quarterbacks, Tom Brady and Eli Manning, played in the Super Bowl -- just as two other largely immobile quarterbacks, Rex Grossman and Peyton Manning, had the year before. In June, the first four quarterbacks selected in the draft were pocket passers who seldom, if ever, ran in college. It wasn't until the third round that a truly mobile quarterback was picked, when the New England Patriots selected Kevin O'Connell of San Diego State; considering the durability of Tom Brady, the man he will be groomed to replace, O'Connell's running is likely to be in place and on the sideline for the next few years. What's more, O'Connell's counterpart across town at the University of San Diego, Josh Johnson, another mobile quarterback, wasn't drafted until the fifth round, despite leading the nation in passing efficiency and averaging more than seven yards per carry last season. ''It's not where you start,'' Johnson told me from the Tampa Bay Buccaneers' training camp, ''it's how you finish.'' But if history means anything, Johnson will not be finishing off 60-yard runs when -- and if -- he plays for Tampa Bay. He will be tutored to stay in the pocket.
 So why, in an era of widespread quarterback mediocrity, decades after Cunningham ran the Philadelphia Eagles into the playoffs year after year -- as more and more colleges now embrace offensive formations that feature running quarterbacks and as youth leagues, in turn, increasingly train their best pure athletes to be running passers -- does the N.F.L. remain a league of predominantly pocket passers? Whence, in short, all the Matt Ryans and Joe Flaccos?
 Start with the mental and physical demands facing a running quarterback who has to adjust to an offensive system built on passing from the pocket. It's hard enough for a player to adjust to the N.F.L.'s speed and strength; it's harder still to teach someone who has relied on his legs to escape pressure to stick around in the pocket long enough to read bewilderingly complicated pro defenses. ''The problem is that most of us think, I don't have to sit there and take the beating -- if I can just get out of there, I could make something happen,'' says Steve Young, who was the Super Bowl M.V.P. in 1995. ''You think: I'm a ballplayer, suit me up, I'll make plays, watch me go. Learning to stay in the pocket is a challenge everyone faces. It's longer and harder for a runner, because your mind says, Why would I sit here?
 ''But there's a distinction between Vince and me,'' Steve Young continues. ''I went through a training in college [at Brigham Young University]. I dropped back 50 times a game. Vince has started from a rawer place.''
 Vince Young (like Michael Vick before him) represents a distinctly modern breed of mobile quarterback, coming as he did from a run-oriented, spread-option offense in college. The spread-option, which is colonizing college football, develops different skills. ''It's very rare to find quarterbacks who know how to take a snap from center,'' says Mike Heimerdinger, Young's new offensive coordinator with the Titans. ''It's funny. When you were evaluating a guy in college, it used to be, 'What can he do in the shotgun?' Now it's flipped. Now part of the evaluation is, 'Can he take a snap from center?' I'm not knocking the spread offense. It's the trend. But now there are some things we have to do to retrain them.''
 Jim Harbaugh, the former N.F.L. quarterback and current head coach at Stanford, who developed Josh Johnson at U.S.D., notes that the college quarterback in a spread-option offense ''is reading the defensive end -- in the N.F.L., you're reading the secondary rotations, the linebackers.'' Harbaugh adds: ''And the spread-option guy hasn't taken 1,000 snaps from center. You're just not looking at a finished project.''
 When these college products get to the N.F.L., ''it looks like scrambled eggs to them,'' in the words of Quincy Carter, whose mobility helped lead the Dallas Cowboys to the playoffs in 2003. ''Look at Alex Smith in San Francisco. He played in that spread offense with Coach [Urban] Meyer at Utah, and I think that hurt him.''
 Simple economics also reinforces the status quo. When N.F.L. teams spend a large percentage of their payroll on a quarterback -- and on linemen to protect him -- they are loath to put him in the way of strong safeties the size of linebackers. ''It does a defense good to know that if a quarterback gets out of the pocket, you have a chance to give him a shot,'' says Doug Williams, the Super Bowl-winning quarterback who is now a player personnel executive with Tampa Bay. ''You don't want to have your quarterback make a living running, because he won't make a living.''
 As Jerry Reese, the general manager of the New York Giants, puts it: ''You only have 53 players on a roster. Unless you're thinking about getting 10 quarterbacks, you don't want to see your guy running out there.'' According to Reese, protecting the passer is ''the name of the game'' in the N.F.L. ''People pay gigantic money for linemen to protect the passer,'' he says.
 Even if Troy Aikman -- a virtual statue behind his line -- suffered a similar number of concussions as Steve Young, and even if the Cincinnati Bengals' quarterback Carson Palmer blew out a knee in the pocket, the league-wide consensus is that giving free rein to a quarterback is too risky. ''There's too much wear and tear on a quarterback to be getting hit like a running back,'' Carter says. ''Michael Vick had some unbelievable years running the football'' -- but Carter wonders if his passing ''didn't suffer from that, from the hits he took all the time.''
 Economics shackles the mobile quarterback in another way: no N.F.L. team is likely to be willing to remodel its offensive roster, built through drafts and trades over the course of years, around a single athlete with special skills. Yet the spread-option continues to expand across the college landscape. As Harbaugh notes, ''With 120 Division I programs, there aren't 120 world-class accurate throwers'' -- making the spread offense, ''where you don't have to have an accurate quarterback,'' very attractive. So it figures that there will be more quarterbacks struggling to adjust to the pro game. Until, at least, an N.F.L. coach finally decides to adapt his offense to fit the new-breed quarterback, instead of the other way around.
 According to one prominent college coach, that day will eventually come. Gary Crowton, the offensive coordinator of Louisiana State University, the reigning national champion, says he doesn't think a full-time spread is the answer, but that at some point it will come to the N.F.L. part-time: ''At L.S.U., we have the spread, but we also have the old stuff -- the two backs, the two tight ends, going in and out. I think the N.F.L. can get like that.''
 Crowton's perspective is worth considering, given his experiences as offensive coordinator of the Chicago Bears in 1999 and 2000 and, more recently, at the University of Oregon, where he replaced the pro-set offense with a spread-option before joining L.S.U.'s staff in 2007. And as the director of two youth camps for athletes as young as 12, Crowton sees the seeds of change being sown at the most basic developmental level, as kids are groomed for their spread-option futures in college.
 ''It used to be in youth programs that the best, athletic guys were usually wide receivers, running backs,'' Crowton says. ''Now in my camps, over just the last four or five years, I'm noticing that there are so many good passing quarterbacks that are also tremendously athletic. . . . In youth football, in junior high and high school, you're finding more skilled kids who can throw the ball.
 ''As the colleges evolve, the youth programs evolve. I think, at some point, that is going to get to the N.F.L. The old-timers may not want that to happen. They're not used to that; they're used to a different way. But there will be some people on the cutting edge who will take some chances.'' And when someone comes in, and makes it work, Crowton says, ''then everyone will do it. That's how the N.F.L. is: until you can prove it'll work, nothing will change.''
 ''I think it's too early to talk about Vince Young now,'' Jerry Reese says. ''With quarterbacks, I think their third year of playing full time is when they make the jump, when things slow down for them and the lights come on.'' And Reese does think teams can win with a running quarterback: ''It has happened, and it will happen again.''
 But the one truly mobile quarterback to have won a Super Bowl, Steve Young, remains convinced that Vince Young will win it all only if he starts to think and play like a pocket passer. ''I feel for Vince -- because he's so improvisational and so effective, it's hard to make a guy believe it's not enough,'' Young says. ''But in the N.F.L., the job of the quarterback is to deliver the football from the pocket. He has to make that transition. Playing improvisationally in college took him to the national championship -- but now he has to reconvince himself that that doesn't work for five months in the pros. To win consistently, you have to perfect sitting in the pocket and delivering the football.
 ''Look,'' Young adds, ''the rest of his game will never go away. It'll always be a great weapon. If Vince Young passionately takes the challenge on, and if he enacts a plan to learn everything he can about making the transition -- if he learns a Peyton Manning-like presence in the pocket -- he'll have more than anyone else. That's the double weapon.''
 For now, anyway, the Titans seem committed to adapting their offense to their man, adding some running plays for Young to the playbook and encouraging him to follow his instincts. Jeff Fisher says that he has no desire to rein his quarterback in this year; Young is at his best, Fisher says, when he has the option to run. ''The interesting thing about Vince is that during his first year, it wasn't until he really started pulling the ball down and running that we started having success,'' Fisher says, ''and I think maybe subconsciously at first he bought into the idea that he couldn't run in the N.F.L. because the defenses are much faster. As a result, he didn't. But once he started, that's when he started having success.''
 According to the Titans' veteran center, Kevin Mawae, who has spent 14 years observing quarterbacks, Young's running brings more to the team than quantifiable success: it's when Young is using every part of his game that he is at his best as a leader. ''It's fun to be in the huddle with him,'' Mawae says. ''When he's in his mode, and he's making his plays. When something breaks down and he freelances, it's fun. Not only do you see what he's capable of doing, you see the passion he has for the game.''
 Young's rookie-year success -- 552 yards rushing; a six-game winning streak in the second half of the season that featured three consecutive come-from-behind wins, all of which featured his running ability -- set the bar improbably high. Young's second year, when the quad injury limited his running, has been widely regarded as a disappointment: he threw 17 interceptions and struggled with his production in the red zone. But by several measures Young improved. He led the Titans to the playoffs for the first time in four years. His completion percentage jumped more than 10 points, to 62.3 -- higher than his completion average at the University of Texas, and about the N.F.L. average for quarterbacks who started at least 10 games last season. Fisher, for one, shrugs off any hint that Young stumbled in his sophomore year. ''We didn't have the touchdown numbers,'' he admits. ''We had drops, we had interceptions. But we had the wins.'' Fisher goes on to say: ''He's grown tremendously in his understanding of defenses, of the big picture. His understanding of this game is nowhere where it was when he first started. The quarterback position is so complicated. There are so many different aspects, so many subtleties people just don't see. It's footwork. It's ball position. It's vision. And he's improved in all those areas.''
 This year, Young's learning curve grows even steeper: Mike Heimerdinger, under whose tutelage McNair shared the N.F.L.'s M.V.P. award in 2003, is revamping the Titans' offense. In some ways, Young is starting over again, Heimerdinger says: ''There's new things to learn -- routes and progressions -- so hopefully you're doing the right things so you don't set that process back.'' Heimerdinger's running-quarterback pedigree runs deep; he broke into the league as a coach under his friend Mike Shanahan, who himself helped develop Steve Young's skills in San Francisco before coaching John Elway in Denver. And despite his protestations that he's not returning to Nashville (after two years in Denver and one with the New York Jets) to tutor Young one-on-one, Heimerdinger huddles again and again with Young over a couple of days on the practice field, making it clear that Vince Young -- or, more accurately, Young's running game -- is his personal project.
 ''I want him to go through his progressions,'' Heimerdinger says, ''and then have his feet talk to him and say, 'It's time to go.' I want him to play the position like other quarterbacks did last year. When it opened up in Denver last year and [Jay] Cutler took off, that was a good thing. Jeff Garcia is always on the move, and he did a great job last year of pulling it down and running. With Vince, we're definitely not going to back off the running.''
 Fisher also has no intention of trying to turn Young into something he is not. What he is, the head coach says, is an extraordinarily gifted athlete, all of whose talents must be exploited. ''When Steve McNair had taken us to the playoffs and Super Bowl, I was asked whether Steve was one of the top three quarterbacks in the league,'' Fisher says. ''My response was, 'He may not be, but I know he's one of the top three football players.' And that's what Vince is. He's a football player playing quarterback.''
 ''It's all going to be good,'' Vince Young says, sitting on an upholstered bench in front of his locker. ''The coaches are doing a good job of spreading us out, letting me use my legs on certain plays.'' As he speaks, he looks down at his legs and slaps his thighs with his big palms, twice, for emphasis, as if recruiting them into the conversation.
 Then he pauses and begins to speak again, issuing a sort of Vince Young manifesto: 
 ''All I ask of coaches is just let me be me. Let me play my game. I'm going to do everything you want me to do. Everything you have been coaching me. Everything we worked on this whole off-season. Everything you want me to do, I'm going to do all that. I'll do whatever it takes to win the ballgame. . . . If it takes being in the pocket, if there's nothing downfield, and dumping it off to the running backs, I'll do it. If it's running around, sliding, getting 10, getting 15, getting bumped out of bounds, I'll do that. Whatever it takes.
 ''But I'm going to do all that with a little bit of myself too . . . to be a little bit more successful. If they play good defense on my first two or three receivers, then the legs are going to have to become involved. . . . That's always going to be part of my game. No matter what they say -- 'He shouldn't run, he shouldn't do that' -- that is definitely always going to be part of my game.''
 Then he rises -- and rises, and rises, as if he's unfolding upward, until he's standing, a full 6-foot-5, muscled all over the place. So what does he weigh now?
 ''Two thirty-five, 240 pounds -- but I'm quick with it,'' he says, with a wide smile, and then, to illustrate, he does one quick stride in place, just like a sprinter: hands slicing down through the air, each leg pumping once. Vince Young wants to run, even when there's nowhere to go.
 A question, then: Will the N.F.L. ever totally embrace the quarterback who can run as well as pass?
 ''It never will,'' he says, shaking his head. ''That's just not the N.F.L. It never will. 
 So guys like myself gotta keep trying to make believers out of the ones who doubt. . . . If we can win a Super Bowl, if I can win a Super Bowl here with my guys, then they might change their perspective of how they think about mobile quarterbacks.''
 Still, wouldn't it be cool if some N.F.L. team just decided to build around a quarterback's legs? Just say to the quarterback, ''Go crazy''?
 Another smile crosses his incongruous baby face. ''I'm definitely going crazy this year,'' he says. ''This is my year.''
 Welcome, then, to the future.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 2008

 CORRECTION:
 An article on Page 50 this weekend about running quarterbacks in the National Football League gives outdated information about the history of injuries to Vince Young, the quarterback of the Tennessee Titans. After the magazine went to press, Young injured his knee; he will be out two to four weeks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEVON BISS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 51)
SEE THEM RUN: Left to right: Randall Cunnigham, Donovan McNabb and Michael Vick, three quarterbacks who have been known for their eagerness to carry the ball as well as throw it. The N.F.L., however, prefers the stone-footed variety.(PHOTOGRAPHS (FROM LEFT): MATTHEW STOCKMAN / ALLSPORT / GETTY IMAGES
DOUG PENSINGER / GETTY IMAGES
 JIM McISASC / GETTY IMAGES)(pg. 52) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%)

ORGANIZATION: TENNESSEE TITANS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (90%) TENNESSEE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



344 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; FREDDIE AND FANNIE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: All Grown Up and, Some Say, Unneeded

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

 BODY:
When President Lyndon Johnson needed money to pay for the Vietnam War, he turned to an obscure government agency that he could sell for cash. He transformed the Federal National Mortgage Association into a publicly traded company and sold the stock to investors. 
 Now that one-time asset has become a huge liability for the taxpayers. With the federal takeover this month of Fannie Mae and its smaller sibling, Freddie Mac, government officials say the rescue plan could ultimately cost taxpayers $100 billion or more and dramatically add to a federal deficit that has ballooned because of the war in Iraq and tax cuts. 
 The rescue plan leaves to the next Congress and president the question of how to restructure the two companies as part of a broader overhaul of the entire mortgage finance system. In light of the enormous rescue costs, are the companies really needed anymore? 
 Freddie and Fannie provide banks with fresh money to make new loans at affordable rates by buying billions of dollars of mortgages each month from commercial lenders. Some are sold to investors as mortgage-backed securities; others are kept by the companies as investments.
 No other developed country has a mortgage finance system that depends so heavily on corporations that are publicly traded yet subsidized by the government. Many European countries rely instead on what are known as covered bond markets in which banks get financing from investors to make mortgages that remain on the books of those banks. The banks thus have a powerful incentive to make sure their loans are good ones. Regulators and bankers, led by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., recently pledged to try to create a similar market in the United States. 
 Critics of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac say the system of mortgage securitization has led to significant lending abuses, because lenders profited when their loans were made and sold, whether or not the loans were repaid. In contrast to the European approach, lenders here faced no risk if their borrowers defaulted because they had already sold the loans to Freddie or Fannie.
 Another argument against the companies is that times have changed. When Fannie Mae was created during the Great Depression, banks were sharply limited from opening branches in more than one geographic region. This led to wide disparities in mortgage rates between communities in the East, which were closer to money centers, and those in other areas, which faced higher rates. With the emergence of nationwide banking, as well as the proliferation of money centers across the country, those disparities have disappeared.
 Studies by the Federal Reserve and other independent experts have also shown that Fannie and Freddie and their allies significantly exaggerated the benefits that they passed on to borrowers. The real beneficiaries of the gains from the federal subsidies went to shareholders and the corporation's executives.
 Finally, some experts say, what Freddie and Fannie do can be done more efficiently -- and with less risk to taxpayers. They point to a smaller cousin of the two companies, Ginnie Mae, which was created when Fannie went public. A government agency, Ginnie Mae has made money available for mortgages for low- and moderate-income borrowers without requiring a government bailout.
 But there are arguments for keeping the companies, though in a different form. 
 Foremost among them is America's unique infatuation with the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage. Such loans are not widely available abroad, where most mortgages have adjustable interest rates that fluctuate with changing economic times. But fixed-rate mortgages are popular in the United States because they shift the risks of future interest rate increases from the borrower to the lender. And most of them also give the borrower a kind of ''heads-I-win, tails-you-lose'' position because they are issued without prepayment penalties. So borrowers can hold them if rates rise, and refinance to lower rates when rates drop. 
 Before Fannie and Freddie came along, it would have been impossible for banks and savings associations to find financing for long- term fixed-rate mortgages in the secondary market. And some experts believe that without Freddie and Fannie, the nation would have seen a significantly greater volume of the exotic types of mortgages that have been at the core of the subprime housing crisis.
 ''The alternative argument to keeping Fannie and Freddie is that the private markets have grown up,'' said Prof. Dwight Jaffee, an expert on banking, finance and real estate at the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley. ''The argument goes that Fannie and Freddie were the training wheels that was needed. But we've learned how to ride our bikes fine and so we don't need a government subsidized program to make the markets work. If we didn't have the subprime crisis, that might have been an easier statement to make.
 ''The truthful answer is we want to keep Fannie and Freddie in some sort of a government sponsored role,'' Professor Jaffee said. ''In view of the subprime crisis, we simply can't forget about them.''
 In addition to promoting more uniform and less risky mortgages, the companies have also been able to act as a shock absorber, buying up mortgage securities at a turbulent time when no other companies would perform that function. 
 Congress has also used the companies to promote affordable housing and in communities that might not be served by the private sector. 
 Ultimately, Professor Jaffee and other experts say, the most attractive solution may be to reduce the size and influence of the two companies, which would reduce the risk of future bailouts, and eliminate the conflicts posed by the dual mission of serving both the housing markets and shareholders.
 ''We need to move to a future where the secondary mortgage market operates privately without having the whole middle of the market taken over by a huge subsidized presence,'' said Professor Richard S. Carnell, a Treasury official in the Clinton administration who is now teaching at Fordham Law School. ''Having huge firms like this owned by the government is not the way we normally do things and we have to get away from it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WAR EFFORT: Lyndon Johnson sold off Fannie Mae to help pay for the Vietnam War. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LBJ LIBRARY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (89%); MONEY CENTER BANKS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); SECURITIZATION (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FAIR LENDING (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); TAX LAW (76%); IRAQ WAR (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); BONDS (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (67%); NEWS BRIEFS (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (94%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



345 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: Amy Siegel, Andrew Sinclair

 BODY:
Amy Ilene Siegel and Andrew Isaac Sinclair are to be married on Sunday at the Park Savoy, an event space in Florham Park, N.J. Rabbi Dr. Robert B. Lennick is to officiate, with Cantor Ellen Sussman participating. 
 The bride, 34, is an associate manager in the event planning unit at the Robin Hood Foundation, an antipoverty organization in New York. She graduated from the State University at Binghamton.
 She is the daughter of Barbara A. Siegel and Fred D. Siegel of Tuxedo Park, N.Y. Her father retired as an assistant principal at Mark Twain Junior High School in Yonkers. Her mother is the director of medical records at New York Eye and Ear Infirmary in New York. 
 The bridegroom, 27, is a vice president for sales at Strategas Research Partners an economics research firm in New York. He is also a certified public accountant, and a graduate of Emory.
 He is a son of Miriam N. Sinclair and Kenneth P. Sinclair of Allentown, Pa. His mother works in Kutztown, Pa., for the RehabCare Group as a speech pathologist at Kutztown Manor, a nursing home. His father is an accounting professor at Lehigh University, where he is also the senior adviser to the dean of the college of business and economics. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (68%); ACCOUNTING (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (56%)

COMPANY: KINDRED HEALTHCARE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: KND (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS623110 NURSING CARE FACILITIES (SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES) (55%); SIC8051 SKILLED NURSING CARE FACILITIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (87%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



346 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Play Magazine; Pg. 64

LENGTH: 5041 words

HEADLINE: THE ONE LEFT BEHIND

BYLINE: By JOHN ED BRADLEY. 
John Ed Bradley is the author of ''It Never Rains in Tiger Stadium'' and several novels. He was captain of the 1979 Louisiana State University Tigers football team.

 BODY:
He came home at last, driving an old car packed with clothes. It was November 1964, and he somehow had managed to make his way back to Plain Dealing, La., without running off the road and finding a ditch. His breath smelled of cigarettes and his clothes reeked. If he looked as if he didn't care anymore, it was because he didn't. Behind him, in Alabama, where he'd been living for the last 17 years, were an ex-wife and their four young children, a well-paying job as a pharmaceutical rep and a grand house on a waterfront lot with sweeping views of Mobile Bay. Behind him, too, were losses more difficult to quantify, like his notion of the future and what it might hold. 
 He had suffered a heart attack in the last year, and yet at 45 he seemed resolutely opposed to making even the slightest adjustment to his way of living. He would drink and smoke all he wanted. 
 His name was John Joseph Pershing Holland -- Purr-shun, to those who'd loved him the longest -- and he once said that he preferred a hot beer to a cold one because it provided a better buzz. Even when he had a home with a refrigerator, he kept his beer in the trunk of his car. 
 The place where he'd grown up, Carterville, wasn't a town so much as a curve in the road halfway between Plain Dealing and Springhill, in the northwestern corner of the state. Pershing attended high school in Plain Dealing, population 1,100, and many of the town's older residents remembered him as the finest athlete they'd ever seen. If Pershing wasn't the best, they would tell you, it was only because they'd also seen his identical twin brother, Woodrow, play. 
 Together the Holland twins helped lead the Plain Dealing High football team to the state championship game in 1938, and they were also dominant performers on the school's track team. A reporter for the local newspaper, The Plain Dealing Progress, seemed to tire of having to type out their names and referred to them in his stories simply as P. and W. The biggest testament to the quality of their talent, however, might have come when a recruiter for Louisiana State University, some 300 miles away, discovered them in their remote patch of red clay and pine and offered them scholarships. 
 In Baton Rouge, the brothers became stars of the 1942 team, playing alongside Steve Van Buren, a future pro football Hall of Fame running back, and Alvin Dark, who would become a major-league shortstop and manager. Pershing and Woodrow became known as ''the Touchdown Twins'' and ''the World War Twins,'' the choice of nickname depending on which clever sportswriter happened to be writing the story. Woodrow, 6-foot-2 and 187 pounds, played end; Pershing, a shade shorter and 10 pounds heavier, was a guard.
 ''The Holland boys, these were once-in-a-lifetime athletes,'' says the 88-year-old Clark Strayhan, a lifelong resident of Plain Dealing. ''They were two of the best players on the best team in our town's history. I don't know if you'd call them movie-star handsome, but they were fine, clean-looking boys, blond and blue-eyed, and everyone liked them, especially the girls.'' 
 The years after football had been hard on Pershing. His face was puffy, his complexion rough-looking, and his pot belly stretched out his shirt. To the casual observer seeing him step out of his car to buy a bottle at a package store on Highway 3, it must have been hard to believe that such a man had ever been anything but soft and sad and drunk. But there was more than the obvious. Pershing's upper torso was checkered with scars he received in the Army while fighting in the Rhineland in December 1944. His thighs were also scarred -- ''boo-boos,'' he had called them, whenever his children asked about the patches of gnarled flesh.
 By returning to Plain Dealing in such a diminished state, Pershing promised to darken the memory of his and Woodrow's heroic pasts and to serve up a new picture of what loss can do. There was a time, not long before, when people in Plain Dealing had difficulty telling him and Woodrow apart, but a now-distant war had sent only one back to look at, and Pershing, bloated and defeated, was tired of the distinction.
 He saw Woodrow everywhere he looked, and in seeing him Pershing saw himself, or at least the boy he'd been when football and the other games they played seemed to provide a solution to every problem the world had to offer.
 It happened on March 2, 1945, while Pershing was hospitalized in England recovering from the shrapnel wounds he received three months before. It happened on an island in the Philippines that everyone would forget about as soon as Japan surrendered six months later. ''Woody got shot in the head,'' says E. P. Hudson, a high-school friend and teammate of the twins'. ''I know this because we were in the same outfit -- 21st Infantry, 24th Division -- and I was told the story a short while after he was killed. Woody was a first lieutenant and a platoon leader, and he was leading his men up a trail when he stopped and told them to take a 10-minute break. They were sitting down resting, and Woody walked on up ahead, and there were two or three Japanese waiting with a machine gun.''
 The wartime circumstances that claimed Woodrow Holland were not extraordinary, except perhaps in the mind of his twin. Before he went to the Philippines, Woodrow was stationed at an Army base in Fort Benning, Ga., where he worked as an adjutant to a general. According to Muriel Plaisance, the twins' sister, Woodrow might have remained at the administrative position and kept out of harm's way had he not felt compelled by Pershing's injury to request a different assignment. He told his family he hoped in time to catch up with his brother in Europe: Pershing had experienced combat and survived, and now it was his turn. But rather than travel to his twin's side, Woodrow was shipped out of San Francisco for the South Pacific. 
 ''Until those two boys went off to fight, people back home were calling them slackers,'' said Muriel, who died at age 81 in July, a few months after being interviewed for this story. ''Quite a few boys from home had joined up, and there was a lot said about Pershing and Woodrow going to school and playing football at L.S.U. and not doing their part. I remember one in particular who raised hell. She stayed after Mama: 'My boys are in the war, why aren't yours?' 
 ''Woodrow came home in December of '44, and Mama was so upset with him for volunteering she could've throttled him. She said: 'The one I got over there now might be dead, and they just haven't got the word to me yet. And here you are wanting to go over there and fight?' But Woody kept saying he had to go on account of Pershing being wounded, like he wanted to do something about it.''
 To honor Woodrow's sacrifice, Plain Dealing's American Legion chapter added the Holland name to its local post. In Baton Rouge, where fans of the Tigers' football team vowed never to forget him, his picture went up on the wall of one of the city's most popular restaurants. Former coaches and teammates wrote letters to the Hollands saying how much they were going to miss him.
 A couple of weeks after he was killed, Woodrow's body was moved from Lubang's municipal cemetery to an Army cemetery on Mindanao Island, but three more years would pass before his parents, Ola and W. L. Holland, could arrange for the Army to disinter his remains and ship them back to Louisiana. A young Army officer, himself a first lieutenant, accompanied Woodrow's coffin to Carterville. The family put it in the living room next to the fireplace and opened the home to visitors. One of them, Lillie Matlock, the twins' aunt, spent a long time looking at the coffin's closed lid. ''Ola, you don't know if that's your son in that box,'' she said finally. 
 ''No, Lillie, I don't,'' Ola replied. ''But it's some mother's son.''
 More than 100 people sent flowers. On the day of the burial, cars lined the road to Salem Cemetery for miles, and deputies with the local sheriff's department had to come out and help control the traffic. E. P. Hudson and other high-school teammates served as pallbearers, as did Glenn Crawford, the twins' coach at Plain Dealing High. Pershing came in from Mobile, but he seemed distant, and he avoided questions about Woodrow and the war. People tried to engage him in talk about the old days, when he and his twin tore up everything they tried. Pershing's nature had always been friendly, outgoing. But on this day he seemed to find it difficult to remember much of anything.
 At the cemetery, while sitting on a folding chair at his brother's graveside, Pershing lowered his head and let the tears run. It was a rare display, and for years to come his friends and relatives, dogged by the sight of him drunk, would revisit it as a way of understanding. A corps of riflemen fired guns, and a bugler played ''Taps'' from a place in the nearby trees. The service ended and there were long embraces and hands to shake, but it was a while before Pershing would speak about his loss, alone and at home with his mother and his sister Muriel. 
 ''I feel like half of me is dead,'' he said. 
 Perhaps to avoid an appearance of favoritism, Ola Holland never allowed as to which of the twins was born first. In an early photo, Pershing and Woodrow stand side by side in matching white coats that look like dresses, peering into W. L.'s Prince Albert tobacco can. Even then, at age 3, Woodrow is taller. More than a portrait of two boys engaged in mischief, it seems a picture of identical twin brothers who have decided they are really one and the same person.
 Ola had let her father name the boys, and he chose heroes of the Great War, which ended only a year before their birth, in 1919: Gen. John Joseph Pershing and President Woodrow Wilson. The boys inherited their size from their mother, who weighed about 50 pounds more and stood 3 inches taller than her 5-foot-7, 155-pound husband. From their father they got streamlined physiques; big, cocksure smiles; and toughness so true it had them believing they could never lose. 
 W. L. stood for William Luther. He farmed cotton, corn and ribbon cane and scratched up work as a carpenter when what he grew didn't pay enough. There was an oil field near Carterville, and the Hollands took in boarders, one time as many as 19 roughnecks who slept on cots on the screened-in back porch. 
 In the late 1920s, the family moved to Texas and eventually bought a small farm near Harlingen, down in the Rio Grande Valley near the state's southernmost tip and the Mexican border. W. L. hoped to make a better living there, but Texas quickly proved to be no kinder than Louisiana had been. A hailstorm wiped out his beans before he could get them out of the ground. He stood in the field and cried in anger and frustration, then told his daughters -- Kitty was the other one -- to gather the hailstones in a bucket and put them in the icebox.
 In late August 1933, Woodrow, then 14, was stricken with a mysterious ailment that left him paralyzed from the neck down. Suddenly, he found himself unable to get out of bed. Did Pershing expect the same fate to find him? He wasn't the kind of boy to give voice to fear of any variety, but he did spend a good share of time standing by his brother's bedside, staring down at him with a look of helplessness. Doctors performed two spinal taps on Woodrow and diagnosed him with Guillain-Barre syndrome, an autoimmune disorder that attacks the nervous system. Ola fed him his meals and kept him and the bed clean. Woodrow spent nearly three weeks not knowing if he'd be paralyzed for the rest of his life, when early one morning a woman stopped by on her way to church. ''This boy is going to turn over,'' she said with enough sincerity to make everyone in the house believe her.
 The Hollands, Baptists all, were willing to attend a Methodist service in a pinch; but the lady, who lived down the road, was a Christian Scientist. They listened to her remonstrations in silence, impressed by her conviction but afraid to hope too hard lest they be denied.
 Later that day, Ola was out in the yard feeding the chickens when she heard Woodrow screaming. She ran back in and found that he'd turned over on his side.
 Texas wasn't all misery for the Hollands. W. L., in particular, argued for making the move permanent. Although he'd earned little money farming and he'd seen one of his twin boys briefly paralyzed, he enjoyed hunting the local deer enough to make a case for staying. Ola finally convinced him that it was time to head back home. 
 ''I can still remember the first day Woody and Pershing showed up at our school,'' says Clark Strayhan, some 74 years later. ''I remember because it was quite a sight to see twin boys like that. You see twins every now and then, but these two were unusual. We'd have recess, and they liked to play rough -- rougher than the rest of us knew how to play.'' 
 Like most siblings, the twins had occasional grievances with each other that escalated into fights. Even though Woodrow was the superior athlete, Pershing usually could get the better of him. One day, Pershing objected to his brother's description of a female schoolmate, and they started throwing blows in the living room before moving outside. Woodrow grabbed a two-by-four from under the porch, and Pershing wrestled it away before he could hit him with it. ''That's just how it was between those two,'' Muriel Plaisance said. ''But let somebody else pick a fight with one of them -- it wouldn't have been with just the one of them, I can promise you that much.''
 The boys generally wore matching outfits: starched white dress shirts and khaki pants. But their choices weren't motivated by a desire to project a unified appearance. Plain white shirts and khakis were all Ola and W. L. could afford. ''Pershing was the more popular of the two,'' says Maurice McCall, 85, a friend of the twins' from childhood. ''He was more personable than Woody, and he could be very charming. I'd say he was more the leader. On Saturday they'd go to the Fox Theatre in town, and people would be swirling around them. Pershing and his brother dated so many different girls in Plain Dealing I couldn't begin to name them all.''
 The twins graduated in 1938, but shortly before their commencement ceremony Coach Crawford and the school's principal, Felix G. Phillips, visited the family and prevailed upon W. L. to return the boys to Plain Dealing High for another year. If they came back, the men argued, the school had a shot at winning the Class B state title. Furthermore, L.S.U. was likely to sign them, and that meant Ola and W. L. wouldn't have to pay for their educations. The Hollands didn't have any trouble making up their minds. 
 The next season, Plain Dealing went undefeated in the regular season and won a playoff for the North Louisiana championship, only to lose, 3-0, in the state title game against Lagrange High of Lake Charles. To undermine any argument that they were going to school for football only, the twins attended a few classes each day and quietly sat with the rest of the students, textbooks open. By track season that spring, Pershing and Woodrow were 20 years old. This, however, did not keep them from going out for the team, and it did not stop Woodrow from setting school, conference and state records in the javelin. Ola piled their medals in cigar boxes.
 June came, and W. L. bought each of the boys a footlocker for the trip to Baton Rouge. 
 They enrolled in the College of Agriculture, as agronomy majors, and scheduled all of their classes together. They still combed their hair the same way and often dressed alike. They spoke with the same North Louisiana accent. Even their handwriting was nearly identical. In some classes where Woodrow was strong, Pershing showed weakness. In others where Pershing got by with ease, Woodrow had more difficulty. To their friends it seemed they were two parts of a whole, rather than two wholes with matching parts. Teammates had to pay attention to distinguish one from the other. ''I could do it, but it wasn't as easy as you'd think,'' says Fred ''Skinny'' Hall, who joined the L.S.U. squad a year after the Hollands. 
 The twins were reserves for two years before they finally saw playing time in 1941. The next year, both Pershing and Woodrow became starters, and even though he'd worked with them for more than three years, Coach Bernie Moore still found it difficult to tell them apart. Most of the time he called Pershing ''Pete'' and Woodrow ''Repeat,'' but there were days when he couldn't keep that straight.
 ''Didn't Woody play end?'' says Alvin Dark, 86, the former Major League baseball manager who was a tailback on L.S.U.'s 1942 team. ''Yes, I remember Woody, all right. And wasn't Pershing older? No, of course he wouldn't have been older if they were twins. Well, I'm just as sorry as can be. This was so long ago, and things get tough when you're 102. I just remember throwing Woody passes over and over at practice. Down-and-outs. Big blond guy. We must've spent a lot of time together. And didn't Pershing get killed in the war? That's what I always thought. And then Woody ended up in Mobile working as a traveling salesman. You see, you're telling me I have it wrong, it's the other way around, but I always thought different. So it was Woody who died? Why, that's the saddest thing I ever heard.''
 L.S.U. lost other former athletes in the war, including the onetime quarterback Young Bussey, who played a year with the Chicago Bears after college, and the football and baseball player Alex Box, who was honored posthumously by the school when it named its baseball park after him. Still others returned to the campus too disabled to play again, among them a highly regarded back named Sulcer Harris, who was ''so shot up he was through,'' says Al ''Rusty'' Heroman, who was a freshman in 1946. 
 In the spring of '46, when veterans began returning to school in droves, those who went out for football made a point of avoiding any discussion about the war. ''Nobody talked about it,'' says Hall, who spent five and a half months in Japan during the occupation. ''We never did. It was tough to get over losing your buddies, but it's amazing what you can overcome when you're young and you're given no choice.'' 
 By August, some 350 players tried out for the team, despite the fact that coaches had only 54 spots on the varsity roster to fill. Pershing Holland was one of those who wanted back in. After being discharged from the Army in July, he had moved back to Baton Rouge and enrolled at the school as a graduate student. ''Every day at practice you'd see more and more of the veterans drop by the wayside,'' Heroman says. ''While they were in the service, they'd dreamed about playing football again, and I suppose that dream had helped them survive, but when they got back out there they were older and out of shape, and they just couldn't cut it anymore.''
 Pershing was one of 10 guards that Coach Moore elected to keep. The official roster listed him at 6-foot-2 and 202 pounds and gave his age as 25, although in fact he was 27, the oldest player on the squad. It was his fifth year as an L.S.U. player. Because he hadn't seen varsity action in 1939 and 1940, he still had a year of eligibility left. True to form, Pershing never mentioned his Purple Heart, two Bronze Stars or other medals. They might have represented heroism, but they also were symbols of loss, and he had had enough of that. The war had taken Woodrow away from him. If only for the season, football would bring him back. 
 A photo in L.S.U.'s souvenir game programs from 1946 shows Pershing coming out of his stance, his face weathered, eyes squinting and intent with purpose. Rather than appear tough or menacing, his posture suggests vulnerability, as if he has already taken enough. He barely resembles the handsome, smiling boy depicted in the 1942 programs. In that photo, he wears a suit and tie and poses with hands crossed over a raised knee. It's the same joyful pose as his twin, who appears opposite Pershing at the bottom-right corner of the page. 
 ''I can still remember seeing Pete in the showers after practice and these scars he had all over,'' says Charles Cusimano, who was an 18-year-old sophomore guard in 1946. ''A man like that, he doesn't need to tell you where he's been, you can see it on his body. Pete never talked about Woody's death or what happened in the war, and I never asked. But I always believed he came back and played for his brother that year. Was he reaching back for what they had together? I'm sure he was.'' 
 Cusimano says Pershing never got in good enough shape to play much that year, but he did serve as a team captain for two games, including the one with Arkansas in the 1947 Cotton Bowl, which resulted in a scoreless tie. Among his teammates were quarterback Y. A. Tittle, the future N.F.L. star, and Walter ''Piggy'' Barnes, a tackle who would become a popular Hollywood character actor and appear in movies with John Wayne and Clint Eastwood. At the end of the season, Pershing's parents sent Coach Bernie Moore a ham in gratitude, and he wrote back that it was the best he'd ever eaten and that their son, now 28, was ''certainly a fine young man.'' There was no mention of Woodrow.
 After the spring semester, Pershing accepted a sales position with the American Cyanamid Company. His job would have him selling drugs to veterinarians in the Deep South, and when he landed in Mobile to begin work, he did so as John Holland. The name change became a point of curiosity to friends and relatives back home in Louisiana, who still hadn't adjusted to hearing him called Pete. Was Pershing trying to further disassociate himself from his prewar identity? Was he trying to begin again without the memory of his past as a twin? Whatever the reason, he would stick with the name for the rest of his life. ''Nobody in Mobile called Daddy Pershing or Pete,'' says Leigh Holland, the second of his four children. ''Mama called him John. My aunts and uncles called him John, and so did his friends. It still sounds strange to me to hear him called Pershing or Pete, because that just wasn't who he was to us.''
 His L.S.U. teammates have no memory of him drinking when he was on the team. ''Hell, no,'' Cusimano says. ''Pete was a disciplined, orderly person. I can still see how he kept his locker. His shoes were always placed here, his socks there. He was meticulous in everything he did.''
 When told about Pershing's battles with alcoholism, another former teammate, Joe Giacone, was quiet for a moment. ''Are we talking about the same fellow?'' he said.
 Pershing's job typically put him on the road five days a week. He left Mobile on Monday morning and didn't return home until Friday afternoon. Hanging on a clothes rod over the back seat were suits, slacks and never fewer than 15 starched white dress shirts, three for each day he planned to be away. The car had no air-conditioning, and by the end of the week the shirts were all limp, wrinkled and sweat-stained. He stayed in mom-and-pop hotels, ate most of his meals alone and called home from pay phones when he could. If he had women other than his wife, Peggy, his family didn't know about it. 
 He lost his job after several years, and he and Peggy, facing foreclosure, had to give up the house on Bay Front Road and move to a modest rambler in a different part of town. ''I remember loud shouting, Mom and Dad arguing,'' Leigh Holland says. ''Mom would load us kids in the car and take off. He left bruises on her arm, and something tells me he gave her a black eye. She had pictures taken at her lawyer's office, which I saw later, and that would've been the end for her.''
 His sister Muriel and her family vacationed in Mobile in 1962. ''He was trying to sober up,'' she said, ''but after three days he had the D.T.'s so bad he couldn't stop shaking. We kept pouring coffee down his throat, and then we gave him bloody marys without the alcohol. I felt so sorry for him, because nothing we did helped.'' 
 Peggy's divorce from Pershing was finalized in November 1964, and days later he loaded his car and left for Louisiana, taking ''everything he owned that mattered to him except for his old L.S.U. things,'' says Leigh, referring to her father's college game balls, scrapbook and other football memorabilia. ''I never did understand why Daddy would leave those things behind. They must've meant so much to him. But then he left us behind, didn't he?'' 
 Having no place else to go, Pershing moved back to the old family home. His father had died nine years before, but his mother still lived there. Ola tolerated him as long as she could, which turned out to be about a month. One night, in a desperate phone call, she told Muriel that she'd caught him rifling through her papers. He was trying to steal her money, she complained. 
 Muriel offered to take him in, and Pershing moved to Shreveport, about 40 miles to the south. On more than a few occasions, Muriel and her husband, John, returned home from work and found him at the kitchen table typing out resumes. The Plaisances had three sons, and only the one that Muriel had named Woody got along with Pershing; the other two fought with him constantly. One day when he was home alone, Pershing went through the cabinets and found the bottle of whiskey that Muriel had put away for special occasions. He finished it off, then went to bed with a cigarette and caught the mattress on fire. 
 Of the twins, Pershing had been Muriel's favorite, her real big brother, but she didn't recognize him anymore, and when she considered his behavior, she came to a vague understanding that he meant to drink himself to death. 
 John told him he had to find some other place to live. Pershing, who'd finally landed a job selling cemetery plots, moved into a boardinghouse. 
 ''Everybody knew what Pershing Holland's problem was,'' says Davis McCall, a contemporary of the twins' who still lives in Plain Dealing. ''It was the war and Woody. I ran into him three times after he moved back, and he was inebriated every time. We'd always remembered him as a great athlete and a neat guy, but all of a sudden he's home again and he's this terrible alcoholic. I don't have to tell you what that looks like.''
 Three months after his return, Ola checked into the hospital in Springhill to have her gallbladder removed. The surgery seemed a success, but five days later she was dead from a bowel obstruction and other complications. The family buried her next to Woodrow at Salem Cemetery, and Pershing abandoned the boardinghouse and reclaimed the house in Carterville. He was unemployed once again, but at least there was no rent to pay. Each month the government sent him $143 as a pension for his military service, and he mailed $100 to Peggy for child support and kept the rest for beer and cigarettes. 
 Muriel came up from Shreveport and checked on him now and then. He had trashed the house, and he kept dogs penned on the back porch. The place smelled so bad you wanted to cover your mouth with the tail of your shirt as soon as you pushed the front door open. One of her sons offered to stay with Pershing and look after him, but Pershing pointed a rifle at the boy after they argued and the boy moved out. 
 To chew up the hours, Pershing went fishing. Other days he drove to Plain Dealing and took a spin through town. His old school had burned down some years before, and a new structure stood in its place, but the football stadium where he and Woodrow had played was the same. He saw the wooden bleachers standing empty, the field quiet. Football had taken him as far as the Polo Grounds in New York City, where L.S.U. played Fordham in 1942. And while the sport had given him a certain unshakable conviction that he could do great things with his life, it had not prepared him for a future in which he battled the constant feeling that his soul had been carved in two.
 He didn't make a habit of it, but he visited Salem Cemetery often enough to get noticed. He parked near the gates and walked over to his brother's grave. Visitors saw him standing there, alone amid the stone plaques and tablets, and they tried in vain to measure an emptiness so vast that no amount of yearning could fill it. 
 ''If not for the war,'' Muriel Plaisance said, ''there's no telling what might've become of those two boys. And some days I'll get to remembering how they were when they were still young and things were good. The other day, for instance, I remembered how, in Harlingen, there were these canals that ran out in the fields, and the water that ran in them was used to irrigate the crops. We used to go over to this one canal that was by our house, and we'd swim there or else take a bath. The twins were good swimmers. They'd swim underwater, holding their breath, and go over to where the lily pads grew on the other side, and they'd hide there in the lilies. And then Mama would come out and start looking for them. She'd get in such a panic, thinking they'd drowned. And she'd start calling for them and stepping up and down that canal. And then all of a sudden they'd come up out of the water together and scare her, and of course Mama didn't think it was one bit funny. She'd be aggravated. But they'd just keep on laughing, because that's how it was between them. If one had the other, everything in this world was all right.'' 
 Pershing died on Aug. 16, 1968, at the V.A. Hospital in Shreveport. He was 49 years old. They buried him next to Ola and one plot over from his twin, and the Army gave him a plaque almost identical to the one it had given Woodrow. Pershing's autopsy names infarction of the left ventricular walls, coronary artery occlusions and arteriosclerosis as the causes of death. He's all but forgotten except by his relatives, his friends from Plain Dealing and the handful of surviving octogenarians who played football with him at L.S.U. six decades ago. They still argue that it wasn't a bad heart or hardened arteries that killed him, but rather a thing more difficult to comprehend, and for Pershing that was a life without his brother.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Pershing Holland, left, and Woodrow Holland as high-school senior. At right, a Louisiana State University football from 1942, when they were co-captains. (pg.MM64 and 65)
A SHARED LIFE: Mementos form the Hollands' days in Plain Dealin, La., and at college, including Woodrow's L.S.U. sweater. (STYLING BY SARAH A. SLIVEY) (pg.MM67)
 THE NEWS: This March 1945 telegram from the War Department to W.L. Holland confirmed that Woodrow had been killed in action. (pg.MM68) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VICTOR SCHRAGER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (89%); CHILDREN (78%); ATHLETES (77%); TRACK & FIELD (72%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (69%); BASEBALL (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (68%); RUNNING (57%)

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



347 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 4927 words

HEADLINE: REALLY, REALLY, BIG IN BRITAIN

BYLINE: By ED ZUCKERMAN

 BODY:
I regret to inform you that Katie Price plans to put her removed breast implants up for auction on eBay with a minimum bid of one million pounds; that her reality show is a continuing success on British television; that her three autobiographies, all written before she was 30, have been No. 1 best sellers; that her endorsed product lines of lingerie, jewelry and perfume are about to be joined by housewares and baby clothes -- and that her original renown springs not from any distinction as an actress, dancer, singer or ... anything, but from a career as a topless model.
 In the future, everyone will be famous for blah blah blah -- you've heard that one -- and now here is yet another account of someone who is famous for being famous, albeit one who has transcended the genre. It's not too late to stop reading and turn to the article about wind farms.
 Still here? Don't blame me, then. You were warned. 
 I first met Katie Price in Los Angeles, where she traveled last spring to have some repair work done on the teeth and breasts she had fixed there a few months before (the nose job was fine). Her new tooth veneers didn't feel right, she said -- ''It feels like I've got electricity going through them'' -- and the breast surgeon hadn't done a satisfactory job. ''I don't think he's sewn them enough here,'' she explained on a British talk show in April, pointing to the spot. ''They sort of go under my armpits a bit. . . . When you go and pay all of that money, and you go to what you think is the best doctor, you expect a good job.'' This breast operation was actually her fourth, and it was the first reduction, Price having decided last year that it was time to have breasts ''smaller than my head.''
 For my meeting with Price, I was directed to a large gated house in the San Fernando Valley, where she was staying with her husband, Peter Andre, an English pop singer, and one of their children, Princess Tiaamii, then 10 months old, who was suffering from chicken pox. Also in attendance were Price's manager, Claire Powell, and several of Powell's employees, including a young man and woman who would be filming our interview for the reality show ''Katie & Peter: The Next Chapter.'' Nearly everything Price does is filmed for her reality show. I had to consent to appear on camera before I entered the house.
 Successfully restraining myself from breaking into song, I walked into a sitting room, notebook in hand, to meet the woman recently ranked (by The Guardian newspaper) as the 83rd-most-powerful media figure in Britain, below Rupert Murdoch but above Andrew Lloyd Webber. She was sitting on a sofa holding Princess Tiaamii, who wore a disposable diaper and a pink bow in her hair. Price was wearing a bathing-suit top under a see-through tank top, blue microshorts and pink Uggs. Her makeup was heavy and her tan unnaturally deep, but what stood out most was the disarming manner that is a cornerstone of her popular appeal. She is brash and plain-spoken, with working-class accent and diction; her fans, who nowadays are mostly women, frequently say how ''real'' she is, a point Price takes pride in. ''I am real,'' she said, adding, with a self-aware laugh, ''well, part of me's real, apart from me assets.'' 
 Her husband came in, said a pleasant hello and took Princess Tiaamii away, and Price settled in for the interview. ''You can ask me any question,'' she said. ''It won't insult me. You can ask anything.''
 But what did I not already know? From her autobiographies, I knew she grew up in modest means in Brighton, the daughter of a devoted mother and a father who left the family when Katie was 3, and aspired early on to be a ''glamour model'' (which, in England, is a woman who appears semiclad in lingerie catalogs and the pages of ''lad mags''). After some initial rejection, she became a Page 3 girl, one of the topless girls next door featured daily in the tabloid The Sun, under the name Jordan, by which she is still best known to her male fans. Two years later, at the age of 20 (despite the urgings of Sun readers, who, in a poll, voted against it), Price elected to have the first of three operations that transformed her breasts, which in their natural state had been attractive enough to earn her a living, to a startlingly large size 32DD. This was the end of her work for The Sun, which had a no-silicone policy, but the attendant publicity put her in demand elsewhere. She became a regular on the London club scene, frequently appearing in skimpy outfits and an alcoholic haze, which led to even more publicity. In 2003, she was invited to participate in a reality show called ''I'm a Celebrity . . . Get Me Out of Here!'' a ''Survivor''-type affair in which faded and B-list celebrities were stranded in an Australian rain forest. (One member of Price's cohort was the former Johnny Rotten.) Here Price's team spirit (she cheerfully ate maggots to earn food for her team) and personality took center stage away from her breasts, and people liked what they saw. Here also she met Andre, whose singing career was then in eclipse, and they fell in love -- mostly on camera -- which attracted more interest and fame and led to the current series of reality shows, product endorsements, autobiographies, a series of ghostwritten novels (also all best sellers in the U.K.) and a substantial and growing fortune.
 From her autobiographies I also knew more about Price's intimate life than I know about anyone else's, including my own immediate family's. I knew she was sexually molested at 6, that a scummy photographer tried to drug her with adulterated milkshakes at 13, that she dropped out of school at 16 to move in with a 26-year-old man who was violent and possessive and had pimples on his rear and that her next boyfriend was unfaithful and unpleasant and had a wart on his testicles that she found unsightly. I knew about her abortion and miscarriages and thoughts of suicide. And I knew all about her unhappy relationship with a Trinidadian soccer star named Dwight Yorke, the father of her first child, Harvey, who was born with medical conditions that have made him nearly blind and autistic and unusually large (now 6, he weighs nearly 100 pounds; Price herself weighs about 110). Here Price's personal and professional lives converged, since her apparent devotion to Harvey and the visually striking photographs of them together -- the petite white woman with enormous breasts cradling the very large disabled black baby -- caused people who previously regarded her as a ''slapper'' whose only talent was displaying her breasts to look again with new interest and sympathy.
 With all that in print, one thing I needed to ask Price was whether I could rely on her books, which she did not write herself, for accuracy. The voice on the page sounded like the person sitting next to me on the sofa, but were the facts correct? She told me yes.
 ''The autobiographies I've done, I literally speak into a Dictaphone,'' she said. ''They go off and write it up. The only difference they might add in, for example, is 'It was a sunny day, and the daffodils were just coming up.' Of course they add them bits in. But other than that it is me, me to a T.''
 Which led directly to my bigger question: Why her? There have been thousands of Page 3 girls, and most have never been heard from again after they put their shirts back on, let alone progressed to running marketing and authorial empires. Why Katie Price?
 Her reply was oddly unresponsive. 
 ''What was funny,'' she began, ''is I remember they had a competition in The Sun -- 'Rear of the Year' -- where they wanted people to send in pictures of their bums. I did that, got a letter back, 'Sorry, you're not what we're looking for this time.' ''
 She went on to tell the story of her initial success -- how The Sun finally consented to publish photos of her half-naked. Which was so off-point that her manager finally stepped in to answer the question. 
 ''It was Kate's personality that stood her away from everyone else,'' Powell offered.
 ''I've always been cheeky,'' Price agreed. And she finally came round to answering the question herself, sort of. ''I don't know. I think it's just luck. If I knew the answer, don't you think I'd get like 10 Jordans now?''
 I was promised another meeting with Price, but three months went by before it could be arranged. At one point her management company sent me its ''standard contract'' to sign, which declared that ''the interview and feature must be a positive piece.'' I replied that The New York Times would probably not agree to that, and the request was withdrawn.
 As the weeks passed, I realized I didn't need to be actually interviewing Katie Price -- or anyone -- to continue my reporting. I typed her name into Google Alerts, instructing the service to spot new Web postings mentioning her and forward them to me. (I didn't have the stamina -- or life expectancy -- to do a thorough retroactive search. Googling ''Katie Price'' yields nearly five million results. Googling ''Jordan'' yields 280 million, but some of those are about the basketball player or the country.) Thereafter, every time I turned on my computer I found links to publications and gossipy Web sites I'd never heard of. Most were British, but some came from the old empire (Australia and India); a news service aimed at people of Indian origin in Thailand seemed to be following Price with special devotion. 
 In my morning e-mail I found:
 ''Model Jordan Is Girls' Size Hero'' (Price recruits normal-size women, including fat ones, to model her lingerie line).
 ''Peter Andre Goes Blonde'' (husband dyes his hair).
 ''Prince Charles Lost for Words as He Meets Jordan'' (at a charity benefit show). 
 ''Katie Price Makes Her Dressage Debut at Hickstead'' (a lifelong horse lover, Price has taken up the formal equestrian sport of dressage).
 ''Cherie Beats Jordan'' (a memoir by Cherie Blair, wife of the former prime minister, supplants Price's third autobiography as No. 1 nonfiction best seller).
 ''Jordan and Peter Andre Buy $:2.5 Million Castle.''
 And: ''Katie Price Takes the Family Shopping at Kitson.''
 This was all vaguely amusing, somewhat informative and an easier way to report a story than actually going somewhere or talking to someone. But then, in mid-May, my Google Alert fetched a story from the English weekly News of the World headlined ''Butchered.'' It featured close-up color photos of Price's bare breasts (taken while she was sunbathing in Australia) that showed a ridge of dark tissue below her right nipple. ''Shocking new pictures reveal how breast ops have left Jordan scarred for life'' ran the subhead.
 Yuck. Maybe there were some advantages to old-style reporting after all.
 None of these reports emanated from American publications; Price to this day is largely unknown here. Her reality series did run on the E! network in 2007, but she barely dented the national consciousness, which might seem odd, given that our British cousins are, as a nation, endlessly obsessed with her slightest move (''Katie Price Fined for Using Mobile Whilst Driving'' -- Daily Mirror, 6/6/08). 
 These differing receptions may be ascribed, however, to one often-overlooked difference between the two nations. We are accustomed to think of England as more genteel -- and it does have its tea parties with the queen -- but it also features a level of sexual content in mainstream media that would be out of bounds here. Witness the daily topless photo in The Sun, a major national newspaper, where Price began her climb to success. And it is unlikely that a reality show on American television would present an episode like one recent broadcast of ''Katie & Peter: The Next Chapter'' wherein the happy couple paid a nostalgic visit to the hotel bathroom in Australia where she first performed oral sex on him; she mimed the activity to make clear what happened where. It was all played out in good fun, with the deadpan humor and sidelong glances to the camera that often make the show genuinely entertaining -- Lucy and Ricky, hypersexualized.
 The next time I saw Price in the flesh, so to speak, was at a film studio in London, where she and Andre were shooting a promo for the reality show. Price was wearing a tight turquoise dress and orange spike heels, a look modeled after Las Vegas circa late Rat Pack. The script called for her to crawl on the hood of a 1958 Cadillac and wash the windshield with a soapy sponge while Andre, in a riveting lime green suit, sat behind the wheel sipping a cup of coffee. ''I feel ridiculous,'' he said as he prepared to take his position. He was speaking to a camera filming him for the reality show, the promo for the reality show becoming fodder for the reality show.
 Price's life in London was not always so tightly choreographed. This is where she first sought fame, traveling up on the train from Brighton with her mother to meet a modeling agent and, a few years later, flaunting her enlarged breasts in the nightclubs. ''Before she was married, when she was Jordan, she was very much the single girl around town,'' Jessica Callan, a former gossip reporter for The Daily Mirror, told me. ''She'd get drunk, fall over, end up with inappropriate men, just the kind of celebrity we liked to write about. As a gossip columnist, you were thrilled when you found out Jordan would show up: 'Brilliant. There'll be some mayhem.' ''
 Eventually, Callan had a close encounter with Price that gave her a more sympathetic view. While covering a sports-awards weekend in Monte Carlo that Price was attending with her boyfriend at the time, Dwight Yorke, Callan was startled to be accosted by Price herself, demanding: ''You lot are always so mean to me. Why?'' Within minutes, however, Price, needing a friend, invited Callan to hang with her. Soon Price was discussing intimate details of her unhappy relationship with Yorke and recruiting Callan to zip her in and out of her skintight silver cat suit when she had to go to the bathroom. (''I really hoped The Mirror was insured if I punctured one of her implants,'' Callan wrote.)
 This, at least, is Callan's version of the story, which was splashed all over The Daily Mirror and later published in her memoir, ''Wicked Whispers.'' In Price's first autobiography, ''Being Jordan,'' she claims that Callan deceived her by concealing the fact that she was a reporter. Both versions agree, however, that during two evenings of drinking and dancing, Yorke ignored Price, flirted with other women in front of her and invited Callan herself to join him and a friend in a sexual threesome. Callan ended up seeing Price not as the ''shambolic'' party girl she'd thought her to be but as ''a very sad, vulnerable character.''
 Although Price during her Jordan period may sometimes have appeared clueless, she was learning that she could use the press's interest in her to her own advantage. It was a simple trade-off -- access for publicity -- but not one that is universally recognized. ''It's largely common sense, but very few celebrities have done it,'' Max Clifford, a veteran English public-relations man whose clients include Simon Cowell, told me. ''There's nothing dumb about Katie Price. She has a very good instinct for what works for her and what works for them.''
 Whether by instinct, cunning or luck, Price's appearance on ''I'm a Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here!'' swayed the tone of her press coverage as it increased the volume. ''On 'I'm a Celebrity,' she came across with qualities the British public liked,'' Clifford explained. ''She was down-to-earth, someone who didn't make a fuss no matter what they asked her to do -- put her hand in a basket full of spiders or whatever it was. Most celebrities would be whingeing and whining.''
 Callan agreed. ''She was a very bright girl,'' she said. ''A lot of celebrities kind of forgot the cameras were on them all the time. But she never did. It took some doing to be that focused.''
 Not coincidentally, ''I'm a Celebrity'' marked her transformation from Jordan to Katie Price. After the series, she replaced her old manager with Powell, who redirected her activities in more varied and wholesome directions. ''I said, 'If you're just going to carry on being Jordan, when you're 30 there's going to be all these other girls getting their boobs out, and what's going to be different about you?' '' Powell told me. As Jordan, among Price's proudest achievements were ''my Jordan stare,'' she wrote in her first autobiography. Also, ''I'm very proud of my pout, which I achieve by pretending I'm blowing bubbles very gently.'' As Katie Price, she was photographed by David Bailey for Vogue wearing Lanvin.
 The Katie Price phenomenon soon took on a life of its own. She became one of those people who ''you don't know why you know about them, but you know they were shopping for a quart of milk at Tesco because they were snapped by paparazzi,'' as Jenny McCartney, a columnist for The Sunday Telegraph, put it. When Price married Peter Andre, she arrived at the wedding site (a rented castle) in a pumpkin-shaped glass carriage drawn by six white horses with pink plumes and liveried footmen; OK! magazine paid a rumored $3.5 million for the exclusive right to cover the affair. (As a result, the pumpkin carriage's glass walls had to be covered with pink drapes so helicopter-borne photographers sent by rival publications couldn't steal a shot.) Katie Price was everywhere, but why? ''There's something gone a bit wrong in Britain,'' McCartney says. ''An extraordinary celebrity culture is eating up our other culture. She's a symptom of the phenomenon and has managed to exploit the phenomenon expertly.'' 
 Mark Booth, Price's publisher at Century, a Random House imprint, bemoans the trend while profiting from it. ''When I was growing up, the big celebrities were people like Scott of the Antarctic and Sir Edmund Hillary,'' he said. ''They were celebrities because they did fantastic things or were brilliant at what they did. British celebrity's not about that at all now. It was about people who were extraordinary. Now it's about people who are ordinary.''
 This is, of course, a phenomenon we are familiar with on this side of the Atlantic, where the stars of prosaic reality shows grace the covers of weekly magazines with headlines about their love lives and cellulite. But if Paris Hilton published a memoir, would it be a No. 1 best seller? If she published three, would they all be? What is different about the British and Katie Price?
 That little matter of class.
 Discussing the success of the Katie Price oeuvre, Booth contrasted it with novels like ''Bridget Jones's Diary,'' which once were all the rage but now seem to him -- and the public, he argued -- ''precious and mannered, whereas perhaps paradoxically, and one would say paradoxically because she admits she doesn't write them, [Price's] books are very authentic. They reflect back to British working-class women their lives in an authentic way, where chick lit doesn't.'' Price's plucky hard-working heroines (which include herself) struggle through lives filled with lousy boyfriends, low-paying jobs, single parenthood -- and lots of sex. When they persevere to triumph in business and love, women have something to cheer about.
 In real life, Price still encounters the occasional obstacle. In late July, she paid 6,000 pounds for a table at a high-society polo event (the Cartier Polo International), but she was denied admission, and her money was returned. The organizers said that there had been a misunderstanding, that the tables were sold out, but Price's manager said she was told that ''Cartier didn't want Katie there.'' The press quoted ''insiders'' as saying Price was considered too ''chavvy'' (''chav'' being British slang for one is who is common or vulgar or, perhaps, white trash). Price, who has actually played polo, responded in an opinion article in The Times of London: ''It's pure snobbery. . . . [Horses] should be for everyone -- little girls, glamour girls, working-class girls like me.'' The Times itself editorialized in Price's favor: ''Class division disfigures this country. . . . By challenging polo snobbery she has struck a blow.''
 All of which, of course, endeared Price even more to her admirers. ''I reckon,'' Mark Booth said, ''that in some weird way, Katie Price has taken the place of Princess Diana in the hearts of working-class women.'' I could not find anyone else in England who thought that was true, but there is no denying that Price has struck a deep female chord. During her years as Jordan, her fans were overwhelmingly male; now, according to Price's manager, those visiting her Web sites have shifted from 90 percent male to 85 percent female. (''No single heterosexual male buys any of her books,'' Booth says, with slight exaggeration.) 
 ''Some women have bought into her story of female empowerment,'' Su Holmes told me. Holmes, a professor of film and television studies at the University of East Anglia who writes about celebrity culture, is a skeptic. So are Maddy Coy and Maria Garner of the Child and Woman Abuse Studies Unit at London Metropolitan University, who recently delivered an academic paper on the subject of Katie Price. ''Jordan [is] regarded as embodying feminism, based on economic success and shrewd business sense,'' they wrote. But when ''working class women . . . cash in with their bodies, this is not feminism but enterprise capitalism.''
 Coy and Garner pointed with some alarm to ''evidence of a rise in cosmetic surgery and suggestions that young women increasingly view glamour modeling and lap/pole dancing as attractive career options, embedded in the discourse of empowerment.'' There have been reports in the British media of hard-pressed mothers taking multiple jobs so they can afford breast implants for their teenage daughters who want to have careers like Price's. Price's own sister, Sophie, had her breasts enlarged when she turned 18 this year and now works as a seminude frontwoman for a British television channel and Web site featuring hardcore pornography.
 Price herself has left that kind of thing far behind -- or far enough. She recently turned 30, has three children and keeps most of her clothes on most of the time. ''She'll be slowly turned into a national institution,'' Jenny McCartney predicted. ''She'll be like your roguish old aunt.''
 When Price's latest ghostwritten novel (''Angel Uncovered,'' the story of a working-class girl turned glamour model whose marriage to a soccer star hits a rough patch) was released in July, women lined up for hours to see their idol at bookstores around the country. ''Glamour queen Katie Price brought Chester city center to a standstill as hundreds turned out to see her,'' reported The Chester Chronicle. ''Staff were forced to shut the whole store as hundreds of people, mostly teenage girls, crowded around the entrance while queues stretched as far as Tesco on Frodsham Street.''
 Other authors do not share the affection. When someone noticed last fall that Price's second ghostwritten novel had outsold the entire Booker Prize short list, there was much wailing about the death of literature. This year, when one of her children's books (''My Pony Care Book'') was nominated for a British Book Award, the Society of Authors was flooded with complaints from its members. (This was Price's second nomination for a British Book Award; in 2005, she lost to Bill Clinton in the biography category.) Joanne Harris, author of ''Chocolat,'' groused in The Times that the awards ''should be open only to people who write books, not to somebody who lends their name to a book, or who would have written a book if they had time but didn't.'' (Mark Booth, Price's publisher, defended his author somewhat breezily: ''I don't see what the fuss is. It's no different to the way the recordings of the Monkees were put together.'')
 Unfazed by the protests, Price showed up at the awards ceremony in April looking elegant in a low-cut dress. Oddly, it was J. K. Rowling, whose dress also swept low, who had a wardrobe malfunction and had to struggle to keep her bodice up. Price didn't win -- the honor went to ''Horrid Henry and the Abominable Snowman'' -- but she did not mope. She showed up the next day at Harrods to introduce ''Katie Price's Mermaids and Pirates,'' her new series of board books for toddlers. She dressed as a mermaid.
 Katie Price plopped into a seat beside me at the Bluebird Cafe in Chelsea, shook my hand and said, ''Nice to meet you.'' We'd met twice before by then, once just days earlier, but I took no offense. She is a major celebrity, meeting hundreds of people, moving through life like a mechanized regiment. She was, as usual, mechanized herself, wired for sound for the benefit of two camera operators on her heels, filming for her reality show. Our date was business. Everything was business. She looked around at the other tables, where ladies were lunching, and wondered: ''How do people find the time to just sit and have lunch? Never, I never get that time.''
 Some of her time that week had been happily spent. Five months before, the tabloid News of the World published allegations by a former nanny that she and her husband were self-obsessed and neglectful parents. Price and Andre sued. A few days before our meeting in the Bluebird, they won. The newspaper made a formal apology in court and paid unspecified damages. The only bad news was that, acting on an unrelated complaint from the nanny, the Office of Communications (Ofcom), Britain's broadcasting watchdog agency, ruled that the nanny's privacy was unfairly violated on Price and Andre's reality show by scenes of Price firing her and then sorting through and packing up her personal possessions, on camera, in her absence.
 ''We do not agree with what Ofcom said,'' said Price's manager, Claire Powell, who had accompanied her and the camera crew to the restaurant. She pointed out that Ofcom had decided the case narrowly: ''It was only in her privacy.'' Only privacy -- clearly not something with which the Price camp is concerned.
 Earlier that day, Price was picking out designs for wallpaper and blinds in her new housewares collection, preparing to introduce her second perfume and planning a line of horse rugs and riding apparel, where she saw an opening for something novel. ''I thought -- you know what? -- the horse market is so boring that I want to bring something bright and blingy.''
 I asked her how she felt about her 18-year-old sister's breast implants and job with pornography purveyors.
 She felt fine, she said, pointing out that her sister was not herself taking part in the pornography. ''You do the before, you know . . . saying something like: 'Hello, boys, welcome to Television X. If you want to get turned on, get tuned in.' '' She delivered the announcement perfectly. ''And when they get tuned in, that's when all that bit happens. I'm not saying it's the best career move for anyone, but she's just starting out. And the money she got paid was brilliant.''
 This interview had been arranged after much back and forth with Price's people, but now that I had her again (for 45 minutes, I was told), I realized I had nothing much else to ask. The Katie Price phenomenon was remarkable; the woman beside me was an overscheduled businesswoman with horse blankets to design.
 Her cellphone rang, and she took a call from her husband. ''Busy day,'' she told him. ''I bought a tablecloth with Claire. You might not like it; it's a bit different. And now I'm doing The New York Times.''
 She clicked off, and I brought up something her publisher had told me. ''There is this thing about British celebrity,'' he'd said. ''There's a kind of multilayered irony to it. And it's often not clear who is mocking whom. Katie Price is completely tuned into that sensibility. Her presentation of herself is highly ironic.''
 I asked her if that was true.
 She looked at me blankly. ''What do you mean?''
 Did she really not know? I asked about the plan she mentioned to me in Los Angeles, to put her removed breast implants up for auction with a minimum bid of one million pounds. (''I'm sure there'll be some nutter out there who'll buy them for a million,'' she said.) Had she got them up on eBay yet?
 ''I haven't managed to do that,'' she replied. ''I'm trying to find a frame and a picture and a bra to put them in.''
 As my mind grappled to form that image, she mused, to me and the cameras: ''I hate the word 'famous.' But I think it's beyond that now. It's become more of a business. It's a product. It's -- ''
 What? I asked. What is the product?
 ''Me,'' she said with a laugh. ''Me! If I don't go to work, I miss out. Only I can sell the product. It's all about me.''
 Which brought us back to the basic question: what lay beneath it all? People were going to be buying Katie Price perfume, and novels, and horsewear, and children's books, and wallpaper, because she is . . . what?
 ''I don't know anymore,'' she said. ''You know when you fill out forms, 'job description'? I just put 'entertainer.' ''
 Price had a meeting to get to, so we settled our tab, and the party got up to leave. At the curb, Price hailed a taxi. It stopped, and she and Powell got in, the cameras taping them as they did. The taxi pulled away -- the cameras still running -- then pulled back to the curb about 20 feet down. The cameras stopped, the operators jumped in and the cab pulled away again, this time for real. n

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Katie Price, Britain's best-loved wallpaper-designing, perfume-selling, polo-playing reality-TV star. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICK NIGHT) (pg.MM61)
WORKING-CLASS HEROINE: Price at a book signing in London this year for ''Angel Undercovered.'' Like her other novels, ''Angels Uncovered'' is ghostwritten in a distinctly Katie Price voice: cheeky, unpretentious and hypersexual. (pg.MM63)
 PAPERBACK WRITER: Price's books her novels as well as her three autobiographies have all been best sellers. (pg.MM64) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DENCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (89%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); RANKINGS (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); POP & ROCK (70%); WIND ENERGY (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



348 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 77

LENGTH: 5205 words

HEADLINE: WIND-POWER POLITICS

BYLINE: By MARK SVENVOLD. 
Mark Svengold is the author of ''big Weather: Chasing Tornadoes in the Heart of America'' and ''Empire Burlesque,'' a collection of poems. He teaches at Seton Hall University.

 BODY:
''The moment I read that paper,'' the wind entrepreneur Peter Mandelstam recalled, ''I knew in my gut where my next wind project would be.'' 
 I was having lunch with Mandelstam last fall to discuss offshore wind in general and how he and his tiny company, Bluewater Wind, came to focus on Delaware as a likely place for a nascent and beleaguered offshore wind industry to establish itself. Mandelstam had been running late all morning. I knew this because I received a half-dozen messages on my cellphone from members of his staff, who relayed his oncoming approach like air-traffic controllers guiding a wayward trans-Atlantic flight into Kennedy. This was the Bluewater touch -- crisp, informative, ever-helpful, a supercharged, Eagle Scout attentiveness that was part corporate style, part calculated public-relations approach. It would pay off tremendously in his company's barnstorming campaign of Delaware town meetings and radio appearances to capture what he had reason to believe would be the first offshore-wind project in the country's history. 
 These features were, unsurprisingly, manifestations of Mandelstam himself, who arrived in a suit and tie, a wry smile, his wiry hair parted in the middle and tamped down like someone who had made a smooth transition from a Don Martin cartoon. Mandelstam, a 47-year-old native New Yorker who is capable of quoting Central European poets and oddball meteorological factoids with ease, had long committed himself -- and the tiny company he formed in 1999 -- to building utility-scale wind-power plants offshore, a decision that, to many wind-industry observers, seemed to fly in the face of common sense. Offshore marine construction was wildly, painfully expensive -- like standing in a cold shower and ripping up stacks of thousand-dollar bills. The very laws for permitting and siting such projects had yet to be enacted. Indeed, the recent past was littered with failed offshore wind projects. Never mind that there were so many more opportunities in the continental United States to build land-based wind farms, which cost half as much as offshore projects. While wind-energy companies in Europe were moving offshore at great speed, neither Mandelstam nor anyone else had ever successfully built an offshore wind farm in the United States. Failed, stalled or delayed projects sounded like a catalog of coastal shipwrecks: Long Island, Padre Island, Cape Wind. Entrepreneurs, of course, need to anticipate the next market, but when it came to offshore wind, Mandelstam seemed too far ahead of the curve to ever succeed. 
 Then in 2005 Willett Kempton, a University of Delaware professor in the school's College of Marine Studies, began teaching a course on offshore wind power. ''In our department,'' Kempton recalls, ''most of my colleagues were working on some aspect of the global-warming problem.'' Coal-fired power plants, a major contributor of carbon in the atmosphere, had recently been linked in Delaware to clusters of cancer outbreaks and to high levels of mercury in the state's fishery. One of the first things Kempton and his class did was go down the list of clean-energy options for Delaware -- ''It was a pretty short list,'' he said. Solar power was still far too expensive to be economically sustainable. And the state had no land-based wind resource to speak of. But a team of students, led by Amardeep Dhanju, became curious about measuring the winds off the coast to determine whether they might serve as a source of power. What he found was that Delaware's coastal winds were capable of producing a year-round average output of over 5,200 megawatts, or four times the average electrical consumption of the entire state. ''On the wholesale electricity markets,'' Dhanju wrote, ''this would produce just over $2 billion'' in annual revenue. 
 It so happened that the day Dhanju's semester-long research project was discussed, Kempton had invited several wind entrepreneurs to class. Mandelstam was the only invitee to show up in person. It was then that Mandelstam had his eureka moment. The amount of power Dhanju was describing, Mandelstam knew from Kempton, was but a small fraction of an even larger resource along what's known as the Mid-Atlantic Bight. This coastal region running from Massachusetts to North Carolina contained up to 330,000 megawatts of average electrical capacity. This was, in other words, an amount of guaranteed, bankable power that was larger, in terms of energy equivalence, than the entire mid-Atlantic coast's total energy demand -- not just for electricity but for heating, for gasoline, for diesel and for natural gas. Indeed the wind off the mid-Atlantic represented a full third of the Department of Energy's estimate of the total American offshore resource of 900,000 megawatts.
 The Mid-Atlantic Bight was particularly attractive to Mandelstam because offshore winds blow strong and steady throughout the day, which means offshore wind is more likely than land-based wind in the Northeastern United States to generate electricity when demand is high. More important, offshore wind farms, Mandelstam explained, can be built close enough to big, power-hungry cities -- or ''load centers'' -- to avoid construction of expensive and politically unpopular transmission lines. ''That's a chronic problem facing land-based wind in West Texas or in California,'' Mandelstam said, ''or in the Dakotas, or Wyoming,'' where wind resources are often many hundreds of miles removed from the cities they are meant to serve. In Europe, Mandelstam said, developers are planning to build upon this inherent advantage by connecting offshore projects to one another using high-voltage direct current cables. In America, such a system could supply the needs of local load centers and also export huge amounts of electricity, becoming part of a long-sought coastal megagrid, a robust, highly efficient, undersea transmission system capable of dispatching electricity anywhere along the East Coast, from Massachusetts to Florida. 
 As I listened to Mandelstam, the contours of what seemed to be a savvy and competitive business plan began to sharpen into focus. His aim was to exploit a huge, unheralded and presently untapped energy resource precisely at a time and place of colossal energy demand -- demand that is increasing at roughly 2 percent every year. Renewable Portfolio Standards and other state-driven initiatives requiring that a percentage of power (to increase annually) be generated by renewable sources, would, in effect, guarantee a growing market for developers like Mandelstam. Add to this the recent, spectacular rise in fossil-fuel energy prices, which has galvanized public attention around the need for alternative energy sources, and it seemed that Mandelstam -- by dint of being first in what some were predicting could be a trillion-dollar-plus build-out, had a pretty good shot at becoming king of the Mid-Atlantic Bight. 
 In late 2005, however, it was safe to say that nobody outside of Kempton, a cluster of grad students and Mandelstam himself imagined offshore wind power actually coming to Delaware. Which is not to say they shouldn't have been thinking about it. Delaware citizens had recently experienced the kind of awakening toward which most environmentalists believe we're all headed -- a collective recalibration of what it costs to keep the world up and running. It began with the restructuring of the state's electricity market and the subsequent removal of price caps, which had for seven years kept electricity prices artificially low. ''Everything skyrocketed,'' recalls Karen McGrath, formerly of the Chamber of Commerce for the small coastal communities of Bethany-Fenwick. ''Prices went up anywhere from 60 to 100 percent.'' The state's General Assembly responded by passing a law -- House Bill 6 -- that called for Delaware to generate more of its own electricity. Under the new state law, the state's Public Service Commission solicited proposals for the construction of an electric-power plant. Wind power was not even mentioned, but, as Willett Kempton later recalled, ''it wasn't excluded, either.'' 
 Kempton brought this fact to the attention of Mandelstam and others in August 2006, and Mandelstam and his staff flew into action. ''We worked day and night from August until December,'' Mandelstam said. He knew that his plans for an offshore wind farm would face fierce opposition, as had other projects, perhaps none more famously than Cape Wind in Nantucket Sound. Conceived in 2000, when the price of oil was $25 a barrel, the Cape Wind project remains the best-known unbuilt offshore wind farm in America. A small, vocal, well-organized and politically connected minority argued that a wind farm would irrevocably spoil a pristine, treasured seascape, a sentiment perhaps most famously expressed in a New York Times editorial by Robert F. Kennedy Jr.: ''I wouldn't build a wind farm in Yosemite Park. Nor would I build one on Nantucket Sound.''
 Against such pronouncements, and to the question of a sacrosanct American horizon best reserved for God's signature, Mandelstam is sometimes prompted, in a way that seems inevitable in a story like this, to evoke the windmills in Cervantes's ''Don Quixote.'' ''Quixote is a romantic and chivalrous knight who doesn't want anything to change,'' Mandelstam said. ''He actually says that windmills are monsters with which he is going to do battle. That's a delusion that he projects onto these windmills.'' To combat these perceptions, Mandelstam hired a British consultant, RPS, that specializes in computerized models to show Delaware citizens exactly how the wind farm would look after its construction. Mandelstam says he thought these would help Delaware citizens to see offshore wind turbines as Sancho Panza, Quixote's sidekick, saw them -- not romantically but practically, as a new technology benefiting humanity. ''I think it's a very powerful literary example of a human phenomenon,'' Mandelstam said. ''When you see wind turbines rather than imagine them in your mind's eye, then you perceive a new object in the landscape for what it is -- rather than projecting upon it your own fear.'' It helped, of course, that Bluewater's turbines would be sited more than 12 miles out to sea, as opposed to the 5 to 7 miles for Cape Wind, so that, once constructed, the turbines would appear on the horizon no larger than half the size of a thumbnail, and then only on clear days.
 ''The Europeans see offshore wind turbines as sentinels,'' Mandelstam told me, ''protecting them from energy domination by foreign powers. When you put that against a few winter days of seeing turbines on the beach as you walk your dog, I think that's a very easy trade-off.''
 Mandelstam's visual consultants showed the public what the turbines would look like when built. He hired consultants to address public concerns about the effects of wind turbines on migrating birds. He commissioned private meteorologists to verify the wind resource. And he and his team met regularly with the Delaware public to discuss the impact of the wind farm on ratepayers. ''In one 21-day period, we spent $380,000 to do a geophysical investigation of the sea floor,'' Mandelstam said. ''On land, the same geophysical work would cost $5,000.'' Four months and $5 million later, on Dec. 22, 2006, Mandelstam and his staff submitted the Bluewater Wind Park proposal, a 3,400-page document describing a 200-turbine, 600-megawatt, $1.5 billion offshore wind farm that would serve as a new electrical power plant. 
 Still, Bluewater was up against two energy Goliaths. NRG, a generation company with $5.9 billion in annual gross receipts, proposed building a coal-fired power plant; Conectiv, a subsidiary of Pepco Holdings, a Washington-based electric company with annual revenues of $8.3 billion, filed to build a natural-gas power plant. Conectiv's sister company Delmarva Power immediately began to wage a negative advertising campaign. It used radio spots to try to turn people against wind energy, as did NRG, whose clean-coal plant was well represented by Mike Houghton, an NRG lobbyist and a major fund-raiser for Gov. Ruth Ann Minner. Six months before the bids were officially due, Governor Minner publicly endorsed NRG's clean-coal proposal. 
 And yet, despite the long odds against Bluewater, Delaware's citizens began swinging heavily in favor of the offshore wind project. They were receptive to Bluewater's director of communications, Jim Lanard, who appeared weekly on a local talk show. ''When I first invited Jim onto my show,'' recalls the host, Randy Nelson, ''nobody cared about wind power, but within five months, Jim would come on, and all the phone lines would light up.'' According to Nelson, the Bluewater project captured the attention of a citizenry hungry for an alternative to coal-fired plants. ''Out here, the Delaware shore is all we've got for an economy,'' he says. ''And the coal plant seemed to put the Delaware shore at risk. It's hard to overstate just how much people hated that.'' For his part, Mandelstam waged a low-budget campaign of town meetings throughout the state, emphasizing price stability -- how Bluewater's 25-year utility contract protected ratepayers from rising fossil-fuel prices. Mandelstam and his firm reinforced wind power's environmental benefits and brought their visual simulation images to show how slight the change would be to the Delaware seascape. ''They answered questions,'' says R. Chris Clark, a Fenwick Island Council member. ''They were the only ones doing town meetings.'' People also responded to the economic benefits that the Bluewater project would bring to the state -- hundreds of new union jobs, roughly $100 million in direct local union construction wages and spinoff industries. As a first-mover in offshore wind, Delaware was likely to become a development hub for a big build into the mid-Atlantic. The construction of the Bluewater Wind Park, moreover, would be part of an important step in decommissioning several old coal-fired power plants, the removal of which would, by some estimates, save the state $750 million in health-care costs. 
 Over time, comments to the Public Service Commission were nearly 10 to 1 in favor of the wind project. A survey conducted by the University of Delaware concluded that 91 percent of the state's residents supported wind power offshore -- even if it meant paying more per month for electricity. Soon Bluewater began picking up important endorsements. One of the first came from Jack Markell, the state treasurer and a current gubernatorial candidate. Dozens more followed, including a judicious opinion published by the state's Audubon Society, but perhaps none were more important -- or telling of the change in public opinion -- than those from the half-dozen coastal tourist towns whose ''viewshed'' would be slightly but more or less permanently altered. 
 Then in May 2007, after the longest and most exhaustive review process in its history, the Public Service Commission unanimously selected the Bluewater Wind Park as the winner of the open competition and ordered Delmarva Power, the same company that had been actively campaigning against the wind farm, to begin negotiating a contract -- what's known in the business as a long-term power purchase agreement, or P.P.A., with Bluewater. The decision seemed nothing short of miraculous. ''Two years ago,'' Mandelstam told me shortly thereafter, ''if I told the governor of Delaware that I was going to build a wind farm off the coast, she would have laughed in my face. Maybe it's energy prices. Maybe it's the Al Gore movie. But nobody's laughing now.''
 In the golden light of last October, things seemed to be going very well for Bluewater, especially after the infrastructure conglomerate Babcock & Brown announced its decision to purchase the company, signaling that a major player had squarely faced the many significant obstacles of offshore wind and placed a big bet on Bluewater in Delaware. Just as Delaware seemed to become more continental in its outlook, a sea change of favorable public opinion was well under way on Wall Street, where wind power, at least the onshore variety, has become a new American frontier, a $9 billion market that is expected to grow to $65 billion by 2015. 
 Last year, onshore wind power added more than 5,200 megawatts of new electrical capacity to the grid -- or nearly a third of America's new generating capacity, surpassing all other forms of new generation except natural gas and amounting to enough electric capacity to power one and a half million homes. While it's true that wind is still a tiny part of the energy picture -- just 1 percent of the total electricity portfolio in the United States and 3.3 percent in Europe -- more than a quarter of the 20,000 megawatts of the world's new wind capacity last year was installed in North America, where all the global wind-energy players have set up shop, lured by the low U.S. dollar and the high rate of returns. ''In America,'' explains Antonio Mexia, chief executive for Energias de Portugal, which bought the Texas wind company Horizon Energy, ''you can put up a 200- or 300-megawatt wind park. You can't do that in Europe.'' Indeed, in the continental United States, resources are vast -- with more than eight thousand gigawatts of potential electricity blowing overhead. ''The amount of wind energy potential in this country,'' says Walt Musial, a principal engineer at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory's National Wind Technology Center, ''is bigger than the national grid itself.''
 But the explosive growth in land-based wind farms owes more than a little to state and federal subsidies for the wind industry: state renewable energy credits; accelerated depreciation credits; and, perhaps most important, federal tax credits for equity investors who help wind developers finance and construct wind farms. This last subsidy is keyed to actual electricity production, which is why it is called a production tax credit, or P.T.C. Large wind farms simply can't be financed without the P.T.C., which, in effect, decreases by as much as 40 percent the financing that developers need to build a project. ''That's huge,'' says Bruno Mejean, managing director at Nord/LB New York, a German-based bank and an active wind-energy lender. ''You cannot finance these projects without this 40 percent component. That's what makes wind power viable commercially.'' Investors are happy with the P.T.C. because for a modest return on their money they get huge corporate tax breaks. Wind developers are happy because P.T.C.'s allow them to build bigger projects. 
 But for some, P.T.C.'s are a problem, not the solution. Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, the third-most-powerful Republican in the Senate and perhaps the most outspoken opponent of wind energy in Congress, argues that the wind industry is disproportionately subsidized, which has made harvesting wind a lucrative opportunity for entrepreneurs like Mandelstam and the investors who finance their projects. Alexander says he feels that wind should be given tax breaks no different from those for other forms of renewable energy, like nuclear power: ''If I had the money to spend, I'd spend it on conservation and efficiency, nuclear power and on cleaning up the coal plants that already produce half of our electricity.''
 Those who remain skeptical of wind energy as a viable solution to America's energy question tend to focus on the problems of intermittence and variability: the wind doesn't always blow, and it seldom blows at the same speed. Therefore, turbines generate variable amounts of electricity. All of this can be very troublesome for the grid, which requires consistency and predictability. ''There's a third element,'' says Lisa Linowes, executive director of the Industrial Wind Action Group, ''and that is that wind power is unpredictable power. The wind often blows when you don't really need the electricity -- at night, or off-peak periods. What to do then?'' To date, according to Linowes, there is no effective utility-scale mechanism for storing off-peak wind power. Eric Rosenbloom, president of National Wind Watch, a Massachusetts-based group, adds that wind power's inherent unreliability requires that backup natural-gas power plants be built alongside wind plants, and that this ''increases, rather than decreases, both the overall expense of wind power and its carbon footprint.''
 Within Delaware itself, opponents of Bluewater focused on the economics of the project. One report financed by Delmarva Power argued that Bluewater would raise the average electric bill by $20 or more a month. If natural-gas prices flattened or decreased, the company could pass those savings on to its customers -- but not if it were stuck in a long-term contract at the Bluewater price of 10 cents per kilowatt hour for the next 25 years. Delmarva's president, Gary Stockbridge, argued that cheaper land-based wind farms should be considered, even though a search for land-based wind power would, of necessity, take Delmarva into out-of-state electricity markets, in contravention of the very state law that prompted the bid for new energy generation. 
 Spurred by these objections, a handful of powerful state legislators -- among them the State Senators Charles Copeland and Harris McDowell III -- stepped in last December and managed to force a deadlock among four state agencies that were set to ratify the power purchase agreement between Bluewater and Delmarva. In a move that surprised everyone (''There were audible gasps in the room,'' recalls one witness to the proceedings), the vote was tabled. A local paper, The News Journal, called it a legislative coup d'etat orchestrated beyond public scrutiny, at the 11th hour, by an ''old-boys' network,'' as it was put in The News Journal, who now seemed to be airing the views of the wind park's most vocal opponent, Delmarva Power. 
 All winter, the Bluewater Wind Park remained in limbo, while its chief legislative opponent, Senator Harris MacDowell III, conducted hearings that seemed, by many accounts, designed to torpedo the project. Meanwhile, Delmarva pressed its advantage, buying radio, television and print ads and hiring its own consultants to make its case. ''From a risk perspective,'' Stockbridge said in a phone interview in December, ''do we really want to lock in to what amounts to a period of 30 years to a technology when it's most expensive and most risky? Offshore wind is just not ready yet.''
 So how was it that, six months later, after millions of dollars spent fighting one of the most protracted political battles in Delaware history, Gary Stockbridge sat before a room filled with reporters to announce that offshore wind power in America was, in fact, ready? Delmarva, he revealed, had signed a power purchase agreement with Bluewater Wind to build a scaled-down, 200-megawatt wind farm off the coast. 
 When I met Mandelstam at lunch a day after Delmarva's surprise announcement, he was beaming and wearing little wind-turbine cuff links, a present from his wife, Dawn. ''The offshore wind industry grew up yesterday,'' he said. ''Delmarva came to understand that offshore wind was beneficial for its ratepayers, and that wind would fit onto its system.''
 Though Mandelstam praised various legislators and Delmarva for coming to an agreement, he conceded that no small part of this realization was linked to the rise in energy prices. ''Energy markets went significantly higher -- and scarily so, particularly in the last six months,'' he said. Indeed, oil has skyrocketed, and the price of Appalachian coal has more than doubled this year. Tom Noyes, a Bluewater supporter, blogger, and Wilmington-based financial analyst, says that a year ago, ''the numbers that both sides of this debate were throwing around were largely academic. Now, those numbers are visceral.'' Against this backdrop of steadily climbing energy prices, Bluewater's offer of stable-priced electricity -- an inflation-adjusted 10 cents per kilowatt hour for the next 25 years -- became something that no utility, it seems, could credibly oppose. ''A few decision-makers got it early on,'' Mandelstam said, ''some got it slightly later and Delmarva finally got it.''
 For those looking for a parable of civic action in Bluewater's unlikely victory in Delaware, it is useful to remember how much the outcome seems to have hinged on one man: State Senate Majority Leader Anthony DeLuca. While never publicly opposing the Bluewater deal, DeLuca had serious concerns about how electricity rates would affect his constituency and was believed by many observers to be among the leadership that succeeded in orchestrating the December coup. The same man was widely credited for brokering the deal between the antagonists. ''I managed to get criticized by both sides of the argument,'' DeLuca said, ''for asking the same question: Are you really going to build a wind farm?'' He continued: ''We were headed for two very large companies spending 25 years as adversaries. The net result of this is that we're going to spend 25 years with two very large companies being partners.''
 Whatever eventually persuaded DeLuca, the lesson in Delaware is clear. ''It's about the importance of leadership,'' says Ryan Wiser, a staff scientist at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory who has studied the barriers to renewable energy and the economics of wind power. Wiser cites Colorado as an example of a state shifting from fossil fuels to wind and other alternative sources of energy after electing a new governor, Bill Ritter, on a platform of green energy. ''In a two-year period, Colorado made a total about-face,'' Wiser says. What was the difference? ''The utility was the same. The economics were more or less the same. The decisive factor was the change in leadership.''
 Delaware's project, it turns out, joins more than a dozen offshore wind projects in the United States, the largest among them aimed toward the Mid-Atlantic Bight. A report released by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory suggests that the technological challenges of wind power will not, in fact, prevent it from becoming an important part of the nation's energy supply. ''Wind power,'' says Walt Musial of the N.R.E.L., ''is not a niche player. That's something that the American public may not fully be aware of.'' According to many academics and industry researchers, the grid is, in fact, far more adaptable than wind-power opponents suppose. In Texas and California (states with the largest amount of installed wind capacity), utilities are working to enable the grid to adapt to variable and intermittent loads. In New York, it seems that wind energy could provide the state with 20 percent of its energy capacity without causing trouble to the grid. ''You can't say that because wind power is intermittent it can never be used,'' says Revis James, director of the Energy Technology Assessment Center at the Electric Power Research Institute, a nonprofit agency whose funds are provided almost entirely by electric utilities. Musial agrees: ''Intermittency and variability are not going to prevent us from going into wind energy.'' He points to countries like Denmark, which generates 20 percent of its electrical supply from wind. ''And they haven't done anything different to their grid structure,'' he adds. 
 Nonetheless, many hurdles remain. Federal regulations governing the construction of offshore wind farms, for instance, haven't even been written. In the absence of a coherent federal energy policy, moreover, the states have begun to shape America's energy future. The result is a hodgepodge: 50 different states with different energy resources and utilities with varying degrees of receptivity to new forms of power generation. 
 ''What we need,'' says Lester Brown, founder and president of the Earth Policy Institute, ''is the grid equivalent of the Eisenhower Interstate Highway System.'' Wind energy, according to Brown, would be the centerpiece of such a program because of its ability to scale up fast. T. Boone Pickens, the oil-and-gas billionaire, has just introduced his own program, which features a major deployment of wind power at the national level. According to the D.O.E., the net incremental cost of such a project would be $43 billion, enough to bring wind energy to supply 20 percent of the nation's electricity by 2030, bringing about a total economic benefit of more than $440 billion. 
 In the end, the back and forth between wind-energy supporters and opponents is ultimately about the role the federal government should play in shaping the energy market. ''You and I are subsidizing wind energy,'' the banker Bruno Mejean reminded me with a smile when I spoke to him last year. ''How you feel about that depends upon how you frame the argument. If it's about energy security, then we should do as many wind farms as we can. But by paying the prices for the energy and by providing the tax breaks, big corporations like Florida Power and Light, General Electric and others are reducing their taxes at our expense. It's a political hot potato.''
 Is it right for Congress to single out an industry like wind power and favor it with tax credits? Mandelstam argues that when it comes to energy, free markets are a mirage. ''Let's be honest,'' he says. ''The government makes policy decisions about technologies and industries all the time. The P.T.C. helps finance wind-energy projects that actually get built and that actually produce energy. It leverages private dollars and private initiative, and at the end of the day is a tiny subsidy.'' He notes that most of the world's oil supply is owned by national governments: ''No serious economist or public policy analyst would suggest that this industry, by some reckoning the largest on the planet, operates as a free market. Within the United States, the regulations and the laws both for fossil fuel and for the electricity market are a web of sometimes contradictory regulations and subsidies. It's a fiction that there's a free market with energy.'' But if energy markets aren't free, then who is at the helm? 
 It may seem strange for an entrepreneur to call for more government regulation, but when it comes to energy, that is what Mandelstam is doing. ''As a student of history, you go back to a guy named Thomas Edison, and his first power plant, and the thing one has to point out is that the government and regulators have been integrally enmeshed in the energy business ever since it began on Pearl Street in 1882.'' He points to Europe as an exemplar: ''We were the world leader in wind. Europe overtook us quite a while ago and continues to beat us all the time because they got the public policy right.'' Wise regulation, according to Mandelstam, and a thoughtful debate about energy policy is the best way to correct that. ''Let's line up all the subsidies of coal and nuclear power and oil and natural gas and wind -- and let's have a debate,'' Mandelstam urges. ''That hasn't happened in the last eight years, and now, frankly, we're paying the price for it.'' n

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER FURLONG/GETTY IMAGES) DRAWING: 1. WIND TURBINE, 2. TRANSFORMER, 3. BURIED POWER CABLE, 4. TRANSFORMER, 5. TRANSMISSION LINES (DRAWING BY BRYAN CHRISTIE DESIGN) (pg.MM81) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CIVIL AVIATION (75%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); POWER PLANTS (73%); HISTORY (71%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (69%); MARINE & WATERWAY CONSTRUCTION (68%); OCEANOGRAPHY (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



349 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; HOMEWORK; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1776 words

HEADLINE: To Create Order... First Get Organized

BYLINE: By SUSAN STEWART

 BODY:
AS I write this story, I'd rather be straightening my house. This will come as a surprise to anyone who has ever looked at or lived in my house. But organization, like yawning and measles, is contagious. It can infect anybody, even the kind of person who took some of the notes for this story on a piece of paper she found on the floor of her car -- a veterinarian's receipt for a dog that had been dead for three years. 
 No matter how big a slob you are, if you watch somebody organize long enough, you want to organize, too.
 At the very least, you want to buy the stuff that organizers use. After observing the reorganization of a walk-in closet in a Harrison, N.Y., home, I had to restrain myself from driving straight to the closest Linens 'n Things and purchasing the fabulous notched faux-suede hangers that Debbie Harwin, an organizer in Larchmont, N.Y., had used for Debra Alpert's clothes. 
 ''Once all the hangers match, it's aesthetically pleasing,'' Ms. Harwin said.
 Ms. Alpert said she bought the hangers after a ''pre-purge'' of her closet and then an initial consultation with Ms. Harwin, who suggested them. ''I went and got a box of 50. I had no idea what I'd need. I went back and bought five more boxes.''
 As Ms. Alpert sorted through pants, Ms. Harwin, who has a quiet, Zen-like manner, listened closely. They talked categories: daytime, dressy, spring, fall, capris. They purged. The Krizia white jeans stayed, the blue Gap chinos went.
 ''They've lived a good life,'' said Ms. Alpert, 41. ''Get rid of them.''
 ''It's almost like these are misfiled,'' Ms. Harwin said, carrying a pair of brown summer pants from the fall to the spring rack.
 A few hours into this, it was possible to see that even a woman with more than 72 pairs of shoes -- perhaps especially such a woman -- could greatly benefit from the help of somebody like Ms. Harwin, who was lining up her dolls at the age of 2 and who, when she worked as a lawyer in Manhattan, had the neatest files in the office.
 ''It's about finding a place for everything, as cliche as that sounds,'' Ms. Harwin said.
 Looking around Ms. Alpert's closet, with its floor-to-ceiling shoe shelves (purse shelves and boot holders are coming) and its wire bins for tennis clothes and swimsuits, I realized that my own closet was small enough to be a closet in this closet.
 But I could at least have the same hangers. I knew that if I owned them, I would never again misplace a shirt or stupidly hold on to an outgrown pair of khakis. I also knew this was wrongheaded thinking. Plenty of professional organizers had told me so.
 ''Before I even get there, people want to go out and buy containers,'' said Deborah Gussoff, an organizer in Montclair, N.J. ''I say don't. That's the sexy part of it.''
 The consummation, she might have added, of your relationship with your space. Something not to be entered into lightly, but with reverence and a good tape measure.
 So although I was seduced by the perfect hanger, I did not succumb. Which brings me to the first of my Organizing Tips, culled from interviews with professionals and their clients around the region:
 Tip No. 1: Purge first, binge later. People think freshly purchased containers will make them organized. But it's not the containers that organize you, it's the system. And if you are disorganized enough to need a system, you may need a professional to create it.
 ''Professional organizer'' is an even newer job title than, say, ''Web designer.'' Ms. Gussoff, who has an M.B.A., has been organizing for a living since her daughter, now 18, was born.
 ''Fifteen years ago, if I told somebody I was a professional organizer, they'd get a look on their face and say, 'Labor unions?' ''
 TODAY, there seem to be as many professional organizers as there are closets. Actually, the National Association of Professional Organizers (founded in 1985) has almost 4,000 members. Nobody knows exactly why so many people are willing to pay upward of $100 an hour (rates vary) for help cleaning out junk. It is not merely a function of affluence.
 ''I have plenty of clients who save up money to hire me,'' said Jody Berman, a Long Island organizer. ''We all have a finite amount of space, unless we buy another house.''
 Also, more women are working outside the home. They can barely get dinner on the table, much less sort through the junk drawer. There's an explosion in communications: Keeping track of e-mail takes time away from keeping track of stuff. And mainly, there's stuff. Even in a recession, we all have too much of everything.
 One of the first famous organizers was Julie Morgenstern, author of the seminal 1998 work ''Organizing From the Inside Out,'' now used as a textbook for the professional association's credentialing exam. She appeared on ''Oprah'' in 1999, then went back to her office to find more than a thousand messages from potential clients. 
 Ms. Morgenstern is a no-nonsense writer whose ''analyze, strategize and attack'' formula acknowledges psychological impediments to organization but does not make them central.
 Oprah currently seems to favor the organizer Peter Walsh, author of a 2008 book positing that cleaning your house will help you lose weight. In a decade, organization mingled with philosophy, psychology and self-help to become something rich and strange -- and TV-worthy. Shows like ''Clean Sweep,'' which features Mr. Walsh and is still in reruns, are great publicity, but a mixed blessing.
 ''Organizers do not feel these shows accurately portray what we do,'' Debbie Harwin said. ''It's not about going in, waving a magic wand and cleaning up a room.''
 Still, cleaning up a room is the first step, which is why Betsy Krobot, an organizer based in Bridgeport, Conn., took two assistants with her to Rowayton, Conn., at 10 a.m. on a summer weekday. Her client, Pam Agonis, 59, lives with her husband in a quirky 19th-century rented cottage near the water. There is one bedroom with a tiny anteroom. By the time Ms. Krobot and her assistants finished this two-day job, the anteroom was a charming office from which Ms. Agonis can start a second career.
 ''The hope is that if I clear, things will become clear,'' Ms. Agonis said.
 First, things needed to be cleared out. Ms. Krobot made a plan during her initial assessment, and now she started putting books, files, an unused foot massager and all manner of junk into bankers' boxes.
 Tip No. 2: Bankers' boxes, from the office-supply store, hold legal or file-size folders, and are stamped ''Destroy Date'' on one end, making them a perfect purgatory for paperwork.
 Ms. Agonis's house was so neat, by my standards, that I accused her of cleaning up for Ms. Krobot. She denied this.
 ''There are different levels of disorganization,'' Ms. Krobot said, rather pointedly.
 MS. KROBOT wore a white tank top with a pink-and-green logo advertising her business. She wiped her forehead with a green washcloth that she carried in the back pocket of her khakis. She buzzed with energy. Every time she opened her mouth, an organizing aphorism emerged:
 ''When you're not organized, you feel like you're standing on Bambi legs.''
 ''The most successful people in the world are right-brained people who've learned left-brain skills.''
 Ms. Agonis had one: ''My definition of feng shui,'' she said, is taking all your husband's junk out of the house and putting it in the garage.
 Everybody laughed, but Ms. Krobot and her helpers are serious about feng shui. They moved a mirror from the bedroom -- unlucky -- into the anteroom.
 ''I totally believe it,'' said Ms. Krobot. ''I've seen it change lives.''
 On a more modest scale, a Ziploc bag can change the way you store electronics, which brings us to:
 Tip No. 3: Use one Ziploc bag for every appliance or electronics item you own. Store extra cords, batteries, warranties and the other stuff you don't know what to do with. Then put the bags together in a bin.
 While Ms. Krobot and Emily Vetrosky worked upstairs, Caroline Winterson and Ms. Agonis sat in the living room, purging books: 
 ''14,000 Things to Be Happy About'' went; the high school yearbook stayed.
 Five partially full journals went. ''People give me journals all the time,'' Ms. Agonis said, picking up a sixth. ''My first marriage,'' she said, rolling her eyes and ripping out pages for the shredder.
 By noon on the second day, Ms. Agonis had an office. Her furniture was rearranged, her bookshelf and papers edited, her desk emptied and sensibly refilled. Wicker hampers held magazines and research material; a new lamp gave her a reading nook, where, if she wanted, she could immerse herself in the literature of organization, from the gospels according to Ms. Morgenstern and Mr. Walsh to ''File...Don't Pile'' by Pat Dorff, and ''How to Be Organized in Spite of Yourself'' by Sunny Schlenger. Or any of dozens of other titles: Amazon lists hundreds of them under the heading ''personal organization.''
 But, as Ms. Krobot, who created Ms. Agonis's new study, points out, just reading the book does not get the job done. ''Everybody knows how to file,'' she said, ''but we need to be there.''
 Besides, buying all those books would just add needless clutter.
 More Tips From the Experts
 Do not store your shoes beside each other as if there were feet in them. Store them heel to toe. They will take up less space.
 Attractive wastebaskets are the perfect place to store out-of-season wrapping paper.
 In September, designate a box for each child's artwork and school papers. Then go through them the next summer, when you are not so attached to them. 
 Do not keep something just because it was a gift. Adopt the theory that once somebody gives a gift, they lose control of it. 
 To get rid of clothes, put them in a non-see-through garbage bag, date the bag and put a date a few months into the future on the calendar. If you have not gone into the bag by that date, donate it.
 Do not store your shoes beside each other as if there were feet in them. Store them heel to toe. They will take up less space. 
 Attractive wastebaskets are the perfect place to store out-ofseason wrapping paper. 
 In September, designate a box for each child's artwork and school papers. Then go through them the next summer, when you are not so attached to them. 
 Do not keep something just because it was a gift. Adopt the theory that once somebody gives a gift, they lose control of it. 
 To get rid of clothes, put them in a non-see-through garbage bag, date the bag and put a date a few months into the future on the calendar. If you have not gone into the bag by that date, donate it. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE STRAIGHT STORY: Debbie Harwin, top right, a paid organizer, helping Debra Alpert arrange her clothes and shoes.
 FILE FACTOR: Betsy Krobot, center, in the anteroom of Pam Agonis, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUDITH PSZENICA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC: MORE TIPS FROM THE EXPERTS: 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (77%); SPORTS (77%); LAWYERS (50%)

COMPANY: LINENS 'N THINGS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (56%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



350 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE FEED; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Ate a Whole Pint? Check Again

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
REMEMBER the supersize phenomenon, when fast-food restaurants offered huge portions of soda and fries?
 The reverse is now happening in America's supermarkets and big-box retailers. In industry lingo, it's called short-sizing.
 Aiming to offset increased ingredient and transportation costs, some of the nation's food manufacturers are reducing the size of packages. The price, of course, usually stays the same. 
 Some companies possibly cut back on the quantity of product in a package in the hope that consumers wouldn't notice or care. Judging by rants on various blogs, though, many consumers have noticed, and they do care.
 Others have acknowledged that they have downsized products, but that has not stopped consumers from venting outrage.
 ''We've been buying gasoline by the gallon for decades,'' wrote a consumer named Thomas, complaining about smaller ice cream cartons in an online posting of the Ice Cream Journal, the blog run by Turkey Hill Dairy. ''Prices go up and they go down but we still buy it, still complain about it but we know it's a gallon.''
 ''We all know prices go up,'' he added. ''It just seems sneaky to lower the contents.''
 Ice cream once was sold in half-gallon containers, but many companies shifted several years ago to 1.75 quarts. 
 Now, with milk and egg prices soaring, many ice cream makers are selling 1.5-quart containers -- without lowering the price.
 ''I can understand why you may not be pleased with us right now,'' said Timothy F. Kahn, chief executive of Dreyer's Grand Ice Cream Holdings, in a letter to consumers who had complained about smaller package sizes. ''Our carton is smaller and no one wants less for the same money.''
 But Mr. Kahn said in the letter that it didn't make sense to raise prices to have a carton of ice cream cost $7 or $8.
 Cereal boxes are becoming smaller, too, including those for Cheerios from General Mills and Apple Jacks and Froot Loops from Kellogg's.
 Frito-Lay has cut the size of Doritos, while jars of Hellmann's mayonnaise and Skippy peanut butter have also shrunk recently, according to a database of new products maintained by Mintel, a market research firm.
 Consumer Reports magazine says that the package sizes have been reduced for products including Hershey's Special Dark chocolate bar, Iams cat food, Tropicana orange juice, Dial soap and Nabisco Chips Ahoy cookies.
 The magazine surveyed consumers in July and found that 75 percent had noticed that packages were smaller and that 71 percent believed that the main reason for the change was to hide price increases from consumers.
 Lynn Dornblaser, a new-product expert at Mintel, said she recently conducted an informal survey involving 100 products at the supermarket and found that about 10 percent had been downsized in the last 12 to 18 months. 
 ''It's a surprise when you go to buy something and it's considerably smaller and they don't tell you why,'' she said, noting that downsizing has occurred in previous economic downturns. What has made this cycle different, she said, is that consumers are more willing to challenge the downsizing, particularly on the Internet.
 ''It's about getting on Facebook, or a blog or on the company's blog,'' she said. ''Consumers are standing up, and the ones who don't like it are being very vocal.''
 OF course, food companies are in the business of making money, and they have been hit by higher costs for transportation and ingredients, particularly for items like eggs, milk and flour.
 Mitchell P. Corwin, an analyst at Morningstar, said that most packaged-food companies have fared quite well despite the price increases and package reductions. He said that there had been slight decreases in sales volumes during the last year, which is to be expected when prices rise.
 ''It's been passed on pretty successfully,'' he said.
 In an Aug. 15 posting on the Ice Cream Journal blog, Quintin Frey, president of Turkey Hill Dairy, said that reducing the carton size was the best option among several bad choices. The others included using less expensive ingredients, increasing the price or moving the company's manufacturing out of Lancaster County, Pa., to a place where production costs are less. 
 ''The overwhelming majority in our focus groups told us that keeping the price the same and decreasing the size of the package was the best answer, even if no one was really happy about it (including myself),'' he wrote. 
 Most food companies have already raised prices at least once in the last year or so and are reluctant to do so again, especially when consumers are suffering. There are certain price barriers for products that manufacturers don't want to cross.
 Aside from posting nasty messages on the Internet, there are a few things that shoppers can do to combat short-sizing. 
 Some stores are now pointing out the best deal in a category or are promoting private-label brands that tend to be cheaper. 
 But consumers searching for value can also bring their reading glasses to the grocery store and read the unit price -- like the price per ounce -- on the shelves.
 ''The size of the package and the price of the package are almost secondary,'' said Ms. Dornblaser of Mintel. ''What becomes important is the unit price.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Some packaged foods that have shrunk in size include a jar of Skippy peanut butter, from 16.3 ounces down to 15 ounces, and a bag of Doritos chips, from 13 ounces to 12.5 ounces. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM MINTEL GLOBAL NEW PRODUCTS DATABASE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); ICE CREAM (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); FOOD PRICES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); ANIMAL FOODS (78%); PET FOODS (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); ICE CREAM MFG (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); FOOD MFG (73%); MARKETING SURVEYS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: DREYER'S GRAND ICE CREAM INC (91%); KELLOGG CO (58%); TURKEY HILL DAIRY INC (56%); GENERAL MILLS INC (52%); FRITO-LAY INC (52%)

TICKER: K (NYSE) (58%); GIS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (91%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (58%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (58%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (52%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (52%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (52%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



351 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: Letters: That Dividend Tax Rate

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''On Dividend Taxes, It's a Post-Partisan Race'' (Economic View, Sept. 7), in which N. Gregory Mankiw cited the argument that dividends should be taxed at a much lower rate than ordinary income to avoid double taxation of dividends. 
 The problem is that this results in taxing money earned by people at a much higher rate than money earned by money. Someone who works hard for $75,000 in wages must pay much more in taxes than someone who inherits a tidy sum of money, never does a lick of work, and is paid $75,000 in dividends.
 A far better way to avoid double taxation is to allow corporations to deduct the amount they pay out in dividends when computing their net taxable income, then tax all dividends as ordinary income. This also would encourage companies to pay dividends.
 Gomer Thomas
 Piscataway, N.J., Sept. 8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INCOME TAX (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



352 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Where to Direct All That Rage

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
EARLIER this month I was flying home to Los Angeles from the Republican National Convention in St. Paul, which I attended as a pundit, not a politician. Sitting next to me on the flight was a charming young man named Tom Morello. Ruthless questioning elicited the fact that he is the lead guitar for a fabulously successful band called Rage Against the Machine. 
 This band sings about inequality and oppression in the world, mostly, as far as I can tell, in the Western world, and, these days, mostly in George W. Bush's world. In the process, all of the band members have become well-heeled indeed. Raging against the machine -- which I am morally certain is done by the band with utmost sincerity -- pays well sometimes. I must add that Mr. Morello is a gentleman and amazingly talented and that I would be happy if I had his composure. 
 But as I pondered this band's act, my brain turned to the presidential campaign. In particular, I was struck by how angry both sides are at ''Washington.''
 I am not certain what they mean by Washington. The city itself has terrible humidity and awful traffic, but that's clearly not what they are talking about. I think they mean the way government does business, and here I am puzzled by both sides' anger, but especially by Senator John McCain's.
 First, there's the endless complaining about waste, fraud and abuse in Washington. I have been following politics since I was 7, when Dwight D. Eisenhower first ran against Adlai Stevenson. In that election and all those after, and probably long before, all candidates told us how there was a lot of waste, fraud and abuse, and that they would find it and rip it out root and branch, and that the government would then run cleanly and thriftily.
 Somehow, it never happens. There always seems to be more waste, fraud and abuse to complain about. And if my poor old memory doesn't fail me, the endless investigations of waste, fraud and abuse turn up pretty small potatoes in a federal budget approximating $2.4 trillion. And even if earmarks were totally wasteful, I read that they totaled $18 billion last year. Not pennies, for sure, but a tiny blemish on a federal budget roughly 150 times that sum.
 Besides, what one person calls waste -- say, an urban economist talking about ethanol subsidies -- is, in the eyes of an Iowa corn farmer, basic salvation of our energy independence. What another person calls waste -- an enormously expensive new fighter bomber -- is a defense of freedom to another equally patriotic American. 
 It's sometimes awfully hard to define waste. It's largely subjective. And as far as I can tell, it's either not a huge number, or it is so deeply woven into the fabric of government that it cannot be determined. So maybe we should not pay much attention when Senator Barack Obama tells us that he will read every line of the federal budget, which contains thousands upon thousands of lines, and extirpate the projects that are wasteful. (How could he find the time? How would he know on a reading which were wasteful? )
 Maybe we shouldn't pay much mind when Senator McCain promises to embarrass legislators who want pork for their districts. I imagine that he may want to have a few friends on the Hill, and I notice a lot of new highways in Arizona on my frequent trips there.
 Then there is that aspect of the war against Washington in which candidates -- very often, my fellow Republicans -- rage against the machine of regulation. Indeed, this is a constant refrain of the conservatives I call my pals. Regulation is stifling growth and entrepreneurship, they say.
 With respect, I don't see it. Look at the major debacles in the economy in the past quarter-century. The junk-bond scandal of the 1980s was largely a result of a failure of regulation. The tech boom of the 1990s and the subsequent bust were greatly facilitated by a lack of regulation over fiduciary behavior by underwriters and investment banks. The problem was not too much regulation, but far too little.
 OR look at the current financial madness caused by wildly imprudent lending by major banks and investment banks. Basically, a major piece of deregulation, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, overturned most of the laws that had kept commercial banks and investment banks separate. This made it much easier for monster-size banks to lay down enormous bets on the direction of housing prices. 
 When these bets turned out to be wrong, the losses to the banks and their stockholders were staggering. (Naturally, those who approved these wagers left, if they left at all, with monster-size severance. You and I will pick up the monster-size bill in many different ways.)
 My point is that Washington -- that is, the federal government -- is not really to blame for all of our current problems. (One glaring exception is the war in Iraq.) Or, to put a finer point upon it, in some ways Washington was not doing too much, but should have been doing more -- meaning more regulation and more prosecution.
 I know that it's all just politics and that politicians will say a lot to be elected. But it's good to know the truth, too. The government is just a lot of men and women. Most of them are working hard, trying to do their best and not stealing anything. Most are modestly paid, and sometimes they wear uniforms, carrying M-4s and risking their lives for us. 
 Washington is not the problem. Human nature is the problem, and that's going to be a tough nut to crack. That's the machine to rage against. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHILIP ANDERSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (87%); BUDGETS (84%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (76%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); ALCOHOLS (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (64%); BIOFUELS (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (60%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (60%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



353 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Another Season, Another Market

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL. 
E-mail: bigdeal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AS the fall real estate season gets under way, buyers and sellers will have to contemplate a market in which average prices have begun to drift modestly lower and the national economic mood is grim. 
 A review of closing co-op and condominium prices in July and August shows average Manhattan closing prices off 7 percent in the third quarter to date, and median prices off 6 percent, compared with the previous quarter, but above the levels of a year ago. 
 These figures exclude sponsor sales at two hugely expensive condo projects -- 15 Central Park West at West 62nd Street, and the conversion of the Plaza Hotel on Fifth Avenue -- that have driven up average prices in the last few quarters.
 Brokers said that over all, well-priced apartments were continuing to sell. Hall F. Willkie, the president of Brown Harris Stevens, said his brokerage firm was finding that prices were essentially flat. The number of deals his firm was doing was off 16 percent compared with the same time last year, he said, but with prices up over the same period, the total value of sales was ''only down a couple of percent.''
 Michele Kleier, the president of Gumley Haft Kleier, a Manhattan brokerage firm, says overpriced apartments that came on the market last spring are still lingering, while sellers are spending more time staging apartments and buyers are taking more time to make decisions. 
 But over the summer, there was something of a reverse 15 Central Park West effect: there was a surge in sponsor sales of lower-priced apartments in less expensive neighborhoods, like Lower Manhattan, Harlem and East Harlem. This would have the effect of lowering average and median prices somewhat.
 A surge in sales of one-bedrooms and studios and other lower-priced apartments appeared concentrated in relatively few buildings. There were 333 transactions for less than $1 million in 16 buildings, including 47 transactions at the Kalahari, a condominium at 40 West 116th Street in Harlem, and 46 at 90 William Street in Lower Manhattan. 
 In East Harlem, David Petterson, who owns a Web design business, and his girlfriend, Veni Ercegovic, who works in the fashion industry, paid $525,000 for an apartment on the eighth floor of the Aura, a new condominium at 330 East 109th Street. They are among 14 buyers who paid less than $1 million for apartments there. 
 Mr. Petterson said ''it was an upgrade'' from a studio on the Upper East Side to a one-bedroom with a balcony in a sleek modern building of glass and brick with a gym and a garden with a hot tub. 
 Jonathan J. Miller, an appraiser who prepares market reports for Prudential Douglas Elliman, said the decline in aggregate prices was a combination of seasonal trends and weaker conditions. But he said he was worried that the market might deteriorate next year, if the economy weakened and Wall Street bonuses were cut sharply. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (50%); FASHION & APPAREL (50%)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (56%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



354 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: A Certain Sense of Deja Vu For One Crash Survivor

BYLINE: By MICHAEL PARRISH

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
In 2005, Erik Summers walked away from a deadly commuter train crash in Los Angeles. On Friday, he and several other riders on the Ventura County Metrolink line whom he frequently shares his trip with did it again. 
 At least 25 people were killed and scores more injured, some seriously, when a Metrolink train and a Union Pacific freight train collided during the afternoon rush hour on Friday.
 Mr. Summers and his fellow riders were on the same Metrolink line on a January morning three years ago when the train plowed into a pickup truck left on the tracks by a man who police officials said was trying to get the attention of his estranged wife by causing a catastrophic accident. The man, Juan M. Alvarez, was convicted in June of 11 counts of first-degree murder in that crash.
 Mr. Summers, who commutes daily from his home in Simi Valley to downtown Los Angeles, where he works as a facilities manager, said that in the first crash, ''I got a bump on my head.''
 The accident on Friday was rougher, he said.
 ''Instant impact -- just an automatic stop,'' he said in a telephone interview on Saturday.
 He and his traveling companions were moved to a makeshift triage center on the lawn of Chatsworth Hills Academy, where they were treated for minor injuries. Mr. Summers, who said he had a cut lip, neck pain and bruises all over, was allowed to go home with a friend who picked him up at the high school. 
 Mr. Summers said that with the earlier wreck, he knew the train had derailed because it kept moving and he could hear rocks bouncing against the undercarriage. This time, without warning, he said he found himself ''flying over a table and seats.'' 
 But he said he was in a better position than most because he was sitting in the back of the train. 
 ''Since my first day of rail commuting, I've always ridden in the back car, for fear of a head-on collision,'' he said. ''I guess I've done one smart thing.'' 
 On Saturday, he said he was planning to visit an urgent care center but expected to go back to work on Monday -- on the train.
 ''Economically, I have to take it,'' he said. ''But you have to think twice about it now.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (91%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (78%); MURDER (77%); CONTUSIONS (77%); NECK DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); INTERVIEWS (68%); URGENT CARE CENTERS (65%); POLICE FORCES (55%)

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (57%)

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (57%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



355 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: As Hurricane Ike Lashed Galveston, a Memory of the Great Storm of 1900

BYLINE: Compiled by THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
AS HURRICANE IKE LASHED GALVESTON, A MEMORY OF THE GREAT STORM OF 1900
 More than a million Texans had fled their homes by Friday night as Hurricane Ike churned toward Galveston and Houston. The storm rekindled memories of the hurricane that struck Galveston on Sept. 8, 1900, killing more than 6,000 people. 
 In his book ''Isaac's Storm: A Man, a Time and the Deadliest Hurricane in History,'' Erik Larson tells of the fate of St. Mary's Orphanage. 
 The 10 sisters who ran the place herded all 93 children into the chapel. Sister M. Camillus Tracy, 31 years old, the mother superior, ordered the other sisters to tie lengths of clothesline to the youngest children, then tie one end around their waists. They formed chains of six to eight children each, roped together like miniature climbing parties. A few older children, among them Will Murney, Albert Campbell and Francis Bulnavic remained free. Sister Camillus led the children in hymns, including the children's favorite, ''Queen of the Waves.''
 The water rose. The children felt the concussion of each breaker as it struck the front of the building. The sisters drew the children to the girls' dormitory at the back of the building, away from the beach. They heard the crash of wood and brick behind them as the boys' dormitory fell into the Gulf. The storm advanced through the building quickly and systematically, as if hunting the children. The chapel disappeared. Windows shattered. Hallways rose and fell like drawbridges. The children sang.
 The sea and wind burst into the dormitory. In seconds, the building failed. Ninety children and all 10 sisters died. Only Will, Albert and Francis survived, all by catching hold of the same floating tree. 
 Later, a rescuer found one toddler's corpse on the beach. He tried lifting the child. A length of clothesline leaped from the sand, then tightened. He pulled the line. Another child emerged. The line continued into the sand. He uncovered eight children and a nun.
 Sister Camillus had hoped the clothesline would save the children, but it was the clothesline, rescuers saw, that caused so many to die, tangling them in submerged wreckage.
 WHO NEEDS A PC?
 The Economist finds an interesting twist to the explosion of Internet use in China and other developing nations.
 The number of mobile phones that can access the Internet is growing at a phenomenal rate, especially in the developing world. In China, for example, over 73 million people, or 29 percent of all Internet users in the country, use mobile phones to get online. And the number of people doing so grew by 45 percent in the six months to June -- far higher than the rate of access growth using laptops, according to the China Internet Network Information Center.
 This year China overtook America as the country with the largest number of Internet users -- currently over 250 million. And China also has some 600 million mobile-phone subscribers, more than any other country, so the potential for the mobile Internet is enormous. Companies that stake their reputations on being at the technological forefront understand this. Last year Lee Kai-fu, Google's president in China, announced that Google was redesigning its products for a market where ''most Chinese users who touch the mobile internet will have no PC at all.''
 THE MEANING OF PORN
 Ross Douthat, in the October issue of The Atlantic, discusses the greater realism of modern pornography. 
 Over the past three decades, the VCR, on-demand cable service and the Internet have completely overhauled the ways in which people interact with porn. Innovation has piled on innovation, making modern pornography a more immediate, visceral and personalized experience. Nothing in the long history of erotica compares with the way millions of Americans experience porn today, and our moral intuitions are struggling to catch up. As we try to make sense of the brave new world that VHS and streaming video have built, we might start by asking a radical question: Is pornography use a form of adultery?
 THE TOOTH FAIRY, SQUEEZED 
 Lewis Carter, writing in The Telegraph of London, reports that the economic downturn has put a crimp in the tooth fairy's generosity.
 The average amount left under a pillow for a tooth has dropped from $:1.22 to 87 pence in the past six months, according to research.
 The figures, from milk producer Cravendale, also show that 38 percent of British children do not get any money from the tooth fairy. ...
 Dr. Nigel Carter, chief executive of the British Dental Health Foundation, said: ''The tooth fairy's visits are part and parcel of growing up for most children so it's disappointing to learn that she's not been able to fulfill her duties lately. ...
 ''Hopefully the tooth fairy can weather the current economic climate and we'll see her return to top form soon.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AFTERMATH: Galveston was leveled by a hurricane that struck in 1900. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); ORPHANS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); BEACHES (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); BRAIN INJURIES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON TEXANS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GALVESTON, TX, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



356 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: We Got Trouble

BYLINE: By JONATHAN TEPPERMAN. 
Jonathan Tepperman is an assistant managing editor of Newsweek International.

 BODY:
THE LIMITS OF POWER
 The End of American Exceptionalism
 By Andrew J. Bacevich
 206 pp. Metropolitan Books/ Henry Holt & Company. $24
 Andrew J. Bacevich thinks our political system is busted. In ''The Limits of Power: The End of American Exceptionalism,'' he argues that the country's founding principle -- freedom -- has become confused with appetite, turning America's traditional quest for liberty into an obsession with consumption, the never-ending search for more. To accommodate this hunger, pandering politicians have created an informal empire of supply, maintaining it through constant brush-fire wars. Yet the foreign-policy apparatus meant to manage that empire has grown hideously bloated and has led the nation into one disaster after another. The latest is Iraq: in Bacevich's mind, the crystallization of all that's gone wrong with the American system. 
 In the dog days of the George W. Bush era, as the fighting drags on in Afghanistan and Iraq and global food, energy and economic crises mount, this argument has huge intuitive appeal, and indeed Bacevich's book has climbed the best-seller lists. The nation does seem to be in serious trouble. Figuring out how it got that way is important, and a root-and-branch rethink may be necessary to set things right. 
 That's just what Bacevich aims to provide. Hailing from what might be called the ultratraditionalist school of American foreign policy, Bacevich, who teaches history and international relations at Boston University, sees himself as a modern Jeremiah, railing at a fat and self-indulgent country that's lost its way. By his reckoning, things started going sideways at the end of World War II, when the United States first emerged as ''the strongest, the richest and . . . the freest nation in all the world.'' As American power expanded abroad, liberty grew at home. But the country's expectations soon exceeded its ability to satisfy them. At that point, Americans faced a choice: ''curb their appetites and learn to live within their means, or deploy . . . United States power in hopes of obliging others to accommodate'' them. You can guess which one Bacevich thinks Americans went for. 
 As its citizens were growing soft, the United States government was mutating as well. Responding to the shocks of the Communist revolution in China, the Soviets' atom bomb and the onset of the Korean War, Washington created a vast new permanent security apparatus, consisting of the Pentagon, the F.B.I., the C.I.A. (along with the smaller intelligence agencies) and the National Security Council. These bodies, and a compliant Congress, enabled a huge expansion in executive power. 
 Still, this new setup might have been fine, Bacevich argues, had it worked the way it was supposed to. But of course it didn't. The vast bureaucracy quickly proved more hindrance than help; individual agencies put their interests above the nation's; the generals just looked out for themselves and their particular services. Frustrated presidents from John Kennedy on turned to informal kitchen cabinets for advice, shutting out the newly established security system. And things quickly fell apart. In relatively short order we got the Bay of Pigs, Vietnam, the '70s oil crisis, Lebanon, Star Wars, the Persian Gulf war of 1991, Somalia, Kosovo and then, after 9/11, the ''Long War'' on terror, which has made conflict a ''permanent condition.'' Then came Iraq: proof, for Bacevich, of our political, economic and military rot. 
 As a story this all sounds plausible, but it unravels slightly on closer inspection. First, while Bacevich no doubt would describe himself as a realist, his nostalgia for the enlightened republic Americans supposedly enjoyed before World War II involves a large dose of myth-making. Excess consumption is hardly a postwar phenomenon, and even by the time John Quincy Adams warned against going ''abroad in search of monsters to destroy,'' American presidents were already violating the dictum. 
 Another sticking point is Bacevich's rhetoric. This short, punchy book is clearly meant as a polemic, and that's not necessarily bad. The problem is that certain of Bacevich's verbal tics, like his annoying references to America's supposed ''emperor-president,'' sound paranoid and ring false. They make it hard to take the argument seriously. 
 Which is a pity, for many of Bacevich's points are well taken, including his critique of the hypocrisy inherent in Americans' talk of their supposedly universal values. The same goes for his emphasis on the similarities between the policies of recent presidents. Bacevich's awareness of the continuities in American foreign policy is especially useful today, when Obamamania has convinced so many that everything will be different come November. According to Bacevich, it won't be, and he's probably right -- especially if the United States remains dependent on foreign oil, cheap Chinese goods and infinite credit. And special interests will no doubt continue to warp policy no matter who wins office. 
 Unfortunately, Bacevich is not very good at offering suggestions. Given the sweep of his attacks, the alternatives he comes up with are surprisingly small-bore: America should live within its means, pursue a more modest foreign policy, act to abolish nuclear weapons and combat global warming -- all sensible ideas but hardly the sort of grand transformation he says the country needs. Perhaps Bacevich doesn't feel he has to provide detailed answers because he sees himself more as a prophet than as a policy maker. But surely what we require today, more than broad condemnations of American consumerism, are very specific solutions to very specific problems. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT DORFMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (77%); KOREAN WAR (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); BESTSELLERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); WORLD WAR II (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (63%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (52%)

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

TITLE: Limits of Power, The (Book)>; Limits of Power, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



357 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; POSTING; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Sitting Pretty by the Sea

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
QUEENS has suffered a greater drop in home sales over the last year than the other boroughs. Significantly more people are losing their houses to foreclosure there than in the rest of the city, data show -- particularly in the southern section.
 But there is a bright spot, at least in Arverne: a 117-acre mixed-use development of houses, condominiums and stores called Arverne by the Sea, on the Rockaway Peninsula along the Atlantic, between Beach 62nd and 80th Streets. 
 The $1 billion project already has four of six planned microneighborhoods: the Sands, Ocean Breeze, Palmers Landing and the Breakers. It has continued to post strong sales and low foreclosure rates, even as similar nearby developments have struggled, according to brokers and community leaders, as well as its Long Island-based developer, Benjamin-Beechwood, a partnership between the Benjamin Development Company and the Beechwood Organization. 
 Those successes seem ready to be repeated with the fifth neighborhood, the Dunes -- given its brisk sales pace.
 Since June, when marketing began for the 100 homes that will make up the first phase in the Dunes, more than 50 have sold, said Gerry Romski, project manager for Benjamin-Beechwood. 
 Like all the houses in Arverne, those at the Dunes are attached two-families. Therein lies one factor in their popularity, said Mr. Romski: rental income can offset mortgage costs. Also, buyers of the buildings, which list for $569,000 to $995,000, receive 20-year property-tax abatements, because Arverne is in an urban-renewal area. 
 Mr. Romski described the homes as fancier than many in Queens, with 2,800 to 3,400 square feet across three stories, and details like central air-conditioning.
 ''These aren't the kind with air-conditioners built into the outside walls,'' he said, adding that the houses, now under construction, would be ready in a year.
 Outdoors, the unusual mix of suburban and urban motifs -- velvety picket-fenced lawns line compact, walkable blocks -- may make it more appealing than the competition in the area.
 Still, there is no escaping the large, barren tracts a few blocks away, cleared since the 1970s. 
 Benjamin-Beechwood vows that these are about to morph. Construction starts on a retail plaza at the A train stop at Beach 67th Street next month, and 50 percent of the 11 retail spaces are leased, Mr. Romski said -- although he did not provide specifics. 
 Next year the plaza, which was a city requirement, is to be joined across the street by a 55,000-square-foot Super Stop and Shop grocery store. Benjamin-Beechwood was also required to put up the Peninsula Preparatory Academy charter school, which opened last week. 
 Its final phase -- the Tides, with 886 luxury condos -- is planned for 2010. 
 For some community leaders, Arverne by the Sea's steady progress is a welcome improvement for the area, which is lined with empty tracts.
 Part of that extra space had been earmarked for Arverne East, a proposal for 1,650 homes, most market-rate, along a windswept 92-acre stretch from Beach 32nd Street to 56th Streets. The project, which included restaurants, theaters and a nature preserve, was to have broken ground this summer
 But in April, a spokeswoman for the developers -- the Bluestone Organization; Triangle Equities; and L & M Equities -- announced that the deteriorating housing market had necessitated at least a yearlong delay. 
 In a recent telephone interview, Eric Bluestone, one partner, cited city bureaucracy in the snags besetting Arverne East. 
 ''This is a complicated project that requires a myriad of approvals,'' he said. ''We are comfortable knowing that Arverne by the Sea was successful.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AGAINST THE TIDE: The Breakers, like the rest of Arverne by the Sea in Queens, seems healthy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA MCALPIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); HVAC SYSTEMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); SUBURBS (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

COMPANY: BENJAMIN DEVELOPMENT CO INC (69%)

INDUSTRY: SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



358 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2380 words

HEADLINE: Writing the Myth of Robert Moses

BYLINE: By BEN GIBBERD. 
Ben Gibberd is the author of ''New York Waters: Profiles From the Edge,'' with the photographer Randy Duchaine.

 BODY:
ARTHUR NERSESIAN, a 49-year-old playwright, poet and novelist whose wavy gray hair gives him the look of a 1960s English professor, rummaged through the black messenger bag lying next to him in a booth at the Moonstruck Diner in the East Village. Then he gleefully pulled out what appeared to be three coverless, battered paperbacks and slid them across the table.
 Closer analysis revealed these volumes to be, in fact, three parts of one eviscerated book, taped together and covered with handwritten notes. Stacked one on top of the other, they formed a substantial brick whose spines, in bold red capitals, collectively revealed the title, ''The Power Broker,'' Robert Caro's 1,100-plus-page 1974 biography of Robert Moses, New York's master builder. 
 In their boldness, Mr. Nersesian's cuts seemed the equal of any of the highways or housing projects created by the book's formidable subject. 
 ''When I read the book, I just tore into it,'' Mr. Nersesian recalled happily. ''I ripped it up so I could deal with each piece like an individual novel. It was a heat wave, and I went to the beach about 30 times that summer, and this was my sole companion. 
 ''I wouldn't even go with anyone,'' he added. ''I was just having an affair with this book.''
 The progeny to date of the love affair that began in 2006 are two novels in a projected five-volume series titled ''The Five Books of Moses.'' They present a fictionalized account of Moses and his impact on New York, and are being published by Akashic Books, a small New York press that specializes in adventurous urban writing often overlooked by more mainstream houses.
 The first novel, ''The Swing Voter of Staten Island,'' was published last year and has sold 5,000 to 7,000 copies in hardback, according to Akashic. The second, ''The Sacrificial Circumcision of the Bronx,'' which deals in part with the building of the Cross Bronx Expressway in the 1950s, will appear next month. 
 Remarkably, given the man's vast impact on New York, the novels appear to be the first fictionalized portrayals of Moses to be published, and among a notably short list of artistic works in any medium about him. 
 In 1990, the visual artist Theodora Skipitares created ''The Radiant City,'' an Off Broadway play in which singing and dancing puppets delivered a harsh and surreal critique of Moses and his legacy. In 2005, the theatrical group Les Freres Corbusier tackled Moses' legacy in another Off Broadway production, a multimedia revue titled ''Boozy: The Life, Death and Subsequent Vilification of Le Corbusier and, More Importantly, Robert Moses.'' But other than that, the creative arts have oddly remained silent in the face of such a Titanic figure.
 Mr. Nersesian (pronounced nur-SEHZ-ee-un) thinks this scarcity has as much to do with the daunting stature of Mr. Caro's Pulitzer Prize-winning work as with the scale of Moses' achievements. Despite growing revisionism about the ultimately negative conclusions reached by Mr. Caro, ''The Power Broker'' remains very much a holy text among nonfiction books about New York's infrastructure, a feeling Mr. Nersesian ardently shares. 
 ''It's just an amazing book, and it can almost be read like a novel,'' he said that day at the diner, gently stroking Mr. Caro's deconstructed oeuvre. ''I mean, how can you ever hope to get around that? It was one of those things that I really did not get into too quickly and I really had to stay away from until I was ready.'' 
 Trauma and Stability
 New York, in one form or another, has always been Mr. Nersesian's subject. Born and raised in the city, one of three sons of an Armenian-American father and a fifth-generation Irish-American mother, he lived in a succession of neighborhoods -- first Midtown and Brooklyn Heights with his family, then Times Square, Chelsea and the Upper West Side on his own -- with each move being the result of an eviction. (The author's biography for Mr. Nersesian's 2002 novel, ''Suicide Casanova,'' consists simply of a list of these evictions.) 
 In 1982, he found stability of sorts in a one-bedroom apartment in the East Village, where he has lived ever since. Unsurprisingly, though, the protagonists of all his works, which include four plays and six novels apart from the Moses books, are invariably harassed New Yorkers, fending off an all-encompassing city that constantly threatens to devour them. 
 Although Mr. Nersesian's parents were both professionals -- his father was a public school English teacher and his mother a social worker -- his early years were precarious. The family's move from their Midtown apartment when Mr. Nersesian was just 10 was the result of an eviction to make way for an office tower, something he described as ''incredibly traumatic.'' The following year, his parents separated.
 Upon his father's death in 1977, the son, then 18, found himself alone. After graduating from Midwood High School in Brooklyn, Mr. Nersesian held a number of temporary jobs, including selling books on West Fourth Street and working as an usher and manager in a series of East Village movie theaters, where, using his portable typewriter, he wrote in the theaters' offices during screenings.
 Not unexpectedly, a tenuous quality fills the plays and novels about downtown life that Mr. Nersesian began to publish in the early 1990s, a sense that his down-at-heel characters were the victims of mysterious forces -- personal, political and social -- they could not comprehend. Reviewing Mr. Nersesian's 2000 novel, ''Manhattan Loverboy,'' the literary journal Rain Taxi summed up what might be said of all Mr. Nersesian's work: ''This book is full of lies, and the author makes deception seem like the subtext of modern life, or at least America's real pastime.'' 
 In his 1992 play ''Rent Control,'' Mr. Nersesian incorporated an experience he had when he returned to the office tower that had replaced his childhood apartment. 
 ''I tried to go to the exact same space,'' he recalled, ''and it turned out to be the romance division of Random House or something. I walked in and the secretary said, 'Can I help you?' And I think I tried to convey to her that this was where I lived for the first 10 years of my life; this space here was where I was bathed in the sink. And she looked at me like I was a nut.'' 
 Beginning in the mid-1980s, Mr. Nersesian found an unusual place to write: the Empire State Building. Three of his uncles had a law office there, first on the third floor and then on the 18th. Mr. Nersesian discovered that its anodyne, gray-carpeted environment was the ideal place to hatch his fevered stories of downtown life. He also took advantage of the computers and the limitless supplies of paper, unable to afford either himself. 
 Working in the famous building since 1984 has had a definite, if intangible, effect on his writing. 
 ''Writing there gave me a kind of historical awareness, as well as an added awareness of being a New Yorker,'' he said. ''I was dating a woman who was also a writer, and we would meet up at the office around 6 and just stay there till 5 or 6 in the morning. Sometimes we'd eat in the office and take intermittent naps on the sofa. Then we'd go and have breakfast at Kiev.'' 
 One sweltering summer night, he stripped down to his underwear and, deep in his work, lost track of time until the presence of a startled secretary at his side brought him to his senses. Nor would this be the first time the forces of the straight world were surprised by the Bohemian throwback in their midst.
 On weekends, Mr. Nersesian often held auditions for his plays in the building, and once even staged a full rehearsal there. 
 ''We put ads in Backstage and I actually had a producer and a director in there,'' he recalled with relish. ''We had a really big hallway, and we rehearsed in the hallway until a phalanx of security guards came out, seeing these strange goings-on, and threw everybody out.''
 Mr. Nersesian's older brother, Burke, a software programmer who lives in Brooklyn Heights, acknowledged that his brother might be viewed as eccentric, but saw him through the prism of close attachment. ''The thing you have to understand is we were not a normal family,'' he said. ''And I'd say Arthur was no more different than the rest of us. We'd be watching commercials in the '60s for things like Pepsi and we'd go, 'We don't look like any of those families.' '' 
 Poets and Prostitutes
 Unlike many New Yorkers who inhabited the East Village of the 1980s, Mr. Nersesian seemed to remember every aspect of that gritty and often dangerous time with fondness. Even as he described the endless parade of prostitutes down East 12th Street or the bonfires set by the homeless in Tompkins Square Park, there was a palpable tenderness to his voice.
 ''There was a sense of community there,'' Mr. Nersesian said. ''I couldn't walk down the street without saying hello to someone. You'd see Allen Ginsberg all over the place, and you'd see the other Beats. 
 ''I wasn't the biggest fan of the Beats, but there was an exemplary quality to the artist as citizen. You think about artists today in our society, and they're kind of removed. You don't really know them. When Ginsberg died, a definitive quality from the East Village -- at least from my East Village -- was gone.'' 
 Perhaps inevitably, the East Village of today, with its fashionable bars and restaurants and its gleaming glass towers, fills him with despair. 
 ''Oh, God, we're living in a hell that I can't even begin to describe!'' Mr. Nersesian said mournfully that day at the diner. ''It's amazing how memory really does become a kind of curse. If I was just coming to the city today, I'd probably think, 'Oh, this is a really interesting place,' but it's trying to tell people, 'You know, there was a war fought here, a strange economic, cultural battle that went on, and I saw so many wonderful people lost among the casualties.' '' 
 Brother Against Brother
 At least on one level, the Moses books seem to be Mr. Nersesian's way of dealing with such wholesale loss of memory and the ensuing cultural changes. 
 While his previous novels were urban picaresques following the travails of an individual, the Moses books envision an entire, alternate New York in which Mr. Nersesian has felt free to take great liberties with history, geography and politics. 
 In the first Moses book, ''The Swing Voter of Staten Island,'' ''old'' New York has been destroyed by a dirty bomb and an ersatz imitation has been built by the government in the middle of the Nevada desert, where social and political undesirables have been dumped. The second book reveals this destruction to have been the result of a bitter feud between Robert Moses and his brother, Paul, a real historical figure. Mr. Caro devotes an entire chapter of ''The Power Broker'' to the tortured relationship between the two.
 In Mr. Caro's account, Paul Moses, an idealistic electrical engineer as brilliant as his brother, was cut out of his parents' will and prevented from obtaining employment in New York by Robert Moses. Paul Moses died penniless at the age of 80 in a decrepit walk-up apartment at a time when his brother held sway over tens of thousands of newly built city apartments. 
 To all these details Mr. Nersesian has remained faithful, while filling in the blanks to suit his fictional purposes; in the author's account, a young Paul Moses becomes a guerrilla fighter during the Mexican Civil War and later lives in East Tremont in the Bronx as his brother's Cross Bronx Expressway bulldozes its way toward his apartment. 
 Mr. Caro, reached by phone at his summer house in East Hampton, where he was working on the fourth and final volume of his biography of President Lyndon Johnson, expressed both amusement and concern at some of Mr. Nersesian's embroidering of his work.
 ''The story of Robert and Paul Moses is so real and so true, and such a terrible thing to happen to a human being, that I hate the thought of someone making up a part of it, of fictionalizing it,'' Mr. Caro said. ''Fictional things should be things viewed as fictional. It's using real people.''
 But was he surprised by Mr. Nersesian's choice of subject matter?
 ''No, not at all,'' Mr. Caro replied. ''When I was writing 'The Power Broker,' I was told over and over again that no one would want to read about Robert Moses. But I always felt he was so integral to the history of the city that if I pursued it fully, people would want to read it.'' 
 One day a few weeks ago, Mr. Nersesian, wearing shorts and a frayed T-shirt, took a stroll down Fourth Avenue in the East Village and tried to define his complicated relationship with the man who has obsessed him for so long.
 ''My poor girlfriend has had to suffer so much because of Robert Moses,'' he said. ''We'll travel around the city and I'll say, 'Robert Moses built that,' 'Robert Moses built this,' and it'll reach the point where I'm about to speak and she'll say, 'Don't say it!' 
 ''She honestly thinks I love Robert Moses, and I honestly don't,'' he added. ''But credit where credit's due. You can't just deny all the things he did.'' 
 The girlfriend in question, a 34-year-old poet and translator named Margarita Shalina, was born in Leningrad in the former Soviet Union and was, he said, ''far more sensitive to the bully nature of it all, where there were Robert Moseses everywhere.''
 At the entrance to St. Mark's Bookshop on Third Avenue, where Ms. Shalina works as the store's small-press buyer, Mr. Nersesian pushed his way in.
 Ms. Shalina, wearing denim overalls and glasses, greeted him with a kiss, but rolled her eyes when she discovered the topic of conversation. As they stood in front of the store's New York section, Mr. Caro's book conspicuously on display between them, the two batted their arguments back and forth for a while. Ms. Shalina opposes grand development schemes imposed from above, and favors smaller projects determined by individual neighborhoods.
 Finally, Mr. Nersesian laughed and ran his hand through his wavy hair. ''On the one hand, I see the great phallic master builder and she's like, 'No, it's all about Jane Jacobs, the low-scale community builder,' '' he said. ''Maybe it really is a boy-girl thing. I don't know.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''My poor girlfriend has had to suffer so much,'' Arthur Nersesian said of his enchantment with Robert Moses. Of his planned five novels about Moses, one is published, the second due next month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW HENDERSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CY1)
From editorial work on the subway, above, to a pilgrimage to Moses' grave in Woodlawn Cemetery, far right, to a visit to the Cross Bronx Expressway, a Moses project, below, Arthur Nersesian is all Moses all the time. Near right, a detail of the cover of his second Moses book. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIM KOWALSKI/AKASHIC BOOKS)
For years, Mr. Nersesian wrote his works at night in the Empire State Building, courtesy of generous relatives who had a law office there. For one of his plays, he held a rehearsal in the hallway, until the security guards arrived. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW HENDERSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CY10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER (89%); POETRY (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); PUBLISHING (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); WEATHER (66%); DANCE (62%); VISUAL ARTS (60%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



359 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: Staying in Galveston, a Park Bench for Shelter

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA and JOHN SCHWARTZ; Ian Urbina reported from Galveston, Tex., and John Schwartz from New York. Thayer Evans contributed reporting from Galveston.

DATELINE: GALVESTON, Tex. 

 BODY:
Those who make the barrier island here their home know this: Nature tries to wipe them out now and then. They live with that knowledge every day, though it does not come to the forefront of their thinking unless a storm is on the way.
 The threat is anything but theoretical, as Daryl Thompson learned Saturday after making what he admitted was a bad decision.
 Not only did he choose to ride out Hurricane Ike, but he did so outdoors. ''I thought about going to the shelter,'' Mr. Thompson, who is homeless, said as he pushed his bike with two large water-logged bags balanced on top. ''But I waited too long, then I was trapped.''
 Mr. Thompson said that at one point the wind was so strong that he kept getting blown off his feet. So he lay down underneath a park bench. 
 ''I thought I might die,'' he said. ''This thing tossed me like a salad.''
 The storm tossed much of the island the same way.
 Along the seaway, wooden debris was stacked up like barricades, and things were askew in that way that only big storms can accomplish.
 Dozens of palm trees were bent over. A boat sat in the middle of a road near 49th Street, even though no water flowed down the street. At the cemetery, statues of saints and the heads of white tombstones barely extended above muddy water. 
 Coast Guard helicopters buzzed overhead in an effort to check on rescue missions in response to more than 100 distress calls that came in during the night.
 Late Saturday, city officials said there were no confirmed deaths, even though at least 17 buildings were destroyed. Property damage was ''in the millions, if not hundreds of millions,'' said the city manager, Steve LeBlanc.
 For residents of Galveston, which lost 6,000 people in 1900 in the nation's worst natural disaster, there is a grim calculation with each storm: Stay or go? 
 John Dundee, whose family has lived on the island for five generations, decided to stick out this storm after the misery of the 2005 evacuation for Hurricane Rita. 
 ''My wife and I sat up in traffic for 27 hours, just trying to make it to my children's house in Waco,'' Mr. Dundee said. This time, they decided, ''we felt we might be safer here than out on the highway,'' and they left their home on the unprotected west end of the island for his mother's home closer to town.
 But then the surge predictions grew more and more ominous. 
 ''We went back and forth and back and forth,'' Mr. Dundee said. By the time they decided to go, the water on the streets was waist deep -- too much even for his Jeep.
 Speaking from his home Saturday morning, a clearly relieved Mr. Dundee said, ''We got beat up pretty bad, but everybody got through fine.'' 
 On Friday night, just hours before Hurricane Ike came ashore, Galveston's mayor, Lyda Ann Thomas, spoke by cellphone from the San Luis Hotel about why people stay in such a place, and why people go there. 
 Galveston has been on a building binge, with more than $6 billion in recent development -- even after Hurricane Katrina underscored the risks of the Gulf Coast. The city's economy is on an upswing. And, as Ms. Thomas likes to say, ''It only took 100 years.''
 Ms. Thomas's grandfather was I. H. Kempner, one of the men who helped revive the city after the storm in 1900. She said the risk was ''just part of living here.''
 ''The gulf sits here,'' Ms. Thomas said, ''and at any moment -- like today -- it can rise up in wrath and overwhelm you.''
 ''We've lost a lot today,'' she added. ''But you know that's a part of our history.'' 
 Other residents, too, said they would ride the storm out again if given the option.
 Ivy and Mike Gonzales said they and their home had made it as they wandered out from the house, on Broadway. They added that it would have been much easier had the city not turned off the water and gas.
 ''We understand that they needed to take precautions, but I need a cup of coffee something vicious and the toilet needs flushing,'' said Ms. Gonzalez, adding that a couple of shingles had blown off their home but there was no other damage. 
 The police had their frustrations, too. Southwest of Galveston, officers said that one man from Surfside Beach was the only resident who did not evacuate the highly damaged area. He was drunk when they reached him on Saturday morning, the authorities said. 
 ''We have a lot more important things to do, but we have our duty, too,'' said a city police officer who asked not to be named.
 As the skies cleared Saturday, a surprising number of people meandered through the streets, greeting one another with proud smiles, looking for working telephones or trying to get a pack of cigarettes.
 Along Broadway and 29th, two teenagers kayaked on their way to check on a friend's house. Another boy walked up 21st Street with a fishing pole. ''I'm not trying to catch anything,'' said the boy, Nick Parker, 11. ''I'm just making sure there are no water moccasins.'' 
 Nick explained that he and his parents had waited too long to evacuate and had been trapped in their home. The water flooded their basement, he said, but no one was hurt. ''Mostly, I'm here looking for someone else to play with,'' he said. ''Hurricanes are boring. Maybe it's time to open the schools back up.'' 
 At Ball High School, which served as an evacuation shelter and where nearly 300 people rode out the storm, Michael W. Fox, who was staying at the shelter, said that all had gone smoothly, even though around midnight the first-floor auditorium was evacuated to the second floor as water flooded the building.
 ''It was civil and all, but by morning all anyone wanted to do was get out and check on their homes to see how bad things looked,'' Mr. Fox said as he waded through waist-deep water back to his home.
 As she began pulling down the plywood from the front of her house on Avenue O, less than a half-mile from the water, Sara Rampton, 54, said her house was fine. 
 But tears began streaming down her face as she tried to explain what she did lose. 
 ''My dog ran, and I lost my only photograph of my grandfather,'' said Ms. Rampton, explaining that as she tried to take her German shepherd, Gabriel, to a shelter when the storm started, he got spooked by the winds and bolted out the front door. She added that during the storm, water flooded part of her living room and the wind blew down her only photograph of her deceased grandfather. 
 ''You can replace everything else, and I'm sure they will rebuild,'' she said, wiping her face. ''They can't rebuild all the personal things that get lost.''
 In 1900, the Great Storm, as it became known in the days before each hurricane was given a human name, changed one of the nation's most prosperous cities into a backwater.
 That storm stopped what seemed to be an inexorable rise for Galveston, which considered itself a rival to New Orleans. It was the city with an opera house that had hosted Sarah Bernhardt, the city with the state's first telephone and its first electric light. And then, the storm.
 ''When I was growing up, people didn't like to talk about it,'' said Paul Burka, the senior executive editor of Texas Monthly magazine and a ''B.O.I.'' -- clubby old Galveston's abbreviation for ''born on the island.'' The 1900 storm ''was like a skeleton in the family closet,'' he said, because ''that was the day that Galveston lost its destiny.''
 But the city did not stand still. Civic leaders like Kempner and John Sealy traveled to New York and Washington to persuade government and financial leaders that the island would soon be open for business again and to establish lines of credit.
 Enormous undertakings followed. Galveston began building a seawall that is now 10 miles long and some 17 feet high, to break storm surges from the Gulf of Mexico. Workers raised the city's buildings on jacks -- some by more than 10 feet -- and filled in the space underneath with dredged soil.
 The city survived, but it did not boom again. Its economic prominence was quickly grabbed by Houston, which dug a deepwater ship channel that allowed business to bypass the risky island port.
 But life went on, and Galvestonians came to think of the threat of occasional hurricanes as something they could live with.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Peggy Eisworth in Pearland, Tex., after falling in the dark. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAYRA BELTRAN/HOUSTON CHRONICLE)(A1)
Angela Niccolai and her daughter Corrine, 3, were helped on Saturday by officials on a game warden rescue boat after staying in Galveston through Hurricane Ike.
 The scene on 35th Street on the west end of Galveston Island, and a plaque commemorating the construction of the Galveston seawall after the storm of 1900. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEATRICE de GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); HURRICANES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); CITIES (68%); HELICOPTERS (50%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GALVESTON, TX, USA (95%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



360 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Are We Experienced Governing Happens

BYLINE: By TONY KNOWLES

 BODY:
As a former two-term governor of Alaska, I was asked to describe, without reference to any candidate, how holding the office of governor might prepare one for the office of president. I believe it is what one does in office, not the holding of office, that prepares one for future public service. 
 There are some events that can define a governorship that happen outside of anyone's control. On my watch, these included mobilizing the Alaska National Guard to protect the Alaska pipeline and oil terminal during the tragic events of 9/11 and rescuing an Alaskan ferry seized by Canadian fishermen.
 Other events are within your control, especially those that bring about change -- like leading negotiations for international treaties to protect salmon and control pollution in the Arctic, and responsibly opening millions of acres of federal land in the National Petroleum Reserve for oil and natural gas exploration. 
 For this to happen, a governor needs to appoint a cabinet of talented, ethical public servants and forge them into an integrated team. The governor must challenge his team with a vision, hold it accountable for results and fight for the resources to get the job done. This is the most important challenge of being governor. These are the experiences that define a governorship and provide a record of qualifications for other public service.
 Public safety, education, transportation and economic development must be the meat and potatoes of a governor's agenda. At the same time, no experience is more valuable than cutting the budget. For all eight years I was in office, I worked with a legislature to cut a budget, while spending more on education, children's health care and public safety. 
 A governor's priorities also must include Hubert Humphrey's moral test of how we treat ''those who are in the dawn of life, the children; those who are in the twilight of life, the elderly; and those who are in the shadows of life -- the sick, the needy and the handicapped.'' 
 My state has a partnership with the federal government to provide health care for children whose working parents cannot afford it. Giving incentives to families to continue to work is a moral, social and economic mandate. Yet today, sadly, fewer children in Alaska have a chance for this vital service than when it was initiated in 1998, even though the state now has huge surpluses as a result of the high price of oil. 
 Several years after I left office, a young man approached me at the grocery store. All he wanted to do was say thanks. He said that without the health care program, he and his wife never could have adopted their three young children because they could not have afforded the special health care they needed. That's the experience a president needs.
 -- TONY KNOWLES, the governor of Alaska from 1994 to 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); BUDGETS (88%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (86%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); FAMILY (71%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (70%); OIL EXPLORATION (70%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (70%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (70%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (68%); HEALTH CARE (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); ARCTIC (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



361 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET VENTURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: Finding Profits In a Distressed Market

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
NOT everyone is fretting about the beleaguered housing market. 
 For a growing number of investors, the spate of home foreclosures across the country -- a result of the mortgage crisis and drop in real estate values -- is creating extraordinary buying opportunities for distressed properties, not to mention a flood of how-to books, seminars and infomercials on finding the right deals.
 ''You'll probably never see anything like this in your lifetime again,'' said Gene Hacker, a broker for Century 21 Allstars in Brea, Calif., in Orange County, which specializes in bank-repossessed homes, or what are known in industry lingo as R.E.O.'s (for real estate owned). 
 ''With the rental market as strong as it is, and prices as low as they've been,'' he said, ''this is as good as it gets.'' 
 Indeed, Mr. Hacker has managed to profit nicely by sifting through the detritus. In the last three years, he has acquired three dozen or so foreclosed homes at discounted prices, mostly in North Carolina and Texas, which he has since resold or rented out. And he has seen a budding interest among clients looking to do the same.
 For them and others, there is no shortage of inventory. During August, for example, one in every 416 households, representing 303,879 homes, received a foreclosure filing (which could cover anything from a default notice to actual repossession of a house). That was a 27 percent jump from August 2007, according to a report last week from RealtyTrac, which follows home foreclosures. 
 ''We are, by almost anybody's estimation, at the highest level of foreclosure activity this country has ever seen,'' said Rick Sharga, a senior vice president of RealtyTrac, which is based in Irvine, Calif. He cited a recent report by the Center for American Progress, a liberal research institute in Washington, estimating that nearly 0.6 percent of all housing units in the United States are bank-owned, the same ratio as in 1930, during the Great Depression. 
 (Though not a panacea, the government bailout of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, announced this month, could help to slow the rise in foreclosures.)
 With many stock portfolios in the doldrums, many investors have been turning their attention toward the widening foreclosure real estate market as an investment alternative. 
 ''I'm just looking for the best returns,'' said Robert Burki, who has worked with Mr. Hacker to find investment properties. Mr. Burki says he has managed to earn $8,000 to $25,000 on each foreclosure property thus far.
 Distressed properties can typically be bought at discounts of 20 to 30 percent or more from their peak prices, according to market experts. Homes in stable areas where there was appreciation in the past can be especially good investments.
 Despite the potential for lofty gains, the foreclosure process can be daunting, especially for the neophyte. Finding good deals often requires plenty of preparation and persistence -- and, in some cases, willingness to profit from others' misfortune. 
 ''Foreclosure investing is not a get-rich-quick scheme,'' Mr. Sharga said. 
 Not all deals are alike, either. There are three stages of foreclosure, each of which presents different buying opportunities.
 The first phase is preforeclosure, which occurs when owners fall behind on their mortgage payments.
 ''You could probably get a bargain in preforeclosures,'' said John T. Reed, the publisher of Real Estate Investor's Monthly, a newsletter, ''but you have to be ready to pound the pavement.'' 
 By that he means persuading homeowners to sell and, quite possibly, competing with other investors with the same goal.
 Buyers can find preforeclosure and foreclosed properties by poring over the delinquency notices that lenders file with county courthouses or publish in local newspapers. They can also contact lenders directly. And online services including RealtyTrac and ForeclosurePoint, a Seattle-area data company, also provide lists of properties.
 An intrepid investor might trawl certain neighborhoods for prospects. ''You can drive around and look for homes that aren't taken care of,'' often a sign of financial difficulties inside, Mr. Reed said. But, he added, ''some people don't have the personality or the stomach to go door to door and talk someone into selling.''
 A more palatable option might be to work with the lenders on a short sale, in which a home is sold for less than what is owed on the mortgage. 
 In the next stage of foreclosure, homes in default are auctioned off. Here, too, bargains can be found, but the process can be risky. 
 For one thing, prospective bidders typically cannot inspect a property beforehand; it is sold ''as is.'' Investors say it's not unusual to discover after an auction that the property has been damaged, or that previous owners removed valuable items like lighting and plumbing fixtures or appliances.
 ''I've seen places with no kitchen -- the prior owners tore them out,'' said Mr. Hacker, who estimates that about three-quarters of distressed properties are in ''fairly poor condition, but they're not hopeless.''
 Auction participants face financial hurdles, too. Winning bidders need to have a nonrefundable down payment on hand -- usually 10 to 20 percent of the sale price -- and to arrange for financing within 30 days. 
 But the hardest part may be dealing with the fact that the sale may never come to fruition. ''Many auctions get postponed or called off,'' Mr. Sharga said. ''Historically, about 60 percent of property entering foreclosure would fall out before the auction. Of the remaining 40 percent, half would go to third parties and half to banks.'' 
 Bank-owned homes, or R.E.O.'s, include properties that didn't sell at auction. Some investors see these post-foreclosures, the third stage of foreclosure, as the best way to buy discounted property because no emotions are involved -- buyers deal only with the lender. They also consider them among the safest, because they can inspect the properties and might even be offered financing from the lender owners.
 ''It's sort of like a normal real estate deal, only with an unusual seller,'' Mr. Reed said. He noted that these homes might not be as attractively priced as homes sold in the other stages of foreclosure. 
 Mr. Hacker, the California broker, says that most lenders are willing to negotiate with buyers, but that some may be averse to letting a house go at far below prevailing market values -- which, he says, is not necessarily a bad thing. ''This prevents the market from spiraling downward,'' he said.
 While some people may recoil at the thought of making money from adversity, others argue that they are providing a useful service for both the hapless homeowner and the economy.
 ''The only way the real estate market is going to recover is to get rid of this high volume of distressed properties,'' said Chris Matty, the chief marketing officer of ForeclosurePoint.
 Matt Steel, a real estate investor and consultant from Bellevue, Wash., says he and the investors he works with often try to help those whose homes they buy. They might find new homes for them and pay the moving expenses, for example, or even rent the homes back to them. ''In today's market we're seeing people just walking away from their homes,'' he said. 
 Robert Lee, the chief executive and founder of Foreclosure Trackers of Huntington Beach, Calif., which provides services for foreclosure investors, says he helps owners remain in their homes and avoid foreclosure altogether. 
 Through private funds, Mr. Lee acquires defaulted loans directly from lenders at deep discounts. Because he often buys in areas where equity has been ravaged by the housing slump, he starts off by resetting the value of the property after receiving a ''broker price opinion.'' 
 Say he finds a property with a $600,000 mortgage, but the broker opinion determines that the property is worth only $500,000 in the current market. He might offer $300,000 for the note. If his bid is accepted, he becomes the owner of the mortgage. He then contacts the homeowner and offers to cut the principal owed to, say, $400,000 on the condition that the owner refinances with another lender.
 The new lender pays off Mr. Lee's outstanding mortgage lien, netting him a $100,000 profit. 
 ''We do workouts, not kick-outs,'' Mr. Lee said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gene Hacker, a real estate broker and investor, above, tours a foreclosed house in Anaheim, Calif., where the kitchen cabinets, appliances and plumbing and lighting fixtures had been removed. At left is a backyard view of the house. Matt Steel, at bottom left, is a real estate investor and consultant from Bellevue, Wash. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE AND CENTER, J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); REPOSSESSION (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); BAILOUTS (72%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



362 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: A Financial Drama With No Final Act In Sight

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
A lot of smart people have tried to call the bottom on Wall Street this year.
 So far, they have all been wrong. 
 Since the financial crisis first hit in August 2007, markets -- and the financial industry -- have gone through a series of swoons, each more dizzying than the last. Last week, the crisis reached a new pitch, as Lehman Brothers, the fourth-largest United States investment bank, struggled to avoid joining Bear Stearns on the trash heap, and Washington Mutual, the largest savings and loan, saw its shares briefly fall below $2.
 Now even Wall Street's professional optimists have given up predicting exactly when their industry might stabilize. One senior executive at a top investment bank, speaking anonymously so he could speak freely, recently observed that the crisis was entering its ''19th inning,'' with no ending in sight. 
 Until now, the cataclysm in the banking and securities industry has damaged but not derailed the rest of the economy and the Fed and the Treasury signalled last week that they were not ready to bail out Lehman Brothers with taxpayer money. Economists generally predict that the United States will grow slowly over the next few months but avoid a deep recession, especially if oil prices fall further, easing pressure on consumers, and exports remain strong. 
 But as the Wall Street crisis moves into its second year, the risks to the overall economy are increasing. While the economy grew during the first half of the year, businesses are cutting jobs and consumers reducing spending. In August, the unemployment rate reached 6.1 percent, compared with 4.7 percent less than a year ago. 
 Until the worst turmoil on Wall Street ends, the economy will struggle, said Sung Won Sohn, an economist at California State University, Channel Islands, who studies financial markets.
 ''Until and unless we have financial markets stabilize, I don't think we will see a meaningful recovery in housing, and therefore in the economy,'' Dr. Sohn said. He said he expected economic growth to remain close to zero through the middle of 2009 before finally beginning to accelerate.
 Steven Wieting, the United States economist for Citigroup, said: ''We're describing the U.S. economy as recessionary.''
 Unfortunately, Mr. Wieting -- and other economists -- say that the Federal Reserve and the government have few good options left to ease the pressure on financial firms or the economy. The Fed has already cut short-term interest rates to 2 percent, below the rate of inflation, and the government has offered consumers and businesses $150 billion in tax rebates and cuts this year.
 The Fed has also taken several measures to buoy the financial industry, such as allowing more banks access to low-interest, short-term loans. Yet Wall Street continues to struggle through the aftereffects of the biggest speculative bubble in history. 
 Financial services companies have cut more than 100,000 jobs this year, according to Challenger, Gray & Christmas, an executive placement firm, and deeper layoffs may come this fall.
 Yet the picture may not be entirely bleak. When the chaos finally ends, Wall Street will almost certainly be smaller and more risk-averse. That change could eventually put the economy on firmer footing.
 This year's crisis appears to mark the end of a bubble in the financial markets that has lasted nearly two decades. The speculation began in technology stocks in the 1990s and turned to real estate, commodities and private equity buyouts this decade. Along the way it powered the New York City economy and helped drive income inequality nationally.
 While the stock market has not been as frenzied this decade as it was at the end of the 1990s, rampant speculation took over many other financial markets, Mr. Wieting said. ''In the last couple of years, financial activity became less related than we've seen before to real economic developments,'' he said.
 Now Wall Street is reeling, as a significant fraction of the speculative real estate loans that banks made during the boom years are underwater. Because banks have limited capital to absorb losses, investors worry that those losses will overwhelm them.
 The problem has been worsened by the financial instruments that banks and hedge funds and insurance companies have created to swap loans and risk with each other. In theory, those products can help investors and companies diversify risk, but they are nearly impossible to value.
 ''Investors just don't know what these assets are worth,'' said Ed Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research. ''There's no transparency. It's totally up to management to decide what these assets are worth and tell their accountants.''
 For example, Lehman said last week that it had $20 billion in tangible equity-- money that would theoretically be available to its shareholders if Lehman had to be liquidated. But those same shareholders valued Lehman at only $2 billion as of Friday, proof that they do not have confidence in the way Lehman has calculated its assets.
 Now investors are demanding that banks like Lehman and Washington Mutual raise capital or sell their assets to raise cash and prove that they are solvent. But when banks are under pressure, they cannot easily find new investors or purchasers for their assets. It is as if a family were told to sell their home overnight, for cash, or lose it. They would surely receive a far lower price than the property would generate in a more orderly sale.
 So, one by one, the banks that took on the most risk are facing the real possibility of going under. Those with stronger balance sheets, such as Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase, are suffering much less.
 For Wall Street, the lesson has been sobering -- and unlikely to be forgotten for several years, said Dr. Sohn, the California State economist.
 ''The restraint in the credit markets will last quite some time,'' Dr. Sohn said. In the mortgage business, which saw the worst excesses, loan practices may remain stricter for at least a decade, he said. The results will be both positive and negative, he said.
 The speculation that has produced wide swings in commodities prices and vacant subdivisions across California and Florida may become less prominent. But people who want to buy homes may continue to struggle to get mortgages, even if they have excellent credit. Companies who need loans to expand, or just to survive rough economic patches, will also have a harder time finding financing.
 ''We went overboard,'' Dr. Sohn said. ''As a result, the financial market is imposing some discipline on our behavior, and it's painful. But that's how the system works.''
 Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group in Washington, said that, in a best-case scenario, greater risk aversion in the financial markets might eventually encourage the United States to rely less on bubbles and speculative lending to drive economic growth.
 Instead, the government could pursue policies designed to drive wages higher for middle- and lower-class Americans, he said, allowing them to buy homes and cars without taking on ruinous debt.
 ''We have to find a new way -- or maybe it's an old way -- to stimulate enough demand for the economy to do what it's supposed to do without speculative excess,'' Mr. Bernstein said. ''A recovery that's driven by more broadly shared prosperity, where consumption is fairly evenly shared through the economy, that kind of growth is more sustainable.''
 Even so, Mr. Bernstein said he was not cheering Wall Street's deep struggles. ''The financials are the heart of the credit system, and credit is the lifeblood of our economy,'' he said. ''There's no question that we will pay a cost in terms of much diminished growth if this continues.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: A DRAMA WITH NEW TWISTS: THE LEHMAN COLLAPSE: Lehman Brothers, one of Wall Street's oldest banks, has had its stock lose nearly 96 percent of its value since its 2007 peak. Here are the last two years of Lehman's weekly closing stock price. (Source: Bloomberg) (CHART BY BILL MARSH AND ALEX BERENSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); TAX LAW (66%); TAX RELIEF (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); EXECUTIVES (54%); LAYOFFS (53%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (91%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



363 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; POP CULTURE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Today, It's a Long Drive to the Drive-In

BYLINE: By WENDY CARLSON

DATELINE: PLEASANT VALLEY 

 BODY:
 WHEN Thomas Intrier searched the Internet for an outdoor movie theater, he came across the Pleasant Valley Drive-In. Just a bend-in-the road in the state's northwest corner, it was a two-hour drive from his Greenwich home. But for Mr. Intrier, 49, the trek was worth it to share a slice of Americana with his children. 
 Drive-ins, an American institution that turned 75 this year, are fewer and farther between these days. Yet, outdoor theater fans -- spurred by nostalgia and pining for the past -- are willing to travel the distance to experience what seems destined to go the way of carhops.
 ''I wanted my kids to have the same experience I did as a kid, because I know the drive-in may not be around for long,'' Mr. Intrier said. ''There are fewer and fewer of them.'' 
 In the back seat, his three children, dressed in pajamas, popped in and out of the sunroof like a trio of prairie dogs.
 As dusk crept over the grassy lot, a steady stream of S.U.V.s, minivans and pickups rumbled in, holding legions of children with sleeping bags and pillows. They would be up late watching ''Space Chimps'' followed by ''The Dark Knight.''
 Within a half-hour the place was packed, and a tailgate party ensued, with adults unpacking coolers, unfolding lawn chairs and unfurling blankets. Under the screen tower, a rag-tag group of young boys ran wild. Smudge pots kept away the mosquitoes.
 Young and old converged here for the same reason, and it wasn't just for the hot dogs and a double feature.
 ''It's a tradition that brings us back to old times,'' said Tom McDermott of Simsbury, who, along with several families, was dining on sandwiches and sipping soft drinks and glasses of wine. In the mid-1950s, when drive-ins were at their zenith, more than 4,000 dotted the American landscape. Today, about 400 remain, with a total of more than 600 screens, according to the United Drive-In Theater Owners Association. That figure pales when compared to the nation's 5,600 indoor theaters, with 38,204 screens, according to the National Association of Theater Owners. 
 Connecticut's two surviving drive-ins, Pleasant Valley Drive-In and the Mansfield Drive-In northeast of Hartford, are both in rural areas.
 New York has more than 30 outdoor theaters and ranks third in the nation after Pennsylvania and Ohio, but metropolitan residents have to drive upstate past the cornfields to the Overlook Drive-In in Poughkeepsie to catch a double feature. 
 In New Jersey, where the country's first outdoor movie theater opened in 1933, one drive-in remains, in Vineland, south of Atlantic City. But North Jersey residents are closer to the Warwick Drive-In in Warwick, N.Y. 
 Television, and later the advent of VCRs, and eventually the Internet, contributed to the downfall of drive-ins. But soaring property taxes and the growing real estate market were the real culprits.
 Pleasant Valley Drive-In, a 250-car, single-screen theater with a clapboard ticket booth and wooden sign instead of a marquee, exists in a time warp of its own. The owner, Donna McGrane, 47, fields calls from patrons seeking directions from as far away as Manhattan, Massachusetts and Rhode Island. ''There's a guy who lives in Korea, and every time he returns to the States to visit, he comes here,'' she said. 
 That doesn't come as a surprise to a retired filmmaker, Gene Cetrone, 51, whose passion for cinema alfresco led him to start DriveinMovie.com in 1998, a Web site dedicated to the history, preservation and promotion of outdoor theaters. 
 Mr. Cetrone lives on the Upper West Side, but as a teenager he haunted the Nyack Drive-In, which had a 120-foot screen. ''At that time, it was astonishing -- larger than life,'' he recalled.
 A founding member of the Society for the Preservation of Outdoor Theaters, Mr. Cetrone says ''drive-ins are still a good deal'' in a tough economy. 
 ''Parents don't have to hire a baby sitter, they get to see a double feature, and often the kids under 5 are free,'' he said. ''It's a family night out.'' 
 Paul Sommerstein, 39, rented a car and drove up from the East Village with his girlfriend when he was looking to escape the city. ''We came more for the experience of the drive-in than seeing the show,'' he said.
 Despite their cultural impact, drive-ins are rarely taken under wing by preservation groups. Peter H. Brink, senior vice president of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, said the group has not taken initiative to protect drive-ins as it has for historic downtown theaters. 
 ''We haven't seen the community groundswell of support, either for a particular iconic drive-in or for a group of them threatened with being demolished,'' Mr. Brink said. 
 Indirectly though, Scenic Hudson, a nonprofit preservation group, prevented the Hyde Park Drive-In from closing in the 1990s, when the group bought the land across from the Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum and then leased it back to the theater owners.
 ''Scenic Hudson bought the land because they didn't want a Wal-Mart going in right smack across from the Roosevelt home,'' said Andy Cohen, the theater's manager.
 But many say the drive-in no longer suits American sensibilities. 
 ''Sure, the concept of drive-ins will always be around, but its heyday was dead and gone a long time ago,'' said Jay Gitlin, 59, a lecturer in American social and cultural history at Yale University. ''It will never be mainstream again. ''Drive-ins thrived during what I call the great age of 'auto-sociability' in the late '30s, '40s, '50s when people were very social in their cars,'' he said. 
 The Pleasant Valley Drive-In has become a part of Ms. McGrane's family.
 ''My mother used to run the ticket booth and my dad would work part time running the projector, so weekends they'd put us in pajamas and pack us into the station wagon, and that's how we spent our summers,'' she said. ''When the theater came up for sale 11 years ago I couldn't let it go.'' 
 Now, her daughters, Shannon, 15, and Jessica, 16, run the concession stand, and her husband, Tim, 44, operates the projector. Her mother, Marquis Haynes, 73, helps out at the ticket booth.
 Over the years, under different ownership, Pleasant Valley struggled to make ends meet. In the '70s, like many theaters, it survived by showing what the multiplexes couldn't: X-rated movies.
 But theses days families are their mainstay, and G-rated movies are the crowd-pleasers. The back row, ''the passion pit,'' is still unofficially reserved for singles like Kelly Gelzinis, 21, of Winsted, and her boyfriend, Dan Lippincott, 18, who were snuggled under a blanket in the open hatch of their car. ''This is sweet,'' said Mr. Lippincott, who had never been to a drive-in before.
 If Ms. McGrane has her way, Pleasant Valley will continue operating much as it has since it opened in 1947, running reel-to-reel 35-millimeter celluloid film on a carbon-arc projector. Car speakers have been replaced by radio-projected sound. But, in between shows, Ms. McGrane runs classic trailers, including an animated dancing hot dog. Once the movie industry turns completely digital, outdoor theater owners concede they will have to invest in expensive technology. 
 But for now, with the season winding down, time stands still at Pleasant View Drive In.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BIG SCREEN: ''Space Chimps'' plays at the Pleasant Valley Drive-In. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WENDY CARLSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT1)
 FAMILY VIEWING Tailgating at the Pleasant Valley Drive-In.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WENDY CARLSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE THEATERS (89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); RANKINGS (50%); CITY LIFE (50%); SOFT DRINKS (50%); CITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (51%) CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



364 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Can We Avoid Another Transit Fare Increase?

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Re ''The Riders Pay'' (editorial, Sept. 8): You are right; New York City and State must provide substantially more money for our subways and buses. The alternative is to hit riders with the second fare hike in two years. 
 Last year I proposed several measures to forestall the fare hike in March and raise more than $700 million a year to help close future deficits. My report documented a systematic reduction in city and state operating support for transit, especially over the past decade. 
 My proposals did not include new taxes, just a fairer distribution of existing state subsidy programs and increases in operating assistance under programs already in place. 
 If the state and the city do not come forward with the needed funds, riders face a significantly regressive hike in fares. That's just not fair. 
 William C. Thompson Jr. Comptroller New York, Sept.
 8, 2008
 To the Editor:
 ''The Riders Pay'' is correct that mass transit is ''essential to New York's economy,'' linking jobs and residents, 24 hours a day, throughout the region.
 But I disagree that the solution to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's fiscal problems is for the city and the state to ''dig deeper'' for greater public subsidies. 
 In 2007, tax subsidies to the M.T.A. were at record levels, primarily because of property transaction taxes. Those revenues will likely decline substantially, but in 2012 they will still be 27 percent of projected M.T.A. expenses. This should be sufficient, if the M.T.A. gets more money from other sources.
 What's needed instead of taxes is for automobile users to help finance the M.T.A., through a combination of a revised congestion pricing plan, increased fees for driver's licenses and auto registration, and increased fuel taxes. 
 That would enhance incentives to use mass transit, reduce traffic congestion and air pollution, and ensure that auto users pay their fair share of the cost of an efficient transportation system.
 Carol Kellermann Pres., Citizens Budget Commission New York, Sept.
 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TAX INCREASES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); TAX LAW (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (74%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (71%); FUEL TAX (70%); TAX INCENTIVES (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); AIR POLLUTION (50%); DRIVERS LICENSES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



365 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Jori Finkel, Michael Lubic

 BODY:
Jori Lee Finkel and Michael Benjamin Lubic are to be married on Sunday in Santa Monica Bay, off Marina del Rey, Calif. Rabbi Don R. Singer will officiate aboard the Deerfoot II, a chartered sailboat. 
 Ms. Finkel, 37, is keeping her name. She is a freelance arts reporter in Los Angeles and a contributing editor at Art & Auction magazine, for which she was the senior editor until 2004. She graduated summa cum laude from Columbia and has a master's degree in English literature from Stanford. She is the daughter of Janice Martin of Palm Springs, Calif., and of William Finkel of Libertyville, Ill. 
 Mr. Lubic, 47, is a partner in the Chicago law firm Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal; he works in its Los Angeles office. Mr. Lubic serves on the board of the Alzheimer's Association chapter in Los Angeles. He graduated cum laude from Yale, from which he also has a master's degree in economics. He received both his law degree and an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago. The bridegroom is the son of Ellen Lubic of Thousand Oaks, Calif., and of Arthur Lubic of Los Angeles. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM BEINASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); LITERATURE (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (71%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (52%)

COMPANY: SNR DENTON (84%)

ORGANIZATION: ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (86%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



366 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths COLLINS, JOHN JOSEPH

 BODY:
 COLLINS--John Joseph, formerly of Roslyn Harbor, NY, and Highland Beach, Fl, passed away Mars, PA, September 6, 2008, age 86. Loving husband of the late Phyllis Reed Collins & brother of the late Jean A. Robinson. Beloved father of Priscilla Collins (Dr. Kevin Robert) O'Hara of Wexford, PA, & Cynthia Collins Peters of Slingerlands, NY. Grand ''Furrie'' to Catherine, Kimberly, & Marguerite O'Hara and Carolyn Peters. Uncle Jack to Jill Anne, Jeffrey, and James Robinson. Graduated from the US Naval Academy (1946). Jack worked for NY Telephone Co. for 38 years rising to Exec. Vice Pres., Pres. of NY Building Congress, Chairman of Council of Business & Labor for economic development of NY, VP of Cushman and Wakefield Corp, Mayor of Roslyn Harbor, NY. Member of N. Hempstead CC & Vestry of Trinity Episcopal Church. Arrangements by Simons Funeral Home. simonsfuneralhome.com 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (80%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



367 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: That Dividend Tax Rate

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''On Dividend Taxes, It's a Post-Partisan Race'' (Economic View, Sept. 7), in which N. Gregory Mankiw cited the argument that dividends should be taxed at a much lower rate than ordinary income to avoid double taxation of dividends. 
The problem is that this results in taxing money earned by people at a much higher rate than money earned by money. Someone who works hard for $75,000 in wages must pay much more in taxes than someone who inherits a tidy sum of money, never does a lick of work, and is paid $75,000 in dividends.
A far better way to avoid double taxation is to allow corporations to deduct the amount they pay out in dividends when computing their net taxable income, then tax all dividends as ordinary income. This also would encourage companies to pay dividends.
Gomer Thomas
Piscataway, N.J., Sept. 8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



368 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2359 words

HEADLINE: Writing the Myth Of Robert Moses

BYLINE: By BEN GIBBERD. 
Ben Gibberd is the author of ''New York Waters: Profiles From the Edge,'' with the photographer Randy Duchaine.

 BODY:
ARTHUR NERSESIAN, a 49-year-old playwright, poet and novelist whose wavy gray hair gives him the look of a 1960s English professor, rummaged through the black messenger bag lying next to him in a booth at the Moonstruck Diner in the East Village. Then he gleefully pulled out what appeared to be three coverless, battered paperbacks and slid them across the table.
Closer analysis revealed these volumes to be, in fact, three parts of one eviscerated book, taped together and covered with handwritten notes. Stacked one on top of the other, they formed a substantial brick whose spines, in bold red capitals, collectively revealed the title, ''The Power Broker,'' Robert Caro's 1,100-plus-page 1974 biography of Robert Moses, New York's master builder.
In their boldness, Mr. Nersesian's cuts seemed the equal of any of the highways or housing projects created by the book's formidable subject. 
''When I read the book, I just tore into it,'' Mr. Nersesian recalled happily. ''I ripped it up so I could deal with each piece like an individual novel. It was a heat wave, and I went to the beach about 30 times that summer, and this was my sole companion.
''I wouldn't even go with anyone,'' he added. ''I was just having an affair with this book.''
The progeny to date of the love affair that began in 2006 are two novels in a projected five-volume series titled ''The Five Books of Moses.'' They present a fictionalized account of Moses and his impact on New York, and are being published by Akashic Books, a small New York press that specializes in adventurous urban writing often overlooked by more mainstream houses.
The first novel, ''The Swing Voter of Staten Island,'' was published last year and has sold 5,000 to 7,000 copies in hardback, according to Akashic. The second, ''The Sacrificial Circumcision of the Bronx,'' which deals in part with the building of the Cross Bronx Expressway in the 1950s, will appear next month.
Remarkably, given the man's vast impact on New York, the novels appear to be the first fictionalized portrayals of Moses to be published, and among a notably short list of artistic works in any medium about him.
In 1990, the visual artist Theodora Skipitares created ''The Radiant City,'' an Off Broadway play in which singing and dancing puppets delivered a harsh and surreal critique of Moses and his legacy. In 2005, the theatrical group Les Freres Corbusier tackled Moses' legacy in another Off Broadway production, a multimedia revue titled ''Boozy: The Life, Death and Subsequent Vilification of Le Corbusier and, More Importantly, Robert Moses.'' But other than that, the creative arts have oddly remained silent in the face of such a Titanic figure.
Mr. Nersesian (pronounced nur-SEHZ-ee-un) thinks this scarcity has as much to do with the daunting stature of Mr. Caro's Pulitzer Prize-winning work as with the scale of Moses' achievements. Despite growing revisionism about the ultimately negative conclusions reached by Mr. Caro, ''The Power Broker'' remains very much a holy text among nonfiction books about New York's infrastructure, a feeling Mr. Nersesian ardently shares.
''It's just an amazing book, and it can almost be read like a novel,'' he said that day at the diner, gently stroking Mr. Caro's deconstructed oeuvre. ''I mean, how can you ever hope to get around that? It was one of those things that I really did not get into too quickly and I really had to stay away from until I was ready.''
Trauma and Stability
New York, in one form or another, has always been Mr. Nersesian's subject. Born and raised in the city, one of three sons of an Armenian-American father and a fifth-generation Irish-American mother, he lived in a succession of neighborhoods -- first Midtown and Brooklyn Heights with his family, then Times Square, Chelsea and the Upper West Side on his own -- with each move being the result of an eviction. (The author's biography for Mr. Nersesian's 2002 novel, ''Suicide Casanova,'' consists simply of a list of these evictions.)
In 1982, he found stability of sorts in a one-bedroom apartment in the East Village, where he has lived ever since. Unsurprisingly, though, the protagonists of all his works, which include four plays and six novels apart from the Moses books, are invariably harassed New Yorkers, fending off an all-encompassing city that constantly threatens to devour them.
Although Mr. Nersesian's parents were both professionals -- his father was a public school English teacher and his mother a social worker -- his early years were precarious. The family's move from their Midtown apartment when Mr. Nersesian was just 10 was the result of an eviction to make way for an office tower, something he described as ''incredibly traumatic.'' The following year, his parents separated.
Upon his father's death in 1977, the son, then 18, found himself alone. After graduating from Midwood High School in Brooklyn, Mr. Nersesian held a number of temporary jobs, including selling books on West Fourth Street and working as an usher and manager in a series of East Village movie theaters, where, using his portable typewriter, he wrote in the theaters' offices during screenings.
Not unexpectedly, a tenuous quality fills the plays and novels about downtown life that Mr. Nersesian began to publish in the early 1990s, a sense that his down-at-heel characters were the victims of mysterious forces -- personal, political and social -- they could not comprehend. Reviewing Mr. Nersesian's 2000 novel, ''Manhattan Loverboy,'' the literary journal Rain Taxi summed up what might be said of all Mr. Nersesian's work: ''This book is full of lies, and the author makes deception seem like the subtext of modern life, or at least America's real pastime.''
In his 1992 play ''Rent Control,'' Mr. Nersesian incorporated an experience he had when he returned to the office tower that had replaced his childhood apartment.
''I tried to go to the exact same space,'' he recalled, ''and it turned out to be the romance division of Random House or something. I walked in and the secretary said, 'Can I help you?' And I think I tried to convey to her that this was where I lived for the first 10 years of my life; this space here was where I was bathed in the sink. And she looked at me like I was a nut.''
Beginning in the mid-1980s, Mr. Nersesian found an unusual place to write: the Empire State Building. Three of his uncles had a law office there, first on the third floor and then on the 18th. Mr. Nersesian discovered that its anodyne, gray-carpeted environment was the ideal place to hatch his fevered stories of downtown life. He also took advantage of the computers and the limitless supplies of paper, unable to afford either himself.
Working in the famous building since 1984 has had a definite, if intangible, effect on his writing.
''Writing there gave me a kind of historical awareness, as well as an added awareness of being a New Yorker,'' he said. ''I was dating a woman who was also a writer, and we would meet up at the office around 6 and just stay there till 5 or 6 in the morning. Sometimes we'd eat in the office and take intermittent naps on the sofa. Then we'd go and have breakfast at Kiev.''
One sweltering summer night, he stripped down to his underwear and, deep in his work, lost track of time until the presence of a startled secretary at his side brought him to his senses. Nor would this be the first time the forces of the straight world were surprised by the Bohemian throwback in their midst.
On weekends, Mr. Nersesian often held auditions for his plays in the building, and once even staged a full rehearsal there.
''We put ads in Backstage and I actually had a producer and a director in there,'' he recalled with relish. ''We had a really big hallway, and we rehearsed in the hallway until a phalanx of security guards came out, seeing these strange goings-on, and threw everybody out.''
Mr. Nersesian's older brother, Burke, a software programmer who lives in Brooklyn Heights, acknowledged that his brother might be viewed as eccentric, but saw him through the prism of close attachment. ''The thing you have to understand is we were not a normal family,'' he said. ''And I'd say Arthur was no more different than the rest of us. We'd be watching commercials in the '60s for things like Pepsi and we'd go, 'We don't look like any of those families.' ''
Poets and Prostitutes
Unlike many New Yorkers who inhabited the East Village of the 1980s, Mr. Nersesian seemed to remember every aspect of that gritty and often dangerous time with fondness. Even as he described the endless parade of prostitutes down East 12th Street or the bonfires set by the homeless in Tompkins Square Park, there was a palpable tenderness to his voice.
''There was a sense of community there,'' Mr. Nersesian said. ''I couldn't walk down the street without saying hello to someone. You'd see Allen Ginsberg all over the place, and you'd see the other Beats.
''I wasn't the biggest fan of the Beats, but there was an exemplary quality to the artist as citizen. You think about artists today in our society, and they're kind of removed. You don't really know them. When Ginsberg died, a definitive quality from the East Village -- at least from my East Village -- was gone.''
Perhaps inevitably, the East Village of today, with its fashionable bars and restaurants and its gleaming glass towers, fills him with despair.
''Oh, God, we're living in a hell that I can't even begin to describe!'' Mr. Nersesian said mournfully that day at the diner. ''It's amazing how memory really does become a kind of curse. If I was just coming to the city today, I'd probably think, 'Oh, this is a really interesting place,' but it's trying to tell people, 'You know, there was a war fought here, a strange economic, cultural battle that went on, and I saw so many wonderful people lost among the casualties.' ''
Brother Against Brother
At least on one level, the Moses books seem to be Mr. Nersesian's way of dealing with such wholesale loss of memory and the ensuing cultural changes.
While his previous novels were urban picaresques following the travails of an individual, the Moses books envision an entire, alternate New York in which Mr. Nersesian has felt free to take great liberties with history, geography and politics.
In the first Moses book, ''The Swing Voter of Staten Island,'' ''old'' New York has been destroyed by a dirty bomb and an ersatz imitation has been built by the government in the middle of the Nevada desert, where social and political undesirables have been dumped. The second book reveals this destruction to have been the result of a bitter feud between Robert Moses and his brother, Paul, a real historical figure. Mr. Caro devotes an entire chapter of ''The Power Broker'' to the tortured relationship between the two.
In Mr. Caro's account, Paul Moses, an idealistic electrical engineer as brilliant as his brother, was cut out of his parents' will and prevented from obtaining employment in New York by Robert Moses. Paul Moses died penniless at the age of 80 in a decrepit walk-up apartment at a time when his brother held sway over tens of thousands of newly built city apartments.
To all these details Mr. Nersesian has remained faithful, while filling in the blanks to suit his fictional purposes; in the author's account, a young Paul Moses becomes a guerrilla fighter during the Mexican Civil War and later lives in East Tremont in the Bronx as his brother's Cross Bronx Expressway bulldozes its way toward his apartment.
Mr. Caro, reached by phone at his summer house in East Hampton, where he was working on the fourth and final volume of his biography of President Lyndon Johnson, expressed both amusement and concern at some of Mr. Nersesian's embroidering of his work.
''The story of Robert and Paul Moses is so real and so true, and such a terrible thing to happen to a human being, that I hate the thought of someone making up a part of it, of fictionalizing it,'' Mr. Caro said. ''Fictional things should be things viewed as fictional. It's using real people.''
But was he surprised by Mr. Nersesian's choice of subject matter?
''No, not at all,'' Mr. Caro replied. ''When I was writing 'The Power Broker,' I was told over and over again that no one would want to read about Robert Moses. But I always felt he was so integral to the history of the city that if I pursued it fully, people would want to read it.''
--
One day a few weeks ago, Mr. Nersesian, wearing shorts and a frayed T-shirt, took a stroll down Fourth Avenue in the East Village and tried to define his complicated relationship with the man who has obsessed him for so long.
''My poor girlfriend has had to suffer so much because of Robert Moses,'' he said. ''We'll travel around the city and I'll say, 'Robert Moses built that,' 'Robert Moses built this,' and it'll reach the point where I'm about to speak and she'll say, 'Don't say it!'
''She honestly thinks I love Robert Moses, and I honestly don't,'' he added. ''But credit where credit's due. You can't just deny all the things he did.''
The girlfriend in question, a 34-year-old poet and translator named Margarita Shalina, was born in Leningrad in the former Soviet Union and was, he said, ''far more sensitive to the bully nature of it all, where there were Robert Moseses everywhere.''
At the entrance to St. Mark's Bookshop on Third Avenue, where Ms. Shalina works as the store's small-press buyer, Mr. Nersesian pushed his way in.
Ms. Shalina, wearing denim overalls and glasses, greeted him with a kiss, but rolled her eyes when she discovered the topic of conversation. As they stood in front of the store's New York section, Mr. Caro's book conspicuously on display between them, the two batted their arguments back and forth for a while. Ms. Shalina opposes grand development schemes imposed from above, and favors smaller projects determined by individual neighborhoods.
Finally, Mr. Nersesian laughed and ran his hand through his wavy hair. ''On the one hand, I see the great phallic master builder and she's like, 'No, it's all about Jane Jacobs, the low-scale community builder,' '' he said. ''Maybe it really is a boy-girl thing. I don't know.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''My poor girlfriend has had to suffer so much,'' Arthur Nersesian said of his enchantment with Robert Moses. Of his planned five novels about Moses, one is published, the second due next month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW HENDERSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CY1)
From editorial work on the subway, above, to a pilgrimage to Moses' grave in Woodlawn Cemetery, far right, to a visit to the Cross Bronx Expressway, a Moses project, below, Arthur Nersesian is all Moses all the time. Near right, a detail of the cover of his second Moses book. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIM KOWALSKI/AKASHIC BOOKS)
For years, Mr. Nersesian wrote his works at night in the Empire State Building, courtesy of generous relatives who had a law office there. For one of his plays, he held a rehearsal in the hallway, until the security guards arrived. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW HENDERSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CY10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER (89%); POETRY (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); PUBLISHING (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); WEATHER (66%); DANCE (62%); VISUAL ARTS (60%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



369 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Bering Straight Talk

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: Anchorage 

 BODY:
 I've been in Alaska only a week, but I'm already feeling ever so much smarter about Russia.
 I can't quite see it from my hotel window, but, hey, I know it's out there somewhere, beyond all the stuffed bears and cruise ships and glaciers and oil derricks.
 The proximity of the country from which William Seward bartered to buy Alaska for $7 million -- Seward's icebox -- is so illuminating that I suddenly realize that we would commit a grave error by overestimating Russia's economic strength. After all, it represents only 2.8 percent of the world's G.D.P., even though its gross domestic product has ballooned from $200 billion in 1999 to $1.7 trillion this year. 
 But I overanalyze.
 An Arctic blast of action has swept into the 2008 race, making thinking passe. We don't really need to hurt our brains studying the world; we just need the world to know we're capable of bringing a world of hurt to the world if the world continues to be hell-bent on misbehaving.
 Two weeks after being thrown onto a national ticket, and moments after being speed-briefed by McCain foreign-policy advisers, our new Napoleon in bunny boots (not the Pamela Anderson kind, but the knock-offs of the U.S. Army Extreme Cold Weather Vapor Barrier Boots) is ready to face down the Russkies and start a land war over Georgia, and, holy cow, what business is it of ours if Israel attacks Iran?
 The trigger-happy John McCain has indeed found a soul mate. Trigger squared. In Fairbanks on Thursday, at a deployment ceremony for her son who is going to Iraq, Governor Palin followed the lead of McCain and W. in fusing Osama bin Laden's diabolical work on 9/11 and the mission in Iraq. She told the departing troops, ''You'll be there to defend the innocent from the enemies who planned and carried out and rejoiced in the deaths of thousands of Americans.''
 Asked by Charlie Gibson what insight into Russian actions her Alaskan proximity gave her, Sarah blithely replied: ''They're our next-door neighbors. And you can actually see Russia from land here in Alaska.''
 Being a next-door neighbor is not quite enough, though. If Sarah had been reading about the world she feels so confident about leading rather than just parroting by rote what Randy Scheunemann and the neocons around McCain drilled into her last week -- Drill, baby, drill! -- she might have realized that as heinous as Russia's behavior toward Georgia was, it was not completely unprovoked. The State Department has let it be known that it warned McCain's friend, Misha, the hotheaded president of Georgia, not to send troops in to crush the rebellion in two breakaway states.
 And she might not have had to clench her jaw and play for time when Gibson raised the Bush doctrine, the wacko preemption philosophy that so utterly changed the world.
 The really scary part of the Palin interview was how much she seemed like W. in 2000, and not just the way she pronounced nu-cue-lar. She had the same flimsy but tenacious adeptness at saying nothing, the same generalities and platitudes, the same restrained resentment at being pressed to be specific, as though specific is the province of silly eggheads, not people who clear brush at the ranch or shoot moose on the tundra.
 Just as W. once could not name the General-General running Pakistan, so Palin took a position on Pakistan that McCain had derided as naive when Obama took it.
 ''We must not, Charlie, blink, Charlie, because, Charlie, as I've said, Charlie, before, John McCain has said, Charlie, that -- and remember here, Charlie, we're talking about John McCain, Charlie, who, Charlie, is John McCain and I won't be blinking, Charlie.''
 She tried to finesse her previous church comments about Iraq, asking worshipers to pray ''that there is a plan, and that plan is God's plan.'' Earnestly repeating after her tutors, she said she had meant to echo Abraham Lincoln, that in war we must pray that we are on God's side rather than that he is on ours. But her original comments sounded more W. than Abe -- taking your policy and ideology and giving it the hallowed mantle of a mission from God.
 Sarah has single-handedly ushered out the ''Sex and the City'' era, and made the sexy new model for America a retro one -- the glamorous Pioneer Woman, packing a gun, a baby and a Bible.
 Her explosion onto the scene made Obama seem even more like a windy, wispy egghead. Like W., Sarah has the power of positive unthinking. But now we may want to think about where ignorance and pride and no self-doubt has gotten us. Being quick on the trigger might be good in moose hunting, but in dealing with Putin, a little knowledge might come in handy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAMMALS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ARMIES (73%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (79%); SARAH PALIN (78%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (73%) ALASKA, USA (94%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



370 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; CONTINENTAL DIVIDE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1674 words

HEADLINE: A Western State of Mind

BYLINE: By KATHERINE ROBERTS

 BODY:
As Americans get to know Sarah Palin, they're taking a crash course on life in the Last Frontier. There is her sport of moose hunting, for example.
 Shooting the prey turns out to be the easy part. The hard part is figuring out where to do the deed, according to the Alaska Division of Wildlife Conservation: ''When choosing an area to hunt and a means of transportation, remember that you will have about 400 to 700 pounds of meat and up to 65 pounds of antlers to transport from the kill-site to home. That's why many seasoned Alaskan moose hunters say, 'Never kill a moose more than a mile from a vehicle of some sort.' ''
 No wonder, then, that Ms. Palin has been photographed driving a tank-like A.T.V. As for the field-dressing, it's no joke to brave the blowflies while carving up a half-ton animal. 
 A few weeks ago a national conversation about such arcana would have seemed unlikely. But that was before the emergence of a candidate who has divided the country in unexpected ways -- not simply because of her record and her views, but also because Governor Palin comes from a place in the West that embodies deep-seated ideas and myths and contradictions about the role of the frontier in the American psyche. In some sense, Ms. Palin has become a metaphor for Alaska itself, and as grand a landscape as Alaska is, the current discussion is less about a geographical location than about a state of mind, or states of mind. 
 ''The West was another name for opportunity,'' Frederick Jackson Turner wrote in 1893, in his famous essay that declared an end to the frontier, which in his definition meant the end of free land. More than a century later, the dreams and myths about the West persist. So do fantasies and outright misperceptions. Some originated in the East, with its vision of the frontier as being at once a majestic playground and a site of commercial depredation, of strip mines and strip malls. (''The East,'' Turner wrote, ''has always feared the result of an unregulated advance of the frontier, and has tried to check and guide it.'') 
 Other simplifications flourish in the West, with its self-regarding belief in an untamed wilderness brought to heel by fiercely independent souls. 
 The truth has always been more ambiguous, not least because of the region's tangled relationship with the federal government, which had cleared the land of Indians and offered the handout of the Homestead Act in 1862, itself adopted after some 70 years of debate about the rightful disposition of public lands. 
 In the 20th century, accounts of the West often centered on this paradox. The inhabitants boasted of their autonomy, even as the government did the dirty work, took the risks and offered sweet deals to settlers, so they could expand the borders of the United States. Without this help, as many writers have noted, the waves of Western pioneers wouldn't have had the luxury of hating Washington bureaucrats.
 This attitude, of wanting it both ways, was neatly summed up a half-century ago by the historian Bernard DeVoto as: ''Get out and give us more money.'' The novelist Wallace Stegner was just as unsparing when he observed, in 1986: ''Westerners who would like to return to the old days of free grab, people of the kind described as having made America great by their initiative and energy in committing mass trespass on the minerals, grass, timber and water of the Public Domain, complain that no Western state is master in its own house.''
 Competing ideas about the West have dominated our politics for many decades now. No candidate was so synonymous with the regional ideal as Barry Goldwater of Arizona, who spoke Navajo and posed, like Governor Palin, in rugged outdoor outfits, sometimes with a rifle. ''We didn't know the federal government,'' he said of his forebears who came to Arizona in 1860. ''Everything that was done, we did it ourselves.'' 
 But, as Rick Perlstein pointed out in ''Before the Storm,'' his history of Goldwater's 1964 presidential campaign, the land Goldwater's grandfather traveled ''to follow a gold strike,'' in fact ''developed as a virtual ward of the federal government,'' and the money for the first Goldwater general store in 1872 ''came largely from contracts for provisioning Army camps and delivering mail.'' Barry Goldwater, who was born in 1909, grew up with ''a nurse, chauffeur and a live-in maid,'' Mr. Perlstein added.
 As a politician, Goldwater excelled at playing both sides of the game. He railed against federal intrusion in the West, but was first in line to demand the billions of dollars that came to his state from Washington in the form of water projects, to cite one gargantuan example. 
 Today, the West is not the federal economic colony it once was. Nor is it the uncrowded rural paradise of lore. In fact, it has long been the most urbanized part of the country. This transformation has enticed a new brand of fortune-seeker, from the telecommuting migrants in mountain enclaves to the influx of people into metropolitan ''boomburgs'' where they are employed in the same jobs as people in the rest of the country.
 It has been fully 15 years since the last Sagebrush Rebellion, the movement of boisterous anti-government types who aimed to ''take back'' their land from Washington, by force if necessary. It doesn't hurt that all those energy companies now drilling on federal lands pay high wages and provide many jobs. 
 The region's politics, never as uniform as portrayed, is more diverse today than it has been in years. There are now Democratic governors in Colorado, Montana, Wyoming, New Mexico, Colorado and Arizona, not one of whom was elected by praising the federal government or calling for a Buffalo Commons. Barack Obama is mounting strong campaigns in several of these states -- where Democratic presidential candidates have often struggled mightily for 30 years.
 It is, to some extent, the collapsing of the old distinctions, and with it the continuing convergence of East and West, that explains the sudden fascination with Alaska now that Ms. Palin has become a national figure. The state, for all its suburban big-box resemblance to the rest of the West, remains in some ways the last true frontier -- at least in the sense that it remains distant and exotic to most Americans, with its mammoth size, its severe climate, its many unpopulated miles. 
 Its contradictions, however, are the same ones noted by DeVoto and Stegner, only starker and more extreme. While half the land in the Western states in the lower 48 is owned by the federal government, in Alaska, it's closer to 70 percent, and only 1 percent of the state is privately owned. 
 Alaska's dependence on and disdain for government date back to its territory days. John McPhee captured the paradox in his book ''Coming Into the Country,'' published in 1976: ''When one adds in the existing parks, government forests and wildlife refuges and a vast federal petroleum reserve in the north, not much remains, so it is one of the ironies of Alaska that in the midst of this tremendous wilderness people consider themselves fortunate to have (anywhere at all) a 50-by-100 -foot lot they can call their own.''
 The most cantankerous assessment, perhaps, came from the nature writer Edward Abbey. ''Alaska is not, as the state license place asserts, 'the Last Frontier,' '' Abbey wrote in the 1980s. ''Alaska is the final big bite on the American table, where there is never enough to go around. ... Alaska, like the rest of our public domain, has been strapped down and laid open to the lust and greed of the international corporations. ... Anchorage, Fairbanks and outposts like Barter Island, with their glass-and-aluminum office buildings, their airlift prefab fiberboard hovels for the natives and the workers, their compounds of elaborate and destructive machinery, exhibit merely the latest development in the planetary expansion of space-age sleaze -- not a frontier, but a high-technology slum. For Americans, Alaska is the last pork chop.''
 Ms. Palin's critics have tried to tie her to all the supposed evils Abbey detailed and some new ones, too -- relationships that any governor of Alaska might expect to be questioned about. If Mrs. Palin stood up to the oil companies, was it so she would raise taxes for the state treasury? What about her on-and-off stand on that symbol of federal pork, the Bridge to Nowhere? While she may attack earmarks, as she did in her interview with ABC News, what funds has she sent back to Washington, given that Alaskans get $231 per person in earmarks, compared with $22 per person in Mr. Obama's Illinois? 
 The governor's supporters have painted her detractors as out-of-touch elitists, blind to their own insularity and entitlements and self-regard. Behind this view lurks a feeling of injustice rooted in another difference between East and West, the feeling that access to a particular kind of prestige and power is still off-limits to much of the country, to graduates of the University of Idaho, like Ms. Palin, rather than to those who went to Columbia and Harvard, where Mr. Obama got his degrees. 
 This in turn points to a very different though related continental rift, one whose origins are not so much regional as socioeconomic, and rooted less in competing myths about place than about class. 
 Turner saw all that too in 1893. ''Free lands and the consciousness of working out their social destiny did more than turn the Westerner to material interests and devote him to a restless existence,'' he wrote. ''They promoted equality among the Western settlers, and reacted as a check on the aristocratic influences of the East.'' Economic equality followed, and ''this involved political equality.'' 
 ''Not without a struggle would the Western man abandon this ideal,'' he concluded, ''and it goes far to explain the unrest in the remote West today.'' 
 And it may also explain the uneasiness so many Easterners now feel as they are confronted, once again, with their own assumptions about the American frontier. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CONSERVATIVE VOICES: Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska poses with a caribou she shot in Alaska. Senator Barry Goldwater, below, in the mountains outside Scottsdale, Ariz., in 1967. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEATH FAMILY/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 SLIM AARONS/HULTON ARCHIVE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.WK7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY WAYNE WHITE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT HUNTING (90%); MAMMALS (90%); WILDLIFE (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SURFACE MINING (60%); RETAILERS (50%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



371 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: Letters: Economic Cause and Effect?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Would Obama's Plan Be Faster, Fairer, Stronger?'' (Economic View, Aug. 31): 
 The column noted that when a Democrat has been president, the country has had greater economic growth and less inequality. Democratic presidents may have presided over stronger economies, but that does not necessarily mean they were responsible for the economic strength. 
 Here is an alternative explanation: In prosperous times, people want to keep more of what they earn, so they tend to vote Republican. In difficult times, people want more government help, so they tend to vote Democratic. Because prosperity is intrinsically cyclical, Democrats who were elected in bad times tend to preside over improving economies, whereas Republicans elected in good times tend to preside over worsening economies. 
 I plan to vote for Barack Obama because I believe his plan is right, not because of the column's view of history. Daniel Dickinson
 Mountain View, Calif., Sept. 3
 To the Editor: 
 In the last 36 years that a Republican has held the presidency, Democrats have controlled both houses of Congress about two-thirds of the time.
 While the column says that economic growth has generally been slower -- and inequality greater -- under Republican presidents, couldn't these conditions be attributed just as easily to Congress, whose legislative power can impact the economy more?
 Michael Gutch
 Manhattan, Sept. 3

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



372 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Curtailed Campaigning In the Shadow of a Storm

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and MONICA DAVEY; Jeff Zeleny reported from New Hampshire, and Monica Davey from Alaska.

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H. 

 BODY:
With Hurricane Ike cutting a savage path through Texas, Senator Barack Obama canceled plans to appear on the season premiere of ''Saturday Night Live'' and asked voters to consider the ''quiet storms'' taking place in the lives of many Americans as they weigh their choice in the presidential race.
 After Mr. Obama asked supporters to send prayers and donations to victims of the Gulf Coast storm, he aggressively attacked his Republican rivals and argued that Senator John McCain would do little to improve the nation's economic condition. While he pared back his campaigning because of the hurricane, his criticism of Mr. McCain reflected the new urgency of the contest. 
 ''John McCain doesn't get it,'' Mr. Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, said on Saturday at a large rally here at Veterans Memorial Park. ''He doesn't know what's going on in your lives. He is out of touch with the American people.''
 Mr. McCain, the Republican nominee, took a day away from campaigning Saturday, but his running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, held a rally in Anchorage before setting off for Carson City, Nev., and her first campaign swing without him. 
 Before a large, raucous crowd in a pavilion in Nevada on Saturday evening, Ms. Palin called on Americans to ''pull together'' and to offer help to those affected by the storm. ''Today and in the days ahead,'' she said, ''the American heart will be on display.''
 After Mr. McCain, of Arizona, attends a Nascar race on Sunday, they are expected to resume their joint appearances.
 A day after Ms. Palin sat down for her first national television interviews since being named the Republican vice-presidential candidate, she barely mentioned the opposing ticket, focusing instead on what she described as her and Mr. McCain's records as mavericks. ''We're going to Washington, D.C., to shake things up,'' she said, to approving screams from the crowd. She also conveyed a broad, upbeat message, one that some members of the audience later said appealed to their sense of optimism and to their wish that politics not be quite so mean.
 ''America is an exceptional country,'' Ms. Palin said, ''and you are all exceptional Americans.'' 
 In Alaska, along with what has become her stump speech -- a slight variation from her address at the Republican convention -- Ms. Palin lavished affection on her home state and promised to carry its message to the rest of the country. ''I pledge to do my level best,'' she said, ''and to be worthy of the confidence that this beautiful state has put in me.''
 Though she has her critics at home, Ms. Palin cheerily offered a reminder of the state's sparse population. ''You know, thank you, God, for that,'' Ms. Palin said. ''We're small enough to be family. And we can look past some political differences to work as a family.''
 While the hurricane provided another diversion from the presidential race, the Democratic and Republican rivals continued to raise the intensity of their exchanges in dueling television advertisements. Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, the Democratic vice-presidential nominee, was planning to introduce a new line of criticism on Saturday, but aides said he canceled his appearance to keep the partisan attacks at bay.
 Tucker Bounds, a spokesman for Mr. McCain, criticized Mr. Obama for leveling partisan critiques in a campaign rally as millions of residents along the Gulf Coast were battling the storm.
 ''It says a lot about Barack Obama's judgment that while his campaign canceled his appearance on 'Saturday Night Live' and his running mate stayed home, Obama went ahead and delivered a series of scathing personal attacks,'' Mr. Bounds said in a statement. ''Today's attacks mark a new low from Barack Obama.''
 At his rally here, held on a sun-splashed New England day, Mr. Obama, of Illinois, said the McCain-Palin ticket would be an extension of President Bush's eight years in office. He seized on a line from the Republican convention as an example of how, he said, the Republican ticket would not offer a new direction on energy policy.
 ''When you see at the Republican convention everyone shouting 'drill, baby, drill,' that's not a slogan for a 21st-century America,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We are going to create a new energy policy that actually leads us into the 21st century and creates thousands of new jobs.''
 In Anchorage, Ms. Palin said a McCain-Palin administration would press for more energy exploration, to which the crowd began chanting, ''Drill, baby, drill!''
 A similar cheer went up several times in the crowd in Nevada, to which Ms. Palin answered: ''You're right! You are right! Drill, baby, drill!''
 Mr. Obama flew back to Chicago after his appearance in New Hampshire, scrapping his plan to appear alongside the swimmer Michael Phelps on ''Saturday Night Live.'' His aides said it would be inappropriate to be making jokes in the wake of the hurricane. 
 Mr. Obama is scheduled to resume his campaigning on Monday as he begins a swing through the contested Western states of Colorado, Nevada and New Mexico.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barack Obama, campaigned Saturday in New Hampshire, where he promised to improve the country's energy policies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); NASCAR RACING (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); SARAH PALIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); CARSON CITY, NV, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (70%) ALASKA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



373 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3221 words

HEADLINE: Once Elected, Palin Hired Friends and Lashed Foes

BYLINE: By JO BECKER, PETER S. GOODMAN and MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
This article is by Jo Becker, Peter S. Goodmanand Michael Powell.
 WASILLA, Alaska -- Gov. Sarah Palin lives by the maxim that all politics is local, not to mention personal. 
 So when there was a vacancy at the top of the State Division of Agriculture, she appointed a high school classmate, Franci Havemeister, to the $95,000-a-year directorship. A former real estate agent, Ms. Havemeister cited her childhood love of cows as a qualification for running the roughly $2 million agency.
 Ms. Havemeister was one of at least five schoolmates Ms. Palin hired, often at salaries far exceeding their private sector wages. 
 When Ms. Palin had to cut her first state budget, she avoided the legion of frustrated legislators and mayors. Instead, she huddled with her budget director and her husband, Todd, an oil field worker who is not a state employee, and vetoed millions of dollars of legislative projects. 
 And four months ago, a Wasilla blogger, Sherry Whitstine, who chronicles the governor's career with an astringent eye, answered her phone to hear an assistant to the governor on the line, she said.
 ''You should be ashamed!'' Ivy Frye, the assistant, told her. ''Stop blogging. Stop blogging right now!''
 Ms. Palin walks the national stage as a small-town foe of ''good old boy'' politics and a champion of ethics reform. The charismatic 44-year-old governor draws enthusiastic audiences and high approval ratings. And as the Republican vice-presidential nominee, she points to her management experience while deriding her Democratic rivals, Senators Barack Obama and Joseph R. Biden Jr., as speechmakers who never have run anything.
 But an examination of her swift rise and record as mayor of Wasilla and then governor finds that her visceral style and penchant for attacking critics -- she sometimes calls local opponents ''haters'' -- contrasts with her carefully crafted public image. 
 Throughout her political career, she has pursued vendettas, fired officials who crossed her and sometimes blurred the line between government and personal grievance, according to a review of public records and interviews with 60 Republican and Democratic legislators and local officials.
 Still, Ms. Palin has many supporters. As a two-term mayor she paved roads and built an ice rink, and as governor she has pushed through higher taxes on the oil companies that dominate one-third of the state's economy. She stirs deep emotions. In Wasilla, many residents display unflagging affection, cheering ''our Sarah'' and hissing at her critics.
 ''She is bright and has unfailing political instincts,'' said Steve Haycox, a history professor at the University of Alaska. ''She taps very directly into anxieties about the economic future.'' 
 ''But,'' he added, ''her governing style raises a lot of hard questions.''
 Ms. Palin declined to grant an interview for this article. The McCain-Palin campaign responded to some questions on her behalf and that of her husband, while referring others to the governor's spokespeople, who did not respond.
 Lt. Gov. Sean Parnell said Ms. Palin had conducted an accessible and effective administration in the public's interest. ''Everything she does is for the ordinary working people of Alaska,'' he said.
 In Wasilla, a builder said he complained to Mayor Palin when the city attorney put a stop-work order on his housing project. She responded, he said, by engineering the attorney's firing. 
 Interviews show that Ms. Palin runs an administration that puts a premium on loyalty and secrecy. The governor and her top officials sometimes use personal e-mail accounts for state business; dozens of e-mail messages obtained by The New York Times show that her staff members studied whether that could allow them to circumvent subpoenas seeking public records. 
 Rick Steiner, a University of Alaska professor, sought the e-mail messages of state scientists who had examined the effect of global warming on polar bears. (Ms. Palin said the scientists had found no ill effects, and she has sued the federal government to block the listing of the bears as endangered.) An administration official told Mr. Steiner that his request would cost $468,784 to process.
 When Mr. Steiner finally obtained the e-mail messages -- through a federal records request -- he discovered that state scientists had in fact agreed that the bears were in danger, records show.
 ''Their secrecy is off the charts,'' Mr. Steiner said. 
 State legislators are investigating accusations that Ms. Palin and her husband pressured officials to fire a state trooper who had gone through a messy divorce with her sister, charges that she denies. But interviews make clear that the Palins draw few distinctions between the personal and the political.
 Last summer State Representative John Harris, the Republican speaker of the House, picked up his phone and heard Mr. Palin's voice. The governor's husband sounded edgy. He said he was unhappy that Mr. Harris had hired John Bitney as his chief of staff, the speaker recalled. Mr. Bitney was a high school classmate of the Palins and had worked for Ms. Palin. But she fired Mr. Bitney after learning that he had fallen in love with another longtime friend. 
 ''I understood from the call that Todd wasn't happy with me hiring John and he'd like to see him not there,'' Mr. Harris said. 
 ''The Palin family gets upset at personal issues,'' he added. ''And at our level, they want to strike back.''
 Through a campaign spokesman, Mr. Palin said he ''did not recall'' referring to Mr. Bitney in the conversation.
 Hometown Mayor
 Laura Chase, the campaign manager during Ms. Palin's first run for mayor in 1996, recalled the night the two women chatted about her ambitions. 
 ''I said, 'You know, Sarah, within 10 years you could be governor,' '' Ms. Chase recalled. ''She replied, 'I want to be president.' ''
 Ms. Palin grew up in Wasilla, an old fur trader's outpost and now a fast-growing exurb of Anchorage. The town sits in the Matanuska-Susitna Valley, edged by jagged mountains and birch forests. In the 1930s, the Roosevelt administration took farmers from the Dust Bowl area and resettled them here; their Democratic allegiances defined the valley for half a century. 
 In the past three decades, socially conservative Oklahomans and Texans have flocked north to the oil fields of Alaska. They filled evangelical churches around Wasilla and revived the Republican Party. Many of these working-class residents formed the electoral backbone for Ms. Palin, who ran for mayor on a platform of gun rights, opposition to abortion and the ouster of the ''complacent'' old guard. 
 After winning the mayoral election in 1996, Ms. Palin presided over a city rapidly outgrowing itself. Septic tanks had begun to pollute lakes, and residential lots were carved willy-nilly out of the woods. She passed road and sewer bonds, cut property taxes but raised the sales tax. 
 And, her supporters say, she cleaned out the municipal closet, firing veteran officials to make way for her own team. ''She had an agenda for change and for doing things differently,'' said Judy Patrick, a City Council member at the time. 
 But careers were turned upside down. The mayor quickly fired the town's museum director, John Cooper. Later, she sent an aide to the museum to talk to the three remaining employees. ''He told us they only wanted two,'' recalled Esther West, one of the three, ''and we had to pick who was going to be laid off.'' The three quit as one.
 Ms. Palin cited budget difficulties for the museum cuts. Mr. Cooper thought differently, saying the museum had become a microcosm of class and cultural conflicts in town. ''It represented that the town was becoming more progressive, and they didn't want that,'' he said. 
 Days later, Mr. Cooper recalled, a vocal conservative, Steve Stoll, sidled up to him. Mr. Stoll had supported Ms. Palin and had a long-running feud with Mr. Cooper. ''He said: 'Gotcha, Cooper,' '' Mr. Cooper said.
 Mr. Stoll did not recall that conversation, although he said he supported Ms. Palin's campaign and was pleased when she fired Mr. Cooper.
 In 1997, Ms. Palin fired the longtime city attorney, Richard Deuser, after he issued the stop-work order on a home being built by Don Showers, another of her campaign supporters.
 Your attorney, Mr. Showers told Ms. Palin, is costing me lots of money. 
 ''She told me she'd like to see him fired,'' Mr. Showers recalled. ''But she couldn't do it herself because the City Council hires the city attorney.'' Ms. Palin told him to write the council members to complain. 
 Meanwhile, Ms. Palin pushed the issue from the inside. ''She started the ball rolling,'' said Ms. Patrick, who also favored the firing. Mr. Deuser was soon replaced by Ken Jacobus, then the State Republican Party's general counsel. 
 ''Professionals were either forced out or fired,'' Mr. Deuser said.
 Ms. Palin ordered city employees not to talk to the press. And she used city money to buy a white Suburban for the mayor's use -- employees sarcastically called it the mayor-mobile.
 The new mayor also tended carefully to her evangelical base. She appointed a pastor to the town planning board. And she began to eye the library. For years, social conservatives had pressed the library director to remove books they considered immoral.
 ''People would bring books back censored,'' recalled former Mayor John Stein, Ms. Palin's predecessor. ''Pages would get marked up or torn out.''
 Witnesses and contemporary news accounts say Ms. Palin asked the librarian about removing books from the shelves. The McCain-Palin presidential campaign says Ms. Palin never advocated censorship. 
 But in 1995, Ms. Palin, then a city councilwoman, told colleagues that she had noticed the book ''Daddy's Roommate'' on the shelves and that it did not belong there, according to Ms. Chase and Mr. Stein. Ms. Chase read the book, which helps children understand homosexuality, and said it was inoffensive; she suggested that Ms. Palin read it.
 ''Sarah said she didn't need to read that stuff,'' Ms. Chase said. ''It was disturbing that someone would be willing to remove a book from the library and she didn't even read it.''
 ''I'm still proud of Sarah,'' she added, ''but she scares the bejeebers out of me.''
 Reform Crucible
 Restless ambition defined Ms. Palin in the early years of this decade. She raised money for Senator Ted Stevens, a Republican from the state; finished second in the 2002 Republican primary for lieutenant governor; and sought to fill the seat of Senator Frank H. Murkowski when he ran for governor.
 Mr. Murkowski appointed his daughter to the seat, but as a consolation prize, he gave Ms. Palin the $125,000-a-year chairmanship of a state commission overseeing oil and gas drilling.
 Ms. Palin discovered that the state Republican leader, Randy Ruedrich, a commission member, was conducting party business on state time and favoring regulated companies. When Mr. Murkowski failed to act on her complaints, she quit and went public.
 The Republican establishment shunned her. But her break with the gentlemen's club of oil producers and political power catapulted her into the public eye. 
 ''She was honest and forthright,'' said Jay Kerttula, a former Democratic state senator from Palmer.
 Ms. Palin entered the 2006 primary for governor as a formidable candidate. 
 In the middle of the primary, a conservative columnist in the state, Paul Jenkins, unearthed e-mail messages showing that Ms. Palin had conducted campaign business from the mayor's office. Ms. Palin handled the crisis with a street fighter's guile. 
 ''I told her it looks like she did the same thing that Randy Ruedrich did,'' Mr. Jenkins recalled. ''And she said, 'Yeah, what I did was wrong.' ''
 Mr. Jenkins hung up and decided to forgo writing about it. His phone rang soon after.
 Mr. Jenkins said a reporter from Fairbanks, reading from a Palin news release, demanded to know why he was ''smearing'' her. ''Now I look at her and think: 'Man, you're slick,' '' he said.
 Ms. Palin won the primary, and in the general election she faced Tony Knowles, the former two-term Democratic governor, and Andrew Halcro, an independent. 
 Not deeply versed in policy, Ms. Palin skipped some candidate forums; at others, she flipped through hand-written, color-coded index cards strategically placed behind her nameplate. 
 Before one forum, Mr. Halcro said he saw aides shovel reports at Ms. Palin as she crammed. Her showman's instincts rarely failed. She put the pile of reports on the lectern. Asked what she would do about health care policy, she patted the stack and said she would find an answer in the pile of solutions.
 ''She was fresh, and she was tomorrow,'' said Michael Carey, a former editorial page editor for The Anchorage Daily News. ''She just floated along like Mary Poppins.'' 
 Government
 Half a century after Alaska became a state, Ms. Palin was inaugurated as governor in Fairbanks and took up the reformer's sword. 
 As she assembled her cabinet and made other state appointments, those with insider credentials were now on the outs. But a new pattern became clear. She surrounded herself with people she has known since grade school and members of her church. 
 Mr. Parnell, the lieutenant governor, praised Ms. Palin's appointments. ''The people she hires are competent, qualified, top-notch people,'' he said.
 Ms. Palin chose Talis Colberg, a borough assemblyman from the Matanuska valley, as her attorney general, provoking a bewildered question from the legal community: ''Who?'' Mr. Colberg, who did not return calls, moved from a one-room building in the valley to one of the most powerful offices in the state, supervising some 500 people.
 ''I called him and asked, 'Do you know how to supervise people?' '' said a family friend, Kathy Wells. ''He said, 'No, but I think I'll get some help.' '' 
 The Wasilla High School yearbook archive now doubles as a veritable directory of state government. Ms. Palin appointed Mr. Bitney, her former junior high school band-mate, as her legislative director and chose another classmate, Joe Austerman, to manage the economic development office for $82,908 a year. Mr. Austerman had established an Alaska franchise for Mailboxes Etc.
 To her supporters -- and with an 80 percent approval rating, she has plenty -- Ms. Palin has lifted Alaska out of a mire of corruption. She gained the passage of a bill that tightens the rules covering lobbyists. And she rewrote the tax code to capture a greater share of oil and gas sale proceeds.
 ''Does anybody doubt that she's a tough negotiator?'' said State Representative Carl Gatto, Republican of Palmer. 
 Yet recent controversy has marred Ms. Palin's reform credentials. In addition to the trooper investigation, lawmakers in April accused her of improperly culling thousands of e-mail addresses from a state database for a mass mailing to rally support for a policy initiative. 
 While Ms. Palin took office promising a more open government, her administration has battled to keep information secret. Her inner circle discussed the benefit of using private e-mail addresses. An assistant told her it appeared that such e-mail messages sent to a private address on a ''personal device'' like a BlackBerry ''would be confidential and not subject to subpoena.'' 
 Ms. Palin and aides use their private e-mail addresses for state business. A campaign spokesman said the governor copied e-mail messages to her state account ''when there was significant state business.'' 
 On Feb. 7, Frank Bailey, a high-level aide, wrote to Ms. Palin's state e-mail address to discuss appointments. Another aide fired back: ''Frank, this is not the governor's personal account.''
 Mr. Bailey responded: ''Whoops!''
 Mr. Bailey, a former midlevel manager at Alaska Airlines who worked on Ms. Palin's campaign, has been placed on paid leave; he has emerged as a central figure in the trooper investigation. 
 Another confidante of Ms. Palin's is Ms. Frye, 27. She worked as a receptionist for State Senator Lyda Green before she joined Ms. Palin's campaign for governor. Now Ms. Frye earns $68,664 as a special assistant to the governor. Her frequent interactions with Ms. Palin's children have prompted some lawmakers to refer to her as ''the babysitter,'' a title that Ms. Frye disavows.
 Like Mr. Bailey, she is an effusive cheerleader for her boss.
 ''YOU ARE SO AWESOME!'' Ms. Frye typed in an e-mail message to Ms. Palin in March.
 Many lawmakers contend that Ms. Palin is overly reliant on a small inner circle that leaves her isolated. Democrats and Republicans alike describe her as often missing in action. Since taking office in 2007, Ms. Palin has spent 312 nights at her Wasilla home, some 600 miles to the north of the governor's mansion in Juneau, records show. 
 During the last legislative session, some lawmakers became so frustrated with her absences that they took to wearing ''Where's Sarah?'' pins. 
 Many politicians say they typically learn of her initiatives -- and vetoes -- from news releases. 
 Mayors across the state, from the larger cities to tiny municipalities along the southeastern fiords, are even more frustrated. Often, their letters go unanswered and their pleas ignored, records and interviews show. 
 Last summer, Mayor Mark Begich of Anchorage, a Democrat, pressed Ms. Palin to meet with him because the state had failed to deliver money needed to operate city traffic lights. At one point, records show, state officials told him to just turn off a dozen of them. Ms. Palin agreed to meet with Mr. Begich when he threatened to go public with his anger, according to city officials.
 At an Alaska Municipal League gathering in Juneau in January, mayors across the political spectrum swapped stories of the governor's remoteness. How many of you, someone asked, have tried to meet with her? Every hand went up, recalled Mayor Fred Shields of Haines Borough. And how many met with her? Just a few hands rose. Ms. Palin soon walked in, delivered a few remarks and left for an anti-abortion rally.
 The administration's e-mail correspondence reveals a siege-like atmosphere. Top aides keep score, demean enemies and gloat over successes. Even some who helped engineer her rise have felt her wrath.
 Dan Fagan, a prominent conservative radio host and longtime friend of Ms. Palin, urged his listeners to vote for her in 2006. But when he took her to task for raising taxes on oil companies, he said, he found himself branded a ''hater.'' 
 It is part of a pattern, Mr. Fagan said, in which Ms. Palin characterizes critics as ''bad people who are anti-Alaska.'' 
 As Ms. Palin's star ascends, the McCain campaign, as often happens in national races, is controlling the words of those who know her well. Her mother-in-law, Faye Palin, has been asked not to speak to reporters, and aides sit in on interviews with old friends. 
 At a recent lunch gathering, an official with the Wasilla Chamber of Commerce asked its members to refer all calls from reporters to the governor's office. Dianne Woodruff, a city councilwoman, shook her head.
 ''I was thinking, I don't remember giving up my First Amendment rights,'' Ms. Woodruff said. ''Just because you're not going gaga over Sarah doesn't mean you can't speak your mind.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sarah Palin as a Wasilla, Alaska, councilwoman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HEATH FAMILY, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A1)
The Wasilla City Council, with Sarah Palin, the future governor and vice-presidential nominee, at the center, in a 1998 photograph. Throughout her career, Ms. Palin has pursued vendettas, fired officials who crossed her and blurred the line between government and personal grievance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HEATH FAMILY, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Governor Palin giving her first State of the State Address to the Alaska Legislature in 2007 as Lyda Green, Senate president, and John Harris, speaker of the House, both Republicans, listened. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS MILLER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); VETO (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (68%); ETHICS (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOE BIDEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



374 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Too Few Regulations? No, Just Ineffective Ones

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
THERE is a misconception that President Bush's years in office have been characterized by a hands-off approach to regulation. In large part, this myth stems from the rhetoric of the president and his appointees, who have emphasized the costly burdens that regulation places on business.
 But the reality has been very different: continuing heavy regulation, with a growing loss of accountability and effectiveness. That's dysfunctional governance, not laissez-faire. 
 When it comes to financial regulation, for example, until the crisis of the last few months, the administration did little to alter a regulatory structure that was built over many decades. Banks continue to be governed by a hodgepodge of rules and agencies including the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the international Basel accords on capital standards, state authorities, the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Publicly traded banks, like other corporations, are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 
 And legislation that has been on the books for years -- like the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act and the Community Reinvestment Act -- helped to encourage the proliferation of high-risk mortgage loans. Perhaps the biggest long-term distortion in the housing market came from the tax code: the longstanding deduction for mortgage interest, which encouraged overinvestment in real estate. 
 In short, there was plenty of regulation -- yet much of it made the problem worse. These laws and institutions should have reined in bank risk while encouraging financial transparency, but did not. This deficiency -- not a conscientious laissez-faire policy -- is where the Bush administration went wrong. 
 It would be unfair, however, to blame the Republicans alone for these regulatory failures. The Democrats have a long history of uncritically favoring expansion of homeownership, which contributed to the excesses at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the humbled mortgage giants.
 The privatization of Fannie Mae dates back to the Johnson administration, which wanted to get the agency's debt off its books. But now, of course, the government is on the hook for the agency's debt. As late as this spring, Congressional Democrats were pushing for weaker capital requirements for the mortgage agencies. The regulatory reality was that few politicians were willing to exchange short-term economic gains -- namely, higher rates of homeownership -- for protection against longer-term financial risks.
 Still, the Bush administration's many critiques of regulation are belied by the numbers, which demonstrate a strong interest in continued and, indeed, expanded regulation. This is the lesson of a recent study, ''Regulatory Agency Spending Reaches New Height,'' by Veronique de Rugy, senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, and Melinda Warren, director of the Weidenbaum Center Forum at Washington University. (Disclosure: Ms. de Rugy's participation in this study was under my supervision.) For the proposed 2009 fiscal budget, spending by regulatory agencies is to grow by 6.4 percent, similar to the growth rate for last year, and continuing a long-term expansionary trend.
 For the regulatory category of finance and banking, inflation-adjusted expenditures have risen 43.5 percent from 1990 to 2008. It is not unusual for the Federal Register to publish 70,000 or more pages of new regulations each year. 
 In other words, financial regulation has produced a lot of laws and a lot of spending but poor priorities and little success in using the most important laws to head off a disaster. The pattern is reminiscent of how legislators often seem more interested in building new highways -- which are highly visible projects -- than in maintaining old ones. 
 The biggest financial deregulation in recent times has been an implicit one -- namely, that hedge funds and many new exotic financial instruments have grown in importance but have remained largely unregulated. To be sure, these institutions contributed to the severity of the Bear Stearns crisis and to the related global credit crisis. But it's not obvious that the less regulated financial sector performed any worse than the highly regulated housing and bank mortgage lending sectors, including, of course, the government-sponsored mortgage agencies.
 In other words, the regulation that we have didn't work very well.
 There are two ways to view this history. First, with the benefit of hindsight, one could argue that we needed only a stronger political will to regulate every corner of finance and avert a crisis.
 Under the second view, which I prefer, regulators will never be in a position to accurately evaluate or second-guess many of the most important market transactions. In finance, trillions of dollars change hands, market players are very sophisticated, and much of the activity takes place outside the United States -- or easily could. 
 Under these circumstances, the real issue is setting strong regulatory priorities to prevent outright fraud and to encourage market transparency, given that government scrutiny will never be universal or even close to it. Identifying underregulated sectors in hindsight isn't a useful guide for what to do the next time. 
 Both presidential candidates have endorsed regulatory reform, but they have yet to signal that it will become a priority. That isn't surprising. Fixing these problems may seem a very abstract way of helping the average citizen, and it will certainly require taking on special interests. It's easier to tell voters that the regulators have taken care of last year's problem, even if that accomplishes nothing for the future. 
 In the meantime, if you hear a call for more regulation, without a clear explanation of why regulation failed in the past, beware. The odds are that we'll get additional regulation but with even less accountability and even less focus on solving our very real economic problems. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); FAIR LENDING (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (69%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



375 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Palin's Interview: Sampling the Reviews

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''In First Big Interview, Palin Says 'I'm Ready' for the Job'' (front page, Sept. 12): It is truly time to reassess our presidential selection process when one of the two people most likely to become our next vice president (and perhaps president), Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, in her first interview as a candidate clearly did not recognize the term ''the Bush doctrine.'' 
 This term is the guiding principle that led America into the Iraq war, which has taken the lives of thousands of Americans and more than a hundred thousand Iraqis and which may ultimately cost the United States several trillion dollars. 
 Has conservative anti-intellectualism reached such a new low, surpassing that of George W. Bush, that the Republicans' vice-presidential candidate has apparently been paying so little attention to major world events? 
 It is shocking that John McCain would ask us to put this unqualified person, with her apparent lack of interest in geopolitics, in a position to become the world's most powerful leader and the commander in chief of its largest military.
 Kenneth Worthy Berkeley, Calif., Sept.
 12, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Sarah Palin's answer to Charles Gibson's question showed that she didn't seem to know what the Bush doctrine is.
 Lawyers have to pass the bar exam to be lawyers. Doctors have to pass the medical boards to be doctors, and so on.
 Shouldn't would-be presidents and would-be vice presidents who want to lead their country, and perhaps the world, have to prove expertise in their desired positions?
 Sol Weintraub Flushing, Queens, Sept.
 12, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I do not believe that it is a requirement for high public office that the words ''Bush doctrine'' by themselves immediately conjure up a particular idea. 
 There are many Bush ''doctrines,'' and I have yet to read anything today that did not have to immediately explain for the benefit of the (ignorant) reader what reference was intended.
 Peter Lushing Far Hills, N.J., Sept.
 12, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I was surprised to read your report that ''there were no obvious gaffes during the grilling'' of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska by Charles Gibson of ABC News. 
 A potential vice president is unable to identify the central tenet of United States foreign policy over the last seven years, and this is not a major gaffe? How low has the bar been set? 
 The Bush doctrine is taught to high school students. I expect more of the person first in line to succeed the president.
 Brian J. Corby New York, Sept.
 12, 2008
 To the Editor:
 We should not ask Sarah Palin whether she is ready -- ready to be commander in chief, ready to make tough decisions. Instead, we should ask ourselves whether she has the wisdom to make good decisions, decisions that are good for the whole country in the long term.
 President Bush was perfectly ready to make the decision to drag our country into the Iraq quagmire.
 Hermann Riecke Evanston, Ill., Sept.
 12, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 After the smoke clears, it doesn't matter that Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska is just a regular person, that she is a woman, that she is a capable attack dog against opponents or that she is a Christian.
 What does matter is that she is someone who was intentionally kept from the news media so that she could cram for a ''first'' interview and be force-fed what policies and positions she should be for and against. 
 I, for one, do not want someone with a two-week education in federal politics to be a heartbeat away from the presidency, whether she claims she's ready or not.
 Patricia A. Weller Westminster, Md., Sept.
 12, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Many will be cheered by Gov. Sarah Palin's declaration that she is ready for the job of vice president, or of president, if the need arises. I would have hoped for a more reflective answer, however. 
 Even someone with a much stronger resume in national and international affairs than the governor has should pause when considering his or her readiness to bear the burdens that come with occupying the Oval Office. 
 Jonathan J. Margolis Brookline, Mass., Sept.
 12, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Blizzard of Lies,'' by Paul Krugman (column, Sept. 12):
 When is anyone with a conscience from the McCain campaign going to stand up against this ''win at any cost'' campaign? Where is the outrage from honest Republican commentators? 
 I'm afraid that it will all come after the fact, and someone will write a book bemoaning the fact that negative campaigning works. And one of the staffers who is coaching Sarah Palin now will tell us, when it is too late, that she really was unqualified, but they were afraid of losing their jobs. 
 Where is the integrity from anyone on the McCain campaign?
 Anne Krick Wheaton, Ill., Sept.
 12, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Misery Loves Democrats'' (column, Sept. 11): Gail Collins is right; we Obama-ites (or Obamanauts, as I call us) are freaking out. 
 But some of us aren't asking why Barack Obama isn't focused on the economy so much as why he isn't promoting the ethical and spiritual reasons to focus on the economy, the war and every other major issue. 
 The long liberal-left struggles for the interests and rights of the less well off and powerful are not primarily about economic interests: they are about respect, empathy and love for everyone. 
 When Mr. Obama rises above the mutual contempt of the left and the right for each other to show us what red and blue states have in common, how we can care about each other and the world and talk with our enemies -- when he is tough for that agenda, he gathers respect and votes, as he did in the primaries.
 David Brooks (column, Sept. 9) calls that message ''weird.'' I call it hopeful, inspiring, election-winning. 
 Dave Belden El Cerrito, Calif., Sept.
 11, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KATHERINE STREETER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); IRAQ WAR (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



376 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; KINGSBRIDGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: 'No Contract, No Cookies'

BYLINE: By KATHERINE BINDLEY

 BODY:
AS it neared 5 o'clock on a recent Friday, the workers from the Stella D'oro cookie factory in the Kingsbridge neighborhood of the Bronx sat in collapsible lounge chairs beneath brightly colored striped umbrellas and a blue tarp. They were settling in for their version of a late summer weekend, which meant trading off shifts on the 24-hour picket line they have been keeping since Aug. 13. 
 The workers are on strike against the Stella D'oro Biscuit Company, which was acquired by Brynwood Partners in 2006. According to Joyce Alston, the president of Local 50 of the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers, and Grain Millers International Union, the proposed contract would reduce the pay for about half of the factory's nearly 140 workers over the next five years and would weaken certain benefits. 
 Juan Torres, 51, who has worked for Stella D'oro for 15 years, stood beside his co-workers on the picket line, wearing a Yankees T-shirt and mulling his future finances. 
 ''How I can send my kids to college or send them for a better education if every year I'm going to make less money?'' Mr. Torres asked. ''The cost of living right now is very high, everything, the gas, the food.'' 
 According to an Aug. 27 letter from Daniel Myers, the chief operating officer of Stella D'oro, to Ms. Alston, the proposed contract would raise some workers' wages, lower others' and leave others' unchanged, and would reduce the number of paid holidays, eliminate paid sick days and keep pension benefits intact.
 Neither Mr. Myers nor other Stella D'oro managers responded to several phone calls and e-mail messages for elaboration on the contract or the strike. Robb MacKie, the president of the American Bakers Association, said he was not specifically familiar with the Stella D'oro matter, but he did say that the general economics of the industry are currently challenging. 
 ''All of the industry costs are up,'' Mr. MacKie said, citing staple ingredients like flour, sugar and shortening. As a result, he said, baking companies are being forced to raise consumer prices and to reduce their labor, marketing and other costs. 
 Back on the picket line, the workers have persisted, sticking to their slogan of ''No contract, no cookies'' and holding a rally on, suitably, Labor Day. Assemblyman Jeffrey Dinowitz was among the officials present; he roused the crowd when he said that the beautiful aroma of cookies in the community had started to stink.
 Ms. Alston said that the union and the company have conducted some talks, but that they were no longer meeting. ''Honestly, we don't know what's going to happen,'' she said, adding, ''We're prepared to fight by any legal means.''
 Raymond Armerino, 61, has been with Stella D'oro for 36 years and said he would rather be working than on strike. ''I love this place,'' he said. But he said that if the workers were replaced, cookie quality would suffer. 
 ''The people here,'' Mr. Armerino said, referring to those around him, ''know how to make a great cookie.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Striking against Stella D'oro, the snack company, in the Bronx. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TOP, TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKIE & CRACKER MFG (90%); STRIKES (90%); BAKERIES (89%); BAKED GOODS MFG (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); US LABOR DAY (77%); COST OF LIVING (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (69%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (68%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); SICK LEAVE (64%); COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (58%)

COMPANY: STELLA D'ORO BISCUIT CO OF CALIFORNIA (92%); STELLA D'ORO CO (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (92%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



377 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Making America Stupid

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN. 
Nicholas D. Kristof is off today.

 BODY:
Imagine for a minute that attending the Republican convention in St. Paul, sitting in a skybox overlooking the convention floor, were observers from Russia, Iran and Venezuela. And imagine for a minute what these observers would have been doing when Rudy Giuliani led the delegates in a chant of ''drill, baby, drill!''
 I'll tell you what they would have been doing: the Russian, Iranian and Venezuelan observers would have been up out of their seats, exchanging high-fives and joining in the chant louder than anyone in the hall -- ''Yes! Yes! Drill, America, drill!'' -- because an America that is focused first and foremost on drilling for oil is an America more focused on feeding its oil habit than kicking it. 
 Why would Republicans, the party of business, want to focus our country on breathing life into a 19th-century technology -- fossil fuels -- rather than giving birth to a 21st-century technology -- renewable energy? As I have argued before, it reminds me of someone who, on the eve of the I.T. revolution -- on the eve of PCs and the Internet -- is pounding the table for America to make more I.B.M. typewriters and carbon paper. ''Typewriters, baby, typewriters.'' 
 Of course, we're going to need oil for many years, but instead of exalting that -- with ''drill, baby, drill'' -- why not throw all our energy into innovating a whole new industry of clean power with the mantra ''invent, baby, invent?'' That is what a party committed to ''change'' would really be doing. As they say in Texas: ''If all you ever do is all you've ever done, then all you'll ever get is all you ever got.'' 
 I dwell on this issue because it is symbolic of the campaign that John McCain has decided to run. It's a campaign now built on turning everything possible into a cultural wedge issue -- including even energy policy, no matter how stupid it makes the voters and no matter how much it might weaken America. 
 I respected McCain's willingness to support the troop surge in Iraq, even if it was going to cost him the Republican nomination. Now the same guy, who would not sell his soul to win his party's nomination, is ready to sell every piece of his soul to win the presidency. 
 In order to disguise the fact that the core of his campaign is to continue the same Bush policies that have led 80 percent of the country to conclude we're on the wrong track, McCain has decided to play the culture-war card. Obama may be a bit professorial, but at least he is trying to unite the country to face the real issues rather than divide us over cultural differences.
 A Washington Post editorial on Thursday put it well: ''On a day when the Congressional Budget Office warned of looming deficits and a grim economic outlook, when the stock market faltered even in the wake of the government's rescue of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, when President Bush discussed the road ahead in Iraq and Afghanistan, on what did the campaign of Senator John McCain spend its energy? A conference call to denounce Senator Barack Obama for using the phrase 'lipstick on a pig' and a new television ad accusing the Democrat of wanting to teach kindergartners about sex before they learn to read.'' 
 Some McCain supporters criticize Obama for not having the steel in his belly to use force in the dangerous world we live in today. Well I know this: In order to use force, you have to have force. In order to exercise leverage, you have to have leverage.
 I don't know how much steel is in Obama's belly, but I do know that the issues he is focusing on in this campaign -- improving education and health care, dealing with the deficit and forging a real energy policy based on building a whole new energy infrastructure -- are the only way we can put steel back into America's spine. McCain, alas, has abandoned those issues for the culture-war strategy. 
 Who cares how much steel John McCain has in his gut when the steel that today holds up our bridges, railroads, nuclear reactors and other infrastructure is rusting? McCain talks about how he would build dozens of nuclear power plants. Oh, really? They go for $10 billion a pop. Where is the money going to come from? From lowering taxes? From banning abortions? From borrowing more from China? From having Sarah Palin ''reform'' Washington -- as if she has any more clue how to do that than the first 100 names in the D.C. phonebook? 
 Sorry, but there is no sustainable political/military power without economic power, and talking about one without the other is nonsense. Unless we make America the country most able to innovate, compete and win in the age of globalization, our leverage in the world will continue to slowly erode. Those are the issues this election needs to be about, because that is what the next four years need to be about. 
 There is no strong leader without a strong country. And posing as one, to use the current vernacular, is nothing more than putting lipstick on a pig. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



378 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: The Final Days

 BODY:
Peter Baker mentions that President Bush feels that he will be vindicated in doing ''what he thought was right,'' in part based on the case made by documents housed in the planned George W. Bush Presidential Library at Southern Methodist University (Aug. 31).
 But since the president has ruled that so many of the documents absolutely crucial to making that case will be off-limits to journalists and historians for the foreseeable future, that assertion has the same hollow ring as most of the other promises Mr. Bush has made these past seven and a half years. 
 The American public should not have to contribute to a presidential library -- tradition notwithstanding -- in which virtually every unfavorable document, paper or electronic, that tells the true story behind key events is beyond public scrutiny and analysis.
 NEIL CHESANOW 
 Montvale, N.J.
 Peter Baker asserts that no one should feel sorry for President Bush because ''he knew what he was getting into.'' The 9/11 terrorist attacks were unprecedented. Such devastation and extremism were not anticipated by anyone, especially George Bush. He probably couldn't believe the circumstances that had befallen him and the rest of the world.
 Baker is correct when he says that the president ''is doing what he thinks is right.'' It is this certainty, which looks like arrogance and hubris, that has been Bush's downfall. 
 The words of Bertrand Russell come to mind when I think of Bush's tarnished legacy: ''The whole problem with the world is that fools and fanatics are always so certain of themselves, but wiser people so full of doubts.'' The irony of those words is that they apply equally to Bush and to the extremists of Al Qaeda. 
 LARRY HOFFNER
 New York
 President Bush, the senior, may be given a fatherly pass for his focus on the critics of his son's presidency rather than the sad legacy of this administration.
 Where he doesn't get a pass is in suggesting that his son was an innocent bystander as America's economy went south. Bush, the junior, said Wall Street got drunk. 
 He should know. He and his appointees to federal regulatory posts gave the keys to the liquor cabinet to Wall Street and never looked back. 
 WALTER MEDWID
 Newport, Vt. 
 The Bush administration has made a habit of insisting that ''history'' will be the ultimate judge of the wisdom of its policies and the worthiness of its war in Iraq. This is a convenient crutch, as it allows President Bush to escape responsibility for the disastrous decisions of his tenure. Will anyone look back favorably at Bush's nonexistent response to Hurricane Katrina? In the future, will we truly take our economic cues from an administration that squandered an enormous budget surplus, cutting taxes for the rich and standing by as Americans endured an unprecedented housing crisis? Will historians look back at the promotion of state-sponsored torture with forgiveness? 
 Thirty years from now, will anyone of sound mind recall the massive death toll in Iraq and proclaim the war a historic success? The odds seem slim.
 PETER W. FULHAM
 Middletown, Del.
 Before declaring George Bush's administration a failure, consider that he has packed the Supreme Court with right-wingers; rewarded his fat-cat backers with massive tax cuts and seen their wealth grow like Midas's; brought about the return of Big Oil to Iraq -- a dream of Vice President Dick Cheney's, if not his own; relaxed untold environmental and pro-worker regulations on behalf of business; and created an unprecedented boon for big business by contracting out everything from the Iraq war to the rebuilding after Katrina. In short, Bush has accomplished absolutely everything his supporters wished. It is this degree of ''failure'' that scares me about the slimmest chance of another Republican win this November.
 STEPHEN E. PHILLIPS
 Brooklyn
 Peter Baker's article appears on the surface to be a balanced look at how George W. Bush considers his legacy in the last days of his second term.
 In identifying the ''alternative narratives'' about Bush that are ''hard to reconcile,'' however, Baker blithely passes over the hard truth that lies behind Bush's pre-emptive war. His phrase ''misled the nation into a disastrous war'' does not come near the reality that Bush and his advisers planned the attack on Iraq well before he was ''elected'' in 2000. Recent revelations reveal that the so-called ''evidence'' of weapons of mass destruction was indeed created by the administration to ramp up support for the war.
 Why can't we acknowledge the bottom-line truth about this administration as it's revealed -- regardless of ''alternative narratives''?
 NANCY OWEN NELSON
 Prescott, Ariz. 
 His friend's comment, ''Bush doesn't second-guess himself,'' explains President Bush's tremendous difficulty learning from experience.
 Bush's religious convictions are clues to his mind-set. Prior to his election, Bush allegedly said, ''I believe God wants me to be president.'' In 2004, he reportedly said: ''I trust God speaks through me. Without that I couldn't do my job.'' Bush suffers from a severe case of megalomania.
 C. W. GRIFFIN
 Honolulu

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (87%); HISTORY (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); LIBRARIES (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); WRITERS (72%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); HURRICANE KATRINA (67%); AL-QAEDA (67%); HURRICANES (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (64%); BUDGETS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



379 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1574 words

HEADLINE: The Palin-Whatshisname Ticket

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
WITH all due deference to lipstick, let's advance the story. A week ago the question was: Is Sarah Palin qualified to be a heartbeat away from the presidency? The question today: What kind of president would Sarah Palin be?
 It's an urgent matter, because if we've learned anything from the G.O.P. convention and its aftermath, it's that the 2008 edition of John McCain is too weak to serve as America's chief executive. This unmentionable truth, more than race, is now the real elephant in the room of this election. 
 No longer able to remember his principles any better than he can distinguish between Sunnis and Shia, McCain stands revealed as a guy who can be easily rolled by anyone who sells him a plan for ''victory,'' whether in Iraq or in Michigan. A McCain victory on Election Day will usher in a Palin presidency, with McCain serving as a transitional front man, an even weaker Bush to her Cheney. 
 The ambitious Palin and the ruthless forces she represents know it, too. You can almost see them smacking their lips in anticipation, whether they're wearing lipstick or not. 
 This was made clear in the most chilling passage of Palin's acceptance speech. Aligning herself with ''a young farmer and a haberdasher from Missouri'' who ''followed an unlikely path to the vice presidency,'' she read a quote from an unidentified writer who, she claimed, had praised Truman: ''We grow good people in our small towns, with honesty and sincerity and dignity.'' Then Palin added a snide observation of her own: Such small-town Americans, she said, ''run our factories'' and ''fight our wars'' and are ''always proud'' of their country. As opposed to those lazy, shiftless, unproud Americans -- she didn't have to name names -- who are none of the above.
 There were several creepy subtexts at work here. The first was the choice of Truman. Most 20th-century vice presidents and presidents in both parties hailed from small towns, but she just happened to alight on a Democrat who ascended to the presidency when an ailing president died in office. Just as striking was the unnamed writer she quoted. He was identified by Thomas Frank in The Wall Street Journal as the now largely forgotten but once powerful right-wing Hearst columnist Westbrook Pegler.
 Palin, who lies with ease about her own record, misrepresented Pegler's too. He decreed America was ''done for'' after Truman won a full term in 1948. For his part, Truman regarded the columnist as a ''guttersnipe,'' and with good reason. Pegler was a rabid Joe McCarthyite who loathed F.D.R. and Ike and tirelessly advanced the theory that American Jewish immigrants from Eastern Europe (''geese,'' he called them) were all likely Communists. 
 Surely Palin knows no more about Pegler than she does about the Bush doctrine. But the people around her do, and they will be shaping a Palin presidency. That they would inject not just Pegler's words but spirit into their candidate's speech shows where they're coming from. Rick Davis, the McCain campaign manager, said that the Palin-sparked convention created ''a whole new Republican Party,'' but what it actually did was exhume an old one from its crypt.
 The specifics have changed in our new century, but the vitriolic animus of right-wing populism preached by Pegler and McCarthy and revived by the 1990s culture wars remains the same. The game is always to pit the good, patriotic real Americans against those subversive, probably gay ''cosmopolitan'' urbanites (as the sometime cross-dresser Rudy Giuliani has it) who threaten to take away everything that small-town folk hold dear. 
 The racial component to this brand of politics was undisguised in St. Paul. Americans saw a virtually all-white audience yuk it up when Giuliani ridiculed Barack Obama's ''only in America'' success as an affirmative-action fairy tale -- and when he and Palin mocked Obama's history as a community organizer in Chicago. Neither party has had so few black delegates (1.5 percent) in the 40 years since the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies started keeping a record. 
 But race is just one manifestation of the emotion that defined the Palin rollout. That dominant emotion is fear -- an abject fear of change. Fear of a demographical revolution that will put whites in the American minority by 2042. Fear of the technological revolution and globalization that have gutted those small towns and factories Palin apotheosized.
 And, last but hardly least, fear of illegal immigrants who do the low-paying jobs that Americans don't want to do and of legal immigrants who do the high-paying jobs that poorly educated Americans are not qualified to do. No less revealing than Palin's convention invocation of Pegler was the pointed omission of any mention of immigration, once the hottest Republican issue, by either her or McCain. Saying the word would have cued an eruption of immigrant-bashing ugliness, Pegler-style, before a national television audience. That wouldn't play in the swing states of Colorado, New Mexico and Nevada, where Obama already has a more than 2-to-1 lead among Hispanic voters. (Bush captured roughly 40 percent of the Hispanic vote in 2004.) 
 Since St. Paul, Democrats have been feasting on the hypocrisy of the Palin partisans, understandably enough. The same Republicans who attack Democrats for being too P.C. about race now howl about sexism with such abandon you half-expect Phyllis Schlafly and Carly Fiorina to stage a bra-burning. The same gang that once fueled Internet rumors and media feeding frenzies over the Clintons' private lives now express pious outrage when the same fate befalls the Palins. 
 But the ultimate hypocrisy is that these woebegone, frightened opponents of change, sworn enemies of race-based college-admission initiatives, are now demanding their own affirmative action program for white folks applying to the electoral college. They want the bar for admission to the White House to be placed so low that legitimate scrutiny and criticism of Palin's qualifications, record and family values can all be placed off limits. Byron York of National Review, a rare conservative who acknowledges the double standard, captured it best: ''If the Obamas had a 17-year-old daughter who was unmarried and pregnant by a tough-talking black kid, my guess is if they all appeared onstage at a Democratic convention and the delegates were cheering wildly, a number of conservatives might be discussing the issue of dysfunctional black families.'' 
 The cunning of the Palin choice as a political strategy is that a candidate who embodies fear of change can be sold as a ''maverick'' simply because she looks the part. Her marketers have a lot to work with. Palin is not only the first woman on a Republican presidential ticket, but she is young, vibrant and a Washington outsider with no explicit connection to Bush or the war in Iraq. That package looks like change even if what's inside is anything but.
 How do you run against that flashy flimflam? You don't. Karl Rove for once gave the Democrats a real tip rather than a bum steer when he wrote last week that if Obama wants to win, ''he needs to remember he's running against John McCain for president,'' not Palin for vice president. Obama should keep stepping up the blitz on McCain's flip-flops, confusion, ignorance and blurriness on major issues (from education to an exit date from Iraq), rather than her gaffes and resume. If he focuses voters on the 2008 McCain, the Palin question will take care of itself.
 Obama's one break last week was the McCain camp's indication that it's likely to minimizeits candidate's solo appearances by joining him at the hip with Palin. There's a political price to be paid for this blatant admission that he needs her to draw crowds. McCain's conspicuous subservience to his younger running mate's hard-right ideology and his dependence on her electioneering energy raise the question of who has the power in this relationship and who is in charge. A strong and independent woman or the older ward who would be bobbing in a golf cart without her? The more voters see that McCain will be the figurehead for a Palin presidency, the more they are likely to demand stepped-up vetting of the rigidly scripted heir apparent.
 But Obama's most important tactic is still the one he has the most trouble executing. He must convey a roll-up-your-sleeves Bobby Kennedy passion for the economic crises that are at the heart of the fears that Palin is trying to exploit. The Republican ticket offers no answers to those anxieties. Drilling isn't going to lower gas prices or speed energy independence. An increase in corporate tax breaks isn't going to end income inequality, provide health care or save American jobs in a Palin presidency any more than they did in a Bush presidency. 
 This election is still about the fierce urgency of change before it's too late. But in framing this debate, it isn't enough for Obama to keep presenting McCain as simply a third Bush term. Any invocation of the despised president -- like Iraq -- invites voters to stop listening. Meanwhile, before our eyes, McCain is turning over the keys to his administration to ideologues and a running mate to Bush's right. 
 As Republicans know best, fear does work. If Obama is to convey just what's at stake, he must slice through the campaign's lipstick jungle and show Americans the real perils that lie around the bend.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (53%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



380 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Protection

 BODY:
Voters give Senator Barack Obama enthusiastic applause whenever he promises to take on the credit card companies -- and he makes that promise often. Yet, his Democratic colleagues are stalling a crucial House vote on a bill that could give Americans essential protections. 
 Too many people are finding that even if they pay their bills regularly, their interest rates can still be jacked through the roof. The Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights would help rein in some of the worst abuses. It would stop creditors from applying interest rates retroactively to balances incurred under an old rate, or charging late fees for checks mailed days before the due date. 
 Mr. Obama and his running mate, Senator Joseph Biden, should urge House Speaker Nancy Pelosi -- who appears to be listening to the bankers more than consumers -- to allow a vote on the bill before the November elections. They should sponsor the same legislation in the Senate and invite Senator John McCain, who has pledged to help struggling Americans, to join the fight. 
 This reform poses a particular challenge to Mr. Biden, who hails from Delaware, a state where financial services are big business. The banking industry has contributed handsomely to his campaigns and once employed his son. The senator voted for the disastrous bankruptcy overhaul three years ago. 
 That law has made it far harder and costlier for people to declare bankruptcy. It also forces struggling consumers into what is called a ''sweatbox of credit card debt.'' Customers in financial trouble are forced to pay larger fees and interest rates over a longer period of time before they can finally declare bankruptcy.
 Mr. McCain also voted for this burdensome law. Mr. Obama voted no and has proposed a reform that would at least provide relief to military families, the elderly and victims of natural disasters. He has also promised new credit card rules to help consumers. Mr. Biden now says he agrees with Mr. Obama's views. 
 Governor Sarah Palin's position on credit card and bankruptcy reform are still a mystery, and Mr. McCain has not taken a position on the new bill.
 For all of these candidates who keep talking about helping the ordinary American, this should be an easy one. Get behind the Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights now, before the election. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (77%); FAMILY (66%); NATURAL DISASTERS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); JOE BIDEN (78%); SARAH PALIN (58%); NANCY PELOSI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008



381 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: Economic Cause and Effect?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Would Obama's Plan Be Faster, Fairer, Stronger?'' (Economic View, Aug. 31): 
The column noted that when a Democrat has been president, the country has had greater economic growth and less inequality. Democratic presidents may have presided over stronger economies, but that does not necessarily mean they were responsible for the economic strength.
Here is an alternative explanation: In prosperous times, people want to keep more of what they earn, so they tend to vote Republican. In difficult times, people want more government help, so they tend to vote Democratic. Because prosperity is intrinsically cyclical, Democrats who were elected in bad times tend to preside over improving economies, whereas Republicans elected in good times tend to preside over worsening economies.
I plan to vote for Barack Obama because I believe his plan is right, not because of the column's view of history. Daniel Dickinson
Mountain View, Calif., Sept. 3
To the Editor:
In the last 36 years that a Republican has held the presidency, Democrats have controlled both houses of Congress about two-thirds of the time.
While the column says that economic growth has generally been slower -- and inequality greater -- under Republican presidents, couldn't these conditions be attributed just as easily to Congress, whose legislative power can impact the economy more?
Michael Gutch
Manhattan, Sept. 3

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



382 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: Creativity Helps Rochester's Transit System Turn a Profit

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
At a time when public transportation systems around the country are struggling with soaring fuel costs and pinched budgets, the bus system in Rochester has done something that few others would contemplate: This month, it lowered its single-ride fare. 
 Rochester's Regional Transit Service is no behemoth. It carries 15 million riders a year, as many as the New York City transit system carries in two days. But as economic hard times have reduced tax revenues and increased demand for government transit subsidies, its experiences may provide valuable lessons for larger cities that are planning fare increases, like New York, Minneapolis and Cleveland. 
 The Rochester system, which expects to run a surplus for the third year in a row, has been able to reduce its one-ride fare in part by eliminating some low-trafficked routes, avoiding debt and aggressively raising revenues from other sources. The fare fell to $1 from $1.25 on Sept. 1.
 It has, for instance, reached agreements with the local public school district, colleges and private businesses to help subsidize its operations, warning in some cases that certain routes might be cut if ridership did not increase or a local business did not help cover the cost. In recent years, income from these agreements has equaled or exceeded the income from regular passenger fares. 
 All the while, ridership has increased by 7.4 percent over the last two years in an area where the population has remained stable. And while only about 1 out of 6 customers pays the single-ride fare (the majority use daily, weekly or monthly passes), the transit service expects further ridership gains now with the fare cut in place. 
 ''With gas prices at record highs, there is no better way to convince people who are beginning to look at public transportation,'' said Mark R. Aesch, the chief executive of the Rochester Genesee Regional Transportation Authority, which runs the bus system. 
 Bus riders in interviews last week were generally pleased with the fare reduction, although some were upset that it did not extend to the multitrip passes. 
 ''It's the best thing that's happened in a long time,'' said Eric Johnson, 25, a construction worker who rides the bus several times a week and pays the single-trip fare. ''With everything going up in price, for once something's going down.''
 Rochester's successes seem all the more noteworthy given the trend in public transit fares around the country. In New York City, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority raised subway and bus fares for most riders last March, and it has proposed another increase that would take effect in July and a third in 2011. In Minneapolis, bus and light-rail fares are scheduled to go up next month, and in Cleveland, transit officials are considering both a fare increase and service cuts that would take place in November.
 Any comparisons between Rochester's transit system and its larger cousins must take into account the vast difference in scale. The Rochester system has 265 buses and an annual budget of $62 million. New York City Transit owns more than 4,500 buses and 6,200 subway cars, and it spends more than $6 billion a year to run them. 
 Still, the accomplishments in Rochester are notable. Efficiency has improved, with buses driving fewer miles, carrying more passengers and generating more revenue in fares. The transit agency has installed a satellite locator system in its buses to track whether they are on schedule. Next year, it will install electronic signs in some bus stops to tell riders when the next bus will arrive.
 New York has struggled for years to make similar technologies work with its fleet, with only limited success. 
 And the Rochester authority has no debt, while the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which runs the buses and subways in New York City, the Long Island Rail Road and Metro-North Railroad, is one of the biggest debtors in the nation, owing about $24 billion. 
 Just four years ago, the Rochester authority was in financial straits and facing large deficits. Since then, it has lobbied successfully for increases in state aid, receiving $32.8 million this year, up from $16 million four years ago. It helps that a local assemblyman, David F. Gantt, is chairman of the Assembly Transportation Committee. 
 The authority has banked its surpluses and now has $19 million in cash reserves. New York, the authority is projecting a budget shortfall of close to $1 billion next year.
 The Rochester authority has also helped itself by working out subsidy agreements with local businesses and educational institutions. 
 One of the most important is with the Rochester City School District, which uses the Regional Transit Service as the primary bus system for nearly all of its students in the 7th through 12th grades. Several years ago, the school district paid the equivalent of a regular fare for each student rider, according to Mr. Aesch. But about three years ago, with the transit system facing a financial crisis, he began discussions with the district about radically altering the arrangement. 
 Mr. Aesch told school officials that the money they were paying to transport students only partly covered the cost and that the system could no longer afford the service without a significant increase in payments. The school district agreed to an increase, and it now pays about $2.22 for each student ride. 
 Even by paying a premium, the school district believes it is getting a good deal, said Jean-Claude Brizard, the superintendent. He said that during the current school year, the district will pay the Regional Transit Service about $10 million for student bus travel. But the district estimated that it if it contracted with a private company for the same service, the cost would be more than $2 million higher. 
 ''We've saved a ton of money,'' Mr. Brizard said. 
 The arrangement is one that transit officials in New York City could only dream of. The subway and bus system in New York City now provides millions of rides a year to students using free or half-fare passes. In turn, it receives a total of $90 million from the city and state. But according to the authority, that accounts for only half the value of the lost fares. 
 In Rochester, the transit system has also formed agreements with private businesses and colleges. It runs shuttle buses on the campus of the Rochester Institute of Technology and provides special weekend service to the campus, for which it receives about $1 million a year. The developer of an apartment complex in suburban Brighton pays $1,200 a year to ensure that a bus line runs by the property. 
 And last week, the Rochester authority announced a new agreement with Bryant & Stratton College, which has two campuses in the area. Under the deal, the college will pay $17,700 in exchange for 350 bus passes that it can distribute at a discount to students. In exchange, transit officials have agreed to continue service on a little-used section of a bus route that goes to the college's campus in the suburb of Greece, and to run a bus there later in the day for students taking evening classes.
 ''They recognized that with gas prices high, and trying to attract students to the campus, they needed to keep that service in place in order to attract students to the school,'' Mr. Aesch said, referring to the college's officials. 
 Marc Ambrosi, a campus director for Bryant & Stratton, said, ''On both sides there's benefits.''
 Expressing deep concern about the potential for future fare hikes in New York City, Gov. David A. Paterson created a commission in the spring to recommend long-term solutions to the New York authority's deepening financial problems. But it is not clear how many of the lessons fromRochester might apply. 
 Jeremy Soffin, a spokesman for the authority, said that while he was not familiar with the arrangements in Rochester, the authority in New York had not pursued similar arrangements with private companies, and there were no bus routes with ridership so low that they could be discontinued. 
 But he said the two systems faced similar challenges.
 ''Even though we operate at a completely different scale,'' Mr. Soffin said, ''the commonality is that we both have to think creatively to fund the system where the fare doesn't cover the cost of providing the ride.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bus ridership in Rochester has risen 7.4 percent in two years. The transit authority uses subsidies from businesses and has cut some little-used routes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON RAJOTTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (91%); BUDGETS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); SCHOOL & EMPLOYEE BUS SERVICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); TRENDS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (57%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (52%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (52%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008



383 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 511 words

 BODY:
A CONTINUING CRISIS A year into the nation's financial crisis, few dreamed things would spiral down so far, so fast. 
 NEW CAPITAL FOR A.I.G. Insurance regulators and executives of the American International Group rushed to arrange a capital infusion to stabilize the insurance company in the face of possible credit downgrades. [C1.] 
 CONCERN OVER SHORT SELLERS Investors are worried that short-selling fund managers will take advantage of the climate of fear stirred up by the collapse of Lehman to aim at other weak financial firms. [C1.]
 AUTOMATED NEWS The plunge in UAL stock last week was started by a series of cascading human and machine errors and raised questions about the reliability of automated news services like Google News and the struggles of some traditional media companies to adapt to the Internet age. [C1.] 
 AN ASSET AT ANCHOR In a year when fundamental assumptions about race, gender and politics are up for grabs in an election that might pivot on things besides policy, having a woman in the anchor chair with a history of roaming across all kinds of subject matter might be a pretty good asset. The Media Equation: David Carr [C1.]
 NEGATIVE CAMPAIGN ADS The political ads in the federal election in Canada are nothing if not negative and include a critical image of a liberal leader, Stephane Dion. [C3.]
 TEXTBOOKS ONLINE A few college professors have started putting their textbooks online to protest the high prices that textbook publishers can get. [C3.]
 ONLINE BUSINESS NEWS The Washington Post Company is adding a business site, The Big Money, to its roster of online sites, joining Slate and others. [C4.]
 COVERING GAS WELLS The Chesapeake Energy Corporation is providing money for a video news Web site to cover the development of natural gas wells in northern Texas. [C4.]
 LEVI'S CAMPAIGN The Levi's 501 button-fly line of jeans sold by Levi Strauss & Company is joining with the Logo unit of MTV, a network aimed at gay and lesbian viewers, for a campaign called ''Logo Unbuttoned.'' Advertising: Stuart Elliott [C5.]
 THE TRINKET POLLCafePress.com, a maker of trinkets like throw pillows, said orders for politically related items are a reliable indicator of whom the voters favor. [C4.] 
 DEMOCRACY CONTEST The State Department is asking the world to create three-minute videos that answer the question ''Democracy is ... ?'' as part of a new contest timed to mark International Democracy Day. [C4.]
 SHOW BUSINESS TUTORS Hollywood agents, executives and power brokers have been slipping off to the University of California, Los Angeles, to provide China's next wave of film and television moguls with a private tutorial in show business. [C4.]
 HOTEL TELEVISION Many hotel chains are bowing to pressure and replacing their old picture tube TVs with new L.C.D. and plasma flat screens, but most have failed to take that one last step: adding high-definition service. [C5.] 
 WEB TRIBUTESTributes.com, a new Web site, hopes to bring the social networking and archival features of sites like classmates.com to obituaries. [C6.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (88%); FILM (86%); TEXTBOOKS (86%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (83%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (75%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); WEB SITES (69%); TALENT AGENTS (68%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (68%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); GAYS & LESBIANS (61%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (82%); CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORP (81%); WASHINGTON POST CO (54%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); CHK (NYSE) (81%); WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (82%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (81%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: STEPHANE DION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008



384 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Stunning Fall for Main Street's Brokerage Firm

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY; Jenny Anderson and Andrew Ross Sorkin contributed reporting.

 BODY:
It is the end of an era for Merrill Lynch, the brokerage firm that brought Wall Street to Main Street.
Merrill, which has lost more than $45 billion on its mortgage investments, agreed to sell itself on Sunday to Bank of America for $50.3 billion in stock, according to people briefed on the negotiations.
It is a remarkable fall from grace for the 94-year-old Merrill, whose corporate logo -- a bull -- has long symbolized the fundamental optimism of Wall Street. After a frantic weekend of talks between Wall Street executives and federal officials over the fate of the teetering Lehman Brothers, fear spread on Sunday that Merrill, staggered by losses, might also falter. The merger would combine Bank of America's banking and lending strength with Merrill Lynch's wealth management expertise.
''It is an enormous shock,'' said Steve Fraser, a Wall Street historian and author of ''Wall Street: America's Dream Palace'' (Yale University Press, 2008). 
''Merrill was a kind of bedrock institution whose stability and longevity was taken for granted and was reassuring to people,'' Mr. Fraser said. ''Even in these very highly erratic and speculative marketplaces like we've been living through, you didn't think Merrill would be vulnerable.''
The sale, if completed, would open a new chapter for Merrill, which was founded in 1914 and promoted the idea that anyone, not just the rich, should invest in markets. Merrill's brokers would be combined with Bank of America's smaller group of wealth advisers into an entity called Merrill Lynch Wealth Management, these people said. Customers with brokerage accounts at Merrill are unlikely to be financially affected.
Merrill, the nation's largest brokerage firm, was one of the earliest Wall Street firms to go public, in 1971. Its executives, traditionally former stockbrokers, have long been viewed as spokespeople for the entire industry. After the crash of 1987, for instance, Merrill's chief executive appeared on a television commercial and used one of the company's long-time slogans, saying: ''Merrill Lynch is still bullish on America.''
In a conference call on Monday, Bank of America's chief executive, Kenneth D. Lewis, called Merrill's 17,000 financial advisers ''the crown jewel of the company.'' He said that Bank of America might offer Merrill's brokers a bonus to stay after the merger, and he said they could expect more business because of the deal.
''The financial advisers need to get ready to begin receiving a lot of referrals,'' Mr. Lewis said.
Merrill's chairman and chief executive, John A. Thain, said the merger should provide ''a lot of comfort'' to the financial advisers because it would add financial stability to the company.
Mr. Thain was brought in last December to try to salvage the troubled company. It remains unclear how many Merrill employees will be hired by Bank of America.
Since the credit crisis first flared more than a year ago, Merrill has been among the most wounded. Under its previous chief executive, E. Stanley O'Neal, Merrill moved aggressively into the mortgage market and became one of the top issuers of investment vehicles linked to subprime mortgages and other risky forms of debt. Mr. O'Neal was forced out last fall after the tumult in the mortgage market began.
Since then, the investment bank has taken more than $45 billion in write-downs, twice the amount of profit Merrill made in the two and a half years before the credit crisis. The charges have pushed Merrill Lynch deep into the red and forced the company to lay off 4,000 workers. Merrill has raised more than $15 billion in additional capital to strengthen its financial position but has struggled to regain investors' confidence. Employees reached Sunday night reacted with dismay and said they would consider leaving after Bank of America took over. Many said they were saddened that Merrill, which has long prided itself on its independence, would now become part of a larger commercial bank.
''A hundred guys flew this firm into a mountain,'' said a broker who works for Merrill in California and asked to remain anonymous because he did not have permission to speak with reporters. ''It's really sad. Now we're going to be a bank like every one else.''
Many employees had hoped that Mr. Thain would turn the company around. A former Goldman Sachs executive, Mr. Thain is known as Mr. Fix-It because he pushed the New York Stock Exchange into the modern era as its chief executive over the last two years.
Mr. Thain undertook seven major transactions this summer in hopes of bolstering Merrill. Among them was the sale of Merrill's $4.4 billion stake in Bloomberg, the financial news and data service. Merrill also raised $9.8 billion of common equity and shed $31 billion of its risky mortgage investments for pennies on the dollar.
Explaining his decisions in an interview in July, Mr. Thain pointed to employee morale and said Merrill needed to move beyond its past.
''We have over 60,000 people working every day,'' Mr. Thain said. ''All the efforts of these people were overwhelmed by the write-downs in the mortgage-related assets.''
Merrill Lynch has been through tough times before. As the stock market soared in the 1920s, Charles E. Merrill, one of the company's founders, worried about speculation and advised his clients that they should ''take advantage of present high prices and put your financial house in order.'' After the stock market crash of 1929, Merrill survived in large part by spinning off its retail brokerage business and focusing on investment banking. The company later reunited.
Many Americans remained skeptical of Wall Street even into the 1950s, and Merrill Lynch used its marketing and local branches to try to build a better reputation for the industry. At the same time it began expanding into Europe. In the 1990s, Merrill was the first financial services company to surpass $1 trillion in client assets under management, according to the company's Web site.
Under the takeover proposal, the new combined group, Merrill Lynch Wealth Management, would be run by Robert J. McCann, the head of Merrill's global wealth management business. Gregory J. Fleming, president of Merrill Lynch, would become president of the combined bank's corporate and investment bank, while Thomas K. Montag, who started at Merrill Lynch in August, would be head of all risk, trading and institutional sales, the people briefed on the negotiations said.
Merrill's top executives had long believed the company would survive the turmoil in the markets, but changed their minds this weekend. Some observers said they might have been wise to do so.
''Almost all of these institutions are worth a lot more while they're still operating and before they get caught in a financial hurricane,'' said James A. Wilcox, a professor at the Haas School of Business at University of California, Berkeley, and a former chief economist at the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
As recently as last Wednesday, Mr. Thain was still out selling the Merrill story. He met with worried employees and financial advisers in Minneapolis as part of a series of town halls he has been holding to answer employee questions. Mr. Thain reassured them about the company's capital base, dwindling level of worrisome assets and the value of Merrill Lynch's businesses, according to someone who attended.
And he told them that the pain looked like it would end by 2009.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Merrill Lynch's offices. Merrill, which was founded in 1914, had long promoted the idea that anyone, not just the rich, should invest in the markets.
 The statue of the bull in Lower Manhattan. The mortgage crisis has taken a toll on the stock markets, including the nation's largest brokerage firms like Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); MERGERS (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); HISTORY (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (85%); YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (85%); BAC (LSE) (85%); 8648 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: JOHN THAIN (58%); KENNETH D LEWIS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



385 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Financial Russian Roulette

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Will the U.S. financial system collapse today, or maybe over the next few days? I don't think so -- but I'm nowhere near certain. You see, Lehman Brothers, a major investment bank, is apparently about to go under. And nobody knows what will happen next.
 To understand the problem, you need to know that the old world of banking, in which institutions housed in big marble buildings accepted deposits and lent the money out to long-term clients, has largely vanished, replaced by what is widely called the ''shadow banking system.'' Depository banks, the guys in the marble buildings, now play only a minor role in channeling funds from savers to borrowers; most of the business of finance is carried out through complex deals arranged by ''nondepository'' institutions, institutions like the late lamented Bear Stearns -- and Lehman. 
 The new system was supposed to do a better job of spreading and reducing risk. But in the aftermath of the housing bust and the resulting mortgage crisis, it seems apparent that risk wasn't so much reduced as hidden: all too many investors had no idea how exposed they were. 
 And as the unknown unknowns have turned into known unknowns, the system has been experiencing postmodern bank runs. These don't look like the old-fashioned version: with few exceptions, we're not talking about mobs of distraught depositors pounding on closed bank doors. Instead, we're talking about frantic phone calls and mouse clicks, as financial players pull credit lines and try to unwind counterparty risk. But the economic effects -- a freezing up of credit, a downward spiral in asset values -- are the same as those of the great bank runs of the 1930s. 
 And here's the thing: The defenses set up to prevent a return of those bank runs, mainly deposit insurance and access to credit lines with the Federal Reserve, only protect the guys in the marble buildings, who aren't at the heart of the current crisis. That creates the real possibility that 2008 could be 1931 revisited.
 Now, policy makers are aware of the risks -- before he was given responsibility for saving the world, Ben Bernanke was one of our leading experts on the economics of the Great Depression. So over the past year the Fed and the Treasury have orchestrated a series of ad hoc rescue plans. Special credit lines with unpronounceable acronyms were made available to nondepository institutions. The Fed and the Treasury brokered a deal that protected Bear's counterparties -- those on the other side of its deals -- though not its stockholders. And just last week the Treasury seized control of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the giant government-sponsored mortgage lenders.
 But the consequences of those rescues are making officials nervous. For one thing, they're taking big risks with taxpayer money. For example, today much of the Fed's portfolio is tied up in loans backed by dubious collateral. Also, officials are worried that their rescue efforts will encourage even more risky behavior in the future. After all, it's starting to look as if the rule is heads you win, tails the taxpayers lose.
 Which brings us to Lehman, which has suffered large real-estate-related losses, and faces a crisis of confidence. Like many financial institutions, Lehman has a huge balance sheet -- it owes vast sums, and is owed vast sums in return. Trying to liquidate that balance sheet quickly could lead to panic across the financial system. That's why government officials and private bankers have spent the weekend huddled at the New York Fed, trying to put together a deal that would save Lehman, or at least let it fail more slowly. 
 But Henry Paulson, the Treasury secretary, was adamant that he wouldn't sweeten the deal by putting more public funds on the line. Many people thought he was bluffing. I was all ready to start today's column, ''When life hands you Lehman, make Lehman aid.'' But there was no aid, and apparently no deal. Mr. Paulson seems to be betting that the financial system -- bolstered, it must be said, by those special credit lines -- can handle the shock of a Lehman failure. We'll find out soon whether he was brave or foolish.
 The real answer to the current problem would, of course, have been to take preventive action before we reached this point. Even leaving aside the obvious need to regulate the shadow banking system -- if institutions need to be rescued like banks, they should be regulated like banks -- why were we so unprepared for this latest shock? When Bear went under, many people talked about the need for a mechanism for ''orderly liquidation'' of failing investment banks. Well, that was six months ago. Where's the mechanism?
 And so here we are, with Mr. Paulson apparently feeling that playing Russian roulette with the U.S. financial system was his best option. Yikes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (86%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (74%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (52%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (60%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (80%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (80%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (60%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008



386 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: As Fuel Costs Rise, Wood Stoves Gain Converts

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
JEFFERSON VALLEY, N.Y. -- Fire Glow Distributors Inc., a store in this hamlet in the Westchester County suburb of Yorktown Heights, has pellet stoves on back order. Tree trimmers for the utility company in Orange and Rockland Counties, used to scavengers in pickup trucks, have spotted Mercedes-Benzes trailing their crews to load logs into their (carefully lined) trunks.
And in Spring Valley, a village in Rockland County, landscapers like John Wickes are being pestered for the scrap branches they had to pay to dump just a few months ago.
''There are wood wars,'' said Mr. Wickes, a third-generation co-owner of Ira Wickes, a family arborist business founded in 1929. ''People are desperate to look for ways to heat their homes cheaply.'' 
After a summer of high oil and gas prices, suburb dwellers around New York, and across the country, are going low-tech in hopes of reducing their energy bills this winter.
Shipments of pellet stoves, which can be inserted into a fireplace, more than tripled in the first half of 2008 compared with the same period in 2007, according to the Hearth, Patio and Barbecue Association; deliveries of wood stoves have jumped 54 percent. In the New York suburbs, the going rate for a cord of wood is $225, up from $175 last year, and the price of pellets, usually made from compressed sawdust, which has been scarce because of a slowdown in homebuilding, is also up (some people also burn shelled corn, peanuts, cotton and even cherry or olive pits).
Homeowners, not just in rural areas but also in the suburbs, are scrounging for wood, getting permits to cut in parks, hitting up tree-cutting crews and striking deals with neighbors.
Wood and wood-burning heating stoves go through spasms of popularity whenever oil and gas prices shoot up, most recently in 2005 after Hurricane Katrina. But this year's run-up in prices was so rapid and sustained that people started planning for the coming winter not long after last winter's snow melted.
''Sales never slowed down in May, June and July in the Northeast,'' said Alan Trusler, the vice president of sales at Hearth and Home Technologies, which has doubled production of wood and pellet stoves at its factories in Pennsylvania and Washington State. ''It's really fueled by economics.''
Residential heating oil prices during the coming season, October to March, are projected to average $4.13 per gallon, an increase of about 25 percent over last heating season, according to a forecast published on Tuesday by the federal Energy Information Administration. Residential natural gas prices over the same period are projected to average $14.93 per thousand cubic feet, compared with $12.72 during the last heating season, an increase of about 17 percent.
Angelo and Anna Cioffi of Pleasantville, N.Y., about an hour's drive north of Manhattan, started looking for a pellet stove in March, when fuel prices were beginning their surge. The Cioffis said their oil company offered to cap their fuel prices at $4.75 a gallon for a $200 up-front fee. If they did not ante up, the Cioffis said they were told, they could pay up to $5.25 -- nearly twice the $2.79 a gallon they paid last year.
So the Cioffis went to Fire Glow Distributors, whose Web site declares, ''Act now and be prepared for the next heating season!'' and found a Quadra-Fire pellet stove on sale. But they held off buying until June. By then, the store was sold out, so the stove will not be delivered until October at the earliest.
Mr. Cioffi, who runs a handyman business called A C HomePro and plans to install the stove himself, said he expected to recoup its $3,000 cost in five years. This winter, he figures to spend about $600 for two tons of pellets, which come in 40-pound bags for $4 to $6. He will also pay whatever it costs to run the stove's two electric fans to blow heat from the fireplace into his ranch house.
According to an online calculator at the Web site for the Pellet Fuels Institute, www.pelletheat.org/3/residential/compareFuel.cfm, pellets provide twice as much heat per dollar as oil.
''I hope to reduce my heating costs by half and not live like an Eskimo,'' said Mr. Cioffi, who is installing a more efficient water heater, too. ''We just can't keep sending our money overseas'' to oil-producing nations, he said.
Mr. Cioffi is not alone in casting wood burning in patriotic terms. A cardboard sign for Dry Creek, a pellet maker, is posted in the Fire Glow store with an Uncle Sam character imploring shoppers to ''start your own energy policy.'' One bag of pellets, the sign says, equals ''approximately 2.5 gallons of oil.''
Gail Meeker, the owner of the store, said some of her customers ''don't want to pay the Arabs money.''
Politics aside, Ms. Meeker has neither pellet stoves nor pellets in stock because so many customers bought stoves in the normally slow summer season instead of waiting for the thermometer to dip.
Pellet stoves are very popular with new converts to wood heat because they are cleaner and easier to maintain than traditional wood stoves and include conveniences like timers and thermostats. Wood stoves take longer to heat up than pellet stoves, and their smoke emissions can sometimes violate local ordinances.
But with so few pellet stoves in stock, many homeowners are now looking at wood stoves, which can cost a few hundred dollars less than a comparable pellet stove but take a lot more work. Owners have to find, chop and handle a lot of wood, and clean up the ashes the stoves create.
With demand driving up prices for precut cords of wood (technically 4 feet high and wide by 8 feet long), many stove owners are taking to their neighborhood streets in search of free fuel. In the Hudson Valley, crews working for Orange and Rockland, the local utility, which removes about 20,000 cubic yards of wood and branches each year, have noticed a growing number of foragers following their trucks in hopes of a bounty.
''One gentleman had a bed liner in the trunk of his Mercedes when he pulled up,'' said John Cerullo, whose company, National Field Service Corporation, does trims trees for the utility. Having recovered some logs, Mr. Cerullo said, ''he was smiling ear to ear.''
Some towns try to prevent roadside scrounging by setting up wood-recycling depots. In Yorktown Heights, landscapers can dump their waste wood at a public works center. The town turns some of the wood into mulch, which residents grab to use in their gardens. They can also take as many of the remaining logs as they like, and lately, they have been disappearing faster and faster.
Roger and Mary Muller, a retired couple who have lived in Yorktown Heights since 1972, stop by every couple of weeks for wood to fuel their stove. On a recent sunny afternoon, with the temperatures in the low 80s, Mr. Muller, 70, wielded a 14-inch chain saw to turn several logs into 25 or so manageable wood chunks. In turn, Mrs. Muller, 66, in a short-sleeved shirt and thick gloves, loaded them into the back of their red Chevy TrailBlazer.
''Gas is $340 a month,'' she said. ''So we have a room that we close off. The wood stove keeps it nice and toasty for us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Roger Muller picking up wood for his stove at the Yorktown Heights, N.Y., Highway Department. Residents are more frequently taking the logs, which are dumped there by landscapers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
 John Cerullo, center, who trims trees for utilities, says wood seekers trail the crews. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); SUBURBS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (88%); HEATING OIL (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); HEATING OIL PRICES (73%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); HVAC SYSTEMS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (68%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (68%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (57%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



387 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2383 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: September 15, 2008

 BODY:
International
 A MODERATE SUNNI LEADER 
 Is Killed in a Bombing in Iraq
 Fouad Ali Hussein al-Douri, a Sunni Arab leader of a citizen patrol group in Baghdad and a proponent of reconciliation and moderation in his neighborhood, was killed in a bombing over the weekend. It was the latest attack aimed at members of the so-called Awakening Councils, and a double blow, because of his efforts to promote reconciliation. PAGE A6
 CHINA FIRES LEADERS AFTER DEATHS
 China's state news agency announced that the governor and vice governor of Shanxi province lost their jobs after at least 254 villagers died last week when their homes were engulfed by a cascade of muddy iron ore waste from the reservoir of an unlicensed mine. Provincial officials in Shanxi may have also have hurt their credibility in Beijing last week by repeatedly and publicly underestimating the deaths caused by the mud flow. PAGE A10 
 CONQUERING A PEAK, AND A DIVIDE
 A group of Italian priests wanted Kenyans from different backgrounds to overcome an obstacle together, to show that cooperation was possible in their country, which has been torn by violence. And so a group of Kambas and Kikuyus, among others, set out to ascend Africa's second-highest peak, Mount Kenya. Though climbing the mountain required no special equipment, that did not mean it was easy. ''There better not be another war,'' one climber said. ''Because I ain't doing this again.'' PAGE A10
 CRISIS HAMPERS THAILAND'S TOURISM
 Somchai Wongsawat, Thailand's acting prime minister, lifted the country's state of emergency that began this month after a clash erupted between rival groups of protesters. He also warned that the continuing political crisis was frightening away tourists and tarnishing the country's image as the ''Land of Smiles,'' as tourism groups had noted sharp declines in the number of visitors and hotel occupancy. PAGE A11
 A CALL FOR AID TO AFGHANISTAN
 One of the most experienced Western envoys in Afghanistan, Francesc Vendrell, said that conditions in the country had deteriorated to their worst point since 2001. He urged a concerted American and foreign response, even before a new American administration took office, because Afghanistan's problems could result in ''a very cold winter'' that threatened to become ''a very hot winter for all of us.'' PAGE A7
 2 DIE IN PARIS TOUR BOAT SINKING
 Two people died in Paris after a small tourist boat sank Saturday night in the Seine near the Cathedral of Notre Dame. The police were investigating whether the boat hit a bridge or a larger tourist dinner boat. PAGE A11
 NATIONAL
 THEY WERE SUPPOSED
 To Stay on the Farm
 As with so many similar tales, the start was benign: in the early 1970s, bighead carp and silver carp were imported from China and eastern Siberia to eat the algae clotting fish farms in the South. But then came the floods in the late '80s and early '90s that helped them to escape their controlled environment. And now fears that they will make their way to the Great Lakes haunts the dreams of environmentalists, business owners and government officials. This Land, by Dan Barry. PAGE A12
 O.J. SIMPSON BACK ON TRIAL
 If you are the kind of person whose TV viewing has seemed strangely hollow since O.J. Simpson's murder trial ended in 1995, take heart. His new trial, on charges related to what prosecutors contend was a hotel room robbery and kidnapping, begins Monday. And the fact that he was acquitted in the previous case is not necessarily considered an advantage in this one. PAGE A12
 THE THIRD-TERM PROBLEM
 Fuel provided by Gov. Sarah Palin has Senator John McCain running neck and neck with Senator Barack Obama in the presidential election, according to most national polls. But how well Mr. McCain handles his relationship with President Bush may matter more. Since ratification in 1951 of the constitutional amendment barring any candidate from winning more than two presidential elections, five nominees have sought to extend their party's control of the White House for a third straight term. Four of them failed. The Caucus, by John Harwood. PAGE A21
 THE BATTLE FOR WOMEN
 Male voters might be forgiven for feeling like the afterthoughts in the presidential campaign; evidence abounds of how hard the two camps are battling over women. For openers, consider that after the news programs, ''Oprah'' is the chief recipient of campaign advertisements this year, with Senator John McCain buying more commercial spots on the show in the last month than Senator Barack Obama. PAGE A21
 OBITUARIES
 DAVID FOSTER WALLACE, 46
 His prodigiously observant, exuberantly plotted, grammatically and etymologically challenging, philosophically probing and culturally hyper-contemporary novels, stories and essays made him an heir to modern virtuosos like Thomas Pynchon and Don DeLillo and a clear influence on younger tour-de-force stylists like Dave Eggers and Jonathan Safran Foer. PAGE A26
 NEW YORK REPORT 
 A PUBLIC TRANSIT SYSTEM
 That Actually Turns a Profit
 At a time when public transportation systems around the country are struggling with soaring fuel costs and pinched budgets, the bus system in Rochester is running a surplus and has done something that few others would contemplate: it lowered its single-ride fare. It did so in part by eliminating some low-trafficked routes, avoiding debt and aggressively raising revenue from other sources. PAGE A25 
 RIVERSIDE AFFIRMS NEW PASTOR
 A sharply divided congregation voted to affirm the Rev. Dr. Brad R. Braxton, a Baptist minister and former Rhodes Scholar, as the sixth senior pastor of Riverside Church. Dr. Braxton, 39, follows the long and sometimes fractious tenure of the Rev. Dr. James A. Forbes, the first black senior pastor of the church, who drew criticism from congregants complaining that he neglected Riverside's long tradition of liberal Protestant activism while pouring his energies into increasing black membership. PAGE A24 
 MODERN EXPLORERS
 In 2003, the federal government sold Governors Island to the state and the city for $1, a price some compared favorably to the one Dutch settlers got it for in 1637: two ax heads, a string of beads and some iron nails. Since then, officials from two agencies have been trying to raise the island's profile, and a growing number of people have been discovering a 172-acre spot 800 yards off the tip of Manhattan. PAGE A25 
 Metropolitan Diary A25 
 SPORTS
 GIRARDI POINTS 10 FINGERS
 At Himself for Yankee Woes
 Manager Joe Girardi is more comfortable blaming himself than he is in openly dissecting how and why the Yankees fizzled in this year of the usual high expectations. He would rather say that he takes responsibility for the season, because that is easier than trying to explain why the high-profile offense was feeble, why the rookie pitchers Phil Hughes and Ian Kennedy flopped and why second baseman Robinson Cano and outfielder Melky Cabrera regressed. In fact, the uninspiring season has created questions about Girardi's performance. PAGE D7
 RUNNER-UP, ANYBODY?
 Of course there is still plenty of football left, and on any given day, any team, etc., etc. Oh, and something about one game at a time. But at least for now, before conference play fully kicks in and the potential for upsets, letdowns and surprises looms every week, No. 1 Southern California, having eviscerated the former No. 5 Ohio State, 35-3, has sent an ominous message to the rest of the college football world -- let the race for No. 2 begin. PAGE D9
 BUSINESS
 HOW A SERIES OF MISTAKES
 Took a Toll on United Shares
 The swift, sharp and short-lived collapse of United Airlines shares last Monday, when investors wiped out $1 billion of the market value of United's parent company within minutes of an erroneous news flash, was followed by a week of finger-pointing. New-media analysts say there is plenty of blame to go around. ''This is what happens when everything goes on autopilot and there are no human controls in place or those controls fail,'' said one new-media executive. PAGE C1
 TEXTBOOK DOWNLOADS
 As an option to textbook prices that can easily reach triple figures, some authors and publishers have created Internet versions that allow free or reduced price access to texts. CourseSmart, for example, allows students to subscribe to a textbook and read it online, with the option of highlighting and printing out portions of it. The price is generally half what a book costs. PAGE C3
 BIRD DELIVERS THE DIRT
 American political campaigns may be known for their dirt, but when is the last time one of them had a virtual bird dropping a load of excrement on a candidate? Last Monday, the ruling Conservative Party of Canada introduced a Web site, notaleader.ca, that did just that to Stephane Dion, the head of the opposition Liberal Party. And that was just one of the site's odd features. PAGE C3
 ELECTIONS FOR SALE
 Predicting elections by tracking the sales of assorted campaign merchandise; an Internet video site established to cover drilling issues in Texas; a State Department video contest on the meaning of democracy, with YouTube as host; and Hollywood types providing tutorials for Chinese film and television moguls on the Tao of show business. Media Talk. PAGE C4
 BIGGER, BLURRIER PICTURES
 Many hotel chains, like their guests, are replacing their old picture tube TVs with new L.C.D. or plasma flat screens. But most have not spent the money needed to add high-definition service, resulting in stretched images with lower resolution that provide a picture that looks worse than it would have on a standard picture tube set. PAGE C5
 A LEVI'S LOGO
 Harking back to the days when a TV program might be named for a single sponsor (like ''Colgate Comedy Hour''), the Levi's 501 button-fly line of jeans is joining with Logo, a network aimed at gay and lesbian viewers, for a campaign called ''Logo Unbuttoned.'' The title echoes the phrase ''Live Unbuttoned,'' the theme of a worldwide campaign for Levi's 501. PAGE C5
 An Anchor Lets Her Hair Down C1
 Well
 6 COMMON PARENTING STUMBLES,
 When Mealtime Is Upon Them
 When finicky eaters can defeat even the most resolute parent, or force one into making just anything, healthy variety can fall by the wayside. A few simple strategies help ease children into new food choices and take the edge off stubbornness at mealtime. Page H2 
 AN OLD REMEDY RE-EMERGES
 When a child exhibited signs of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, the doctor recommended an old solution: fish oil. Some doctors who practice integrative medicine have been prescribing this treatment. But with a lack of research, and controversy about abandoning established medications for a home remedy, the approach has been slow to take off. Page H2 
 EXERCISES IN SELF-POSSESSION
 Poor impulse control might be one way to describe the behavior of your average toddler. It can be hard to keep up with brains that show new changes almost daily. But scientists believe that certain cognitive exercises can help accelerate the path to self-possession and control, what researchers are calling executive function. They also believe the skills are more closely related to school success than I.Q. is. Page H4 
 GEE, DISCIPLINE'S HARD
 A survey of 2,100 parents showed that 1 in 3 believed they could not effectively discipline their children. But what is effective discipline? The confusion may come from the belief that it is primarily the meting out of punishment and consequences, but both can reinforce bad behavior. Instead, positive reinforcement when children are being good can be more effective. Page H5 
 ARTS
 Smithsonian's New Secretary
 Is Charged With a Herculean Task
 The days of Learjets and luxury hotel visits are over for the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, which was nearly run into the ground financially. Its new secretary, G. Wayne Clough, has to do more than abstain from such extravagances. He has to whip the institution's multiple museums, galleries and research centers into a tightly run machine. Page E1 
 A GUITAR WITH ROCK-STAR STATUS
 The Fender Jazzmaster was largely ignored by the people it was meant to appeal to. But it was embraced by plenty of others, including Elvis Costello, and Johnny Marr of the Smiths. A recent gig at the Knitting Factory to celebrate the instrument's 50th birthday featured the college-radio guitar heroes like Tom Verlaine of Television and J Mascis of Dinosaur Jr. Page E5 
 Editorial
 CHAIRMAN RANGEL
 Mounting embarrassment for taxpayers and Congress makes it imperative that Representative Charles Rangel step aside as chairman of the Ways and Means Committee while his ethical problems are investigated. Page A24 
 GROUND ZERO'S LINGERING VICTIMS
 Seven years after terrorist attacks destroyed the World Trade Center towers, it is clear that many workers who responded to the crisis are suffering lingering effects from breathing in toxic dust and fumes. What is less clear is how well the nation will treat those whose health problems are still emerging or yet to be seen. Page A24
 GAMBLING WITH MEDICAID
 Rhode Island is seeking a federal waiver to change much of its Medicaid program from an open-ended entitlement with no limit on spending to a capped budget with fixed expenditure limits. Prudent leaders would be wise to watch what happens before following this path. Page A24
 Op-Ed
 WILLIAM KRISTOL
 Is 2008 just a strange year, or is something big happening? Are we seeing one of America's periodic political and cultural awakenings, one of our occasional, almost-convulsive democratic reactions to what is felt to be too great a distance between the people and their ''establishments''? Page A25
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 Lehman Brothers, a major investment bank, is apparently about to go under. And Henry Paulson apparently believes that playing Russian roulette with the financial system is his best option. Page A25
 DRILL, BABY, DRILL?
 Two Op-Ed articles -- one by David S. Abraham, a former official at the Office of Management and Budget, and another by Robert Hahn of the American Enterprise Institute and Peter Passell of the Milken Institute -- discuss the economics and environmental impact of opening more federal land for oil drilling. Page A25

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); CLIMBING (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); RELIGION (73%); MOUNTAIN CLIMBING (72%); DISMISSALS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%)

PERSON: SOMCHAI WONGSAWAT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); SHANXI, CHINA (72%) CHINA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); FRANCE (92%); IRAQ (92%); KENYA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (91%); AFRICA (79%); ASIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008



388 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 215 words

 BODY:
SIGNALS ON THE ECONOMY Reports will include the New York Fed Empire State Survey for August and industrial production and capacity utilization for August (Monday); the Consumer Price Index for August (Tuesday); the second-quarter current account deficit and housing starts for August (Wednesday); leading economic indicators for August and the Philadelphia Fed manufacturing index (Thursday). 
 COMPANY EARNINGS With investments banks struggling to recover from credit-related losses, there will be much interest in earnings reports from Goldman Sachs (Tuesday) and Morgan Stanley (Wednesday).
 Other reports will come from Adobe Systems, Best Buy, Darden Restaurants and Kroger (Tuesday); CKE Restaurants and General Mills (Wednesday); and Carnival, ConAgra Foods, FedEx, Oracle and Palm (Thursday).
 IN WASHINGTON The Federal Reserve Open Market Committee will issue its decision on interest rates at 2:15 p.m. (Tuesday).
 The Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee will hold a hearing on the government's takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (Tuesday), and the House Financial Services Committee will hold its own hearing on the takeover (Thursday).
 The Food and Drug Administration will hold a public meeting about the safety of a chemical found in plastic bottles (Tuesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); RESTAURANTS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); HOUSING STARTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (57%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (71%); DARDEN RESTAURANTS INC (70%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (69%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (57%); GENERAL MILLS INC (56%); CKE RESTAURANTS INC (56%); CONAGRA FOODS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); ADBE (NASDAQ) (71%); ADB (FRA) (71%); DRI (NYSE) (70%); MS (NYSE) (57%); GIS (NYSE) (56%); CAG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (71%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (70%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (70%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (69%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (56%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (56%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (56%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (56%); NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (56%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (56%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (56%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008



389 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Save the Environment: Drill, Baby, Drill

BYLINE: By ROBERT HAHN and PETER PASSELL. 
Robert Hahn is the director of the Reg-Markets Center at the American Enterprise Institute. Peter Passell is a senior fellow at the Milken Institute.

 BODY:
THE audience's mantra at the Republican National Convention -- ''drill, baby, drill'' -- reflected deep frustration with Washington's decision to lock down tens of billions of barrels of oil under American territory in an era of $4-a-gallon gasoline. Whatever the merits of his argument, Barack Obama's response that ''drilling is a stop-gap measure, not a long-term solution'' won't make the sting go away as long as it costs $100 to fill the tank of a pickup truck. 
 The crux of the matter is how accelerated drilling would affect gas prices, now and in the long term. And the conclusions of our latest research aren't likely to please true believers on either side. We found that full-speed-ahead exploitation of the restricted oil reserves would lower prices at the pump by a few cents at most. Nonetheless, it's equally clear that the failure to develop these oil resources would cost the state and federal governments hundreds of billions of dollars in royalties and taxes. It would also, paradoxically, pass up an opportunity for a grand bipartisan bargain -- going far beyond the deal to open up some coastal drilling that Congress is expected to vote on this week -- that could preserve or restore huge swaths of wilderness that are a top priority of serious environmentalists. 
 Our projections are based on government estimates that some seven billion barrels of oil could be extracted from the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and a whopping 11 billion barrels could be had from the restricted offshore sites. That translates into an extra million barrels a day in the year 2025 -- one-sixth of the total projected domestic output. 
 A big deal, right? Not in the context of the current political debate. The markets in which oil prices are determined are global, not local, and the extra million barrels would represent less than 1 percent of total world consumption in 2025. Thus we estimate that the million daily barrels would lower the price of crude by just 1.3 percent, which few consumers would even detect against the background noise of the weekly ups and downs of fuel prices. 
 To many, that's the end of the story. Why open a fragile ecosystem to drilling if it wouldn't materially reduce Americans' fuel bills? A good answer requires a shift in perspective, from the current focus on gas prices to a more comprehensive economic framework for weighing the public and private benefits of drilling against the likely costs.
 Assuming that crude will still be selling for $100 a barrel down the road, we estimate that the oil from two new sources would be worth close to $1.85 trillion. Add to that the extra benefit to consumers of paying slightly less for imported oil and economic gains from being less vulnerable to supply disruptions, and the total benefit exceeds $2.1 trillion.
 On the other side of the ledger, the expected costs of developing all that oil, including cleaning up environmental damage, would amount to a bit less than $400 billion. So, at a first cut, the decision to drill seems an economic no-brainer.
 Why, then, the controversy? Many environmentalists argue that this calculation leaves out the biggest cost of all: the loss of the intangible benefits Americans get from knowing that the Alaskan refuge and outer continental shelf have been left untouched. Indeed, economists spend a lot of time thinking about such ''non-use values,'' if not much time agreeing on them. Still, our best attempt to get a fix on the non-use value of Arctic National Wildlife Refuge yields a figure of just $11 billion. In sum, this leaves about $1.7 trillion in tangible net benefits, so most people, one would guess, would still find the case for drilling to be compelling.
 Some people, however, attach a much, much higher non-use value to the Arctic refuge, and their opinions count a lot because they are well represented in Congress. So here's a question for them: If a big chunk of that $1.7 trillion could be spent on preserving wilderness that didn't happen to sit astride vast quantities of oil, would you really choose to spend it on keeping human hands off the currently protected sites?
 One could imagine a political bargain in which several hundred billion dollars went into a fund with a charter to preserve wilderness in the United States, or climate-stabilizing rainforests in Africa and Latin America. As little as $100 billion would go a long way: the projected cost of preserving the entire Everglades against the encroachments of the Florida economy is $11 billion, while a comprehensive restoration of 200,000 acres of Louisiana's coastal wetlands would run to $18 billion.
 For better or worse, ''drill, baby, drill'' is now widely viewed as the cure for what ails. Giving the public what it wants wouldn't lower gas prices by any meaningful amount. But it would create an opportunity to move public opinion (and huge sums of cash) in the direction of good environmentalism and good economics. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MAVLAB) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); ROYALTIES (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (70%); WILDERNESS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); WILDLIFE (68%); CONSUMPTION (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (68%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008



390 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1856 words

HEADLINE: BIDS TO HALT FINANCIAL CRISIS RESHAPE LANDSCAPE OF WALL ST.

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN; Reporting was contributed by Edmund L. Andrews, Eric Dash, Michael Barbaro, Michael J. de la Merced, Louise Story and Ben White.

 BODY:
This article was reported by Jenny Anderson, Eric Dash and Andrew Ross Sorkin and was written by Mr. Sorkin.
 In one of the most dramatic days in Wall Street's history, Merrill Lynch agreed to sell itself on Sunday to Bank of America for roughly $50 billion to avert a deepening financial crisis, while another prominent securities firm, Lehman Brothers, said it would seek bankruptcy protection and hurtled toward liquidation after it failed to find a buyer.
 The humbling moves, which reshape the landscape of American finance, mark the latest chapter in a tumultuous year in which once-proud financial institutions have been brought to their knees as a result of hundreds of billions of dollars in losses because of bad mortgage finance and real estate investments. 
 But even as the fates of Lehman and Merrill hung in the balance, another crisis loomed as the insurance giant American International Group appeared to teeter. Staggered by losses stemming from the credit crisis, A.I.G. sought a $40 billion lifeline from the Federal Reserve, without which the company may have only days to survive. 
 The stunning series of events culminated a weekend of frantic around-the-clock negotiations, as Wall Street bankers huddled in meetings at the behest of Bush administration officials to try to avoid a downward spiral in the markets stemming from a crisis of confidence.
 ''My goodness. I've been in the business 35 years, and these are the most extraordinary events I've ever seen,'' said Peter G. Peterson, co-founder of the private equity firm the Blackstone Group, who was head of Lehman in the 1970s and a secretary of commerce in the Nixon administration.
 It remains to be seen whether the sale of Merrill, which was worth more than $100 billion during the last year, and the controlled demise of Lehman will be enough to finally turn the tide in the yearlong financial crisis that has crippled Wall Street and threatened the broader economy. 
 Early Monday morning, Lehman said it would file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in New York for its holding company in what would be the largest failure of an investment bank since the collapse of Drexel Burnham Lambert 18 years ago, the Associated Press reported.
 Questions remain about how the market will react Monday, particularly to Lehman's plan to wind down its trading operations, and whether other companies, like A.I.G. and Washington Mutual, the nation's largest savings and loan, might falter.
 Indeed, in a move that echoed Wall Street's rescue of a big hedge fund a decade ago this week, 10 major banks agreed to create an emergency fund of $70 billion to $100 billion that financial institutions can use to protect themselves from the fallout of Lehman's failure. 
 The Fed, meantime, broadened the terms of its emergency loan program for Wall Street banks, a move that could ultimately put taxpayers' money at risk. 
 Though the government took control of the troubled mortgage finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac only a week ago, investors have become increasingly nervous about whether major financial institutions can recover from their losses. 
 How things play out could affect the broader economy, which has been weakening steadily as the financial crisis has deepened over the last year, with unemployment increasing as the nation's growth rate has slowed.
 What will happen to Merrill's 60,000 employees or Lehman's 25,000 employees remains unclear. Worried about the unfolding crisis and its potential impact on New York City's economy, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg canceled a trip to California to meet with Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. Instead, aides said, Mr. Bloomberg spent much of the weekend working the phones, talking to federal officials and bank executives in an effort to gauge the severity of the crisis.
 The weekend that humbled Lehman and Merrill Lynch and rewarded Bank of America, based in Charlotte, N.C., began at 6 p.m. Friday in the first of a series of emergency meetings at the Federal Reserve building in Lower Manhattan. 
 The meeting was called by Fed officials, with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. in attendance, and it included top bankers. The Treasury and Federal Reserve had already stepped in on several occasions to rescue the financial system, forcing a shotgun marriage between Bear Stearns and JPMorgan Chase this year and backstopping $29 billion worth of troubled assets -- and then agreeing to bail out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 The bankers were told that the government would not bail out Lehman and that it was up to Wall Street to solve its problems. Lehman's stock tumbled sharply last week as concerns about its financial condition grew and other firms started to pull back from doing business with it, threatening its viability.
 Without government backing, Lehman began trying to find a buyer, focusing on Barclays, the big British bank, and Bank of America. At the same time, other Wall Street executives grew more concerned about their own precarious situation. 
 The fates of Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers would not seem to be linked; Merrill has the nation's largest brokerage force and its name is known in towns across America, while Lehman's main customers are big institutions. But during the credit boom both firms piled into risky real estate and ended up severely weakened, with inadequate capital and toxic assets. 
 Knowing that investors were worried about Merrill, John A. Thain, its chief executive and an alumnus of Goldman Sachs and the New York Stock Exchange, and Kenneth D. Lewis, Bank of America's chief executive, began negotiations. One person briefed on the negotiations said Bank of America had approached Merrill earlier in the summer but Mr. Thain had rebuffed the offer. Now, prompted by the reality that a Lehman bankruptcy would ripple through Wall Street and further cripple Merrill Lynch, the two parties proceeded with discussions. 
 On Sunday morning, Mr. Thain and Mr. Lewis cemented the deal. It could not be determined if Mr. Thain would play a role in the new company, but two people briefed on the negotiations said they did not expect him to stay. Merrill's ''thundering herd'' of 17,000 brokers will be combined with Bank of America's smaller group of wealth advisers and called Merrill Lynch Wealth Management. 
 For Bank of America, which this year bought Countrywide Financial, the troubled mortgage lender, the purchase of Merrill puts it at the pinnacle of American finance, making it the biggest brokerage house and consumer banking franchise.
 Bank of America eventually pulled out of its talks with Lehman after the government refused to take responsibility for losses on some of Lehman's most troubled real-estate assets, something it agreed to do when JP Morgan Chase bought Bear Stearns to save it from a bankruptcy filing in March. 
 A leading proposal to rescue Lehman would have divided the bank into two entities, a ''good bank'' and a ''bad bank.'' Under that scenario, Barclays would have bought the parts of Lehman that have been performing well, while a group of 10 to 15 Wall Street companies would have agreed to absorb losses from the bank's troubled assets, to two people briefed on the proposal said. Taxpayer money would not have been included in such a deal, they said.
 Other Wall Street banks also balked at the deal, unhappy at facing potential losses while Bank of America or Barclays walked away with the potentially profitable part of Lehman at a cheap price.
 For Lehman, the end essentially came Sunday morning when its last potential suitor, Barclays, pulled out from a deal, saying it could not obtain a shareholder vote to approve a transaction before Monday morning, something required under London Stock Exchange listing rules, one person close to the matter said. Other people involved in the talks said the Financial Services Authority, the British securities regulator, had discouraged Barclays from pursuing a deal. Peter Truell, a spokesman for Barclays, declined to comment. Lehman's subsidiaries were expected to remain solvent while the firm liquidates its holdings, these people said. Herbert H. McDade III, Lehman's president, was at the Federal Reserve Bank in New York late Sunday, discussing terms of Lehman's fate with government officials. 
 Lehman's filing is unlikely to resemble those of other companies that seek bankruptcy protection. Because of the harsher treatment that federal bankruptcy law applies to financial-services firms, Lehman cannot hope to reorganize and survive. It was not clear whether the government would appoint a trustee to supervise Lehman's liquidation or how big the financial backstop would be.
 Lehman has retained the law firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges as its bankruptcy counsel.
 The collapse of Lehman is a devastating end for Richard S. Fuld Jr., the chief executive, who has led the bank since it emerged from American Express as a public company in 1994. Mr. Fuld, who steered Lehman through near-death experiences in the past, spent the last several days in his 31st floor office in Lehman's midtown headquarters on the phone from 6 a.m. until well past midnight trying to find save the firm, a person close to the matter said.
 A.I.G. will be the next test. Ratings agencies threatened to downgrade A.I.G.'s credit rating if it does not raise $40 billion by Monday morning, a step that would crippled the company. A.I.G. had hoped to shore itself up, in party by selling certain businesses, but potential bidders, including the private investment firms Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and TPG, withdrew at the last minute because the government refused to provide a financial guarantee for the purchase. A.I.G. rejected an offer by another investor, J. C. Flowers & Company.
 The weekend's events indicate that top officials at the Federal Reserve and the Treasury are taking a harder line on providing government support of troubled financial institutions. 
 While offering to help Wall Street organize a shotgun marriage for Lehman, both the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and Mr. Paulson had warned that they would not put taxpayer money at risk simply to prevent a Lehman collapse. 
 The message marked a major change in strategy but it remained unclear until at least Friday what would happen. ''They were faced after Bear Stearns with the problem of where to draw the line,'' said Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor who is now vice chairman of Macroeconomic Advisors, a forecasting firm. ''It became clear that this piecemeal, patchwork, case-by-case approach might not get the job done.''
 Both Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke worried that they had already gone much further than they had ever wanted, first by underwriting the takeover of Bear Stearns in March and by the far bigger bailout of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
 Outside the public eye, Fed officials had acquired much more information since March about the interconnections and cross-exposure to risk among Wall Street investment banks, hedge funds and traders in the vast market for credit-default swaps and other derivatives. In the end, both Wall Street and the Fed blinked.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left, Richard Fuld Jr. of Lehman, John Thain of Merrill Lynch and Kenneth Lewis of Bank of America. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN WOLF/ASSOCIATED PRESS
FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.A1)
Top bankers at Federal Reserve in Manhattan to discuss the fate of Lehman: Robert Wolf, chairman for the Americas at UBS, top
Peter Kraus, head of strategy and investments at Merrill Lynch, above
Vikram Pandit chief of Citigroup, center
and Steve Black, co-chief of JPMorgan's investment bank, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.A19) CHARTS: PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN SHARE PRICE: Percent change in share price for AMEX Index, Merrill Lynch, and Lehman Brothers (Source: Bloomberg) (pg.A1)
 A PROUD COMPANY FALTERS: Lehman Brothers was one of the oldest and most respected investment banks, but that history was not enough to keep it out of trouble during the mortgage crisis. (Source: Bloomberg (stock price)) (THE NEW YORK TIMES PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD (PETERSON), ROBERT M. KLEIN (LEHMAN BUILDING), NEAL BOENZI (GLUCKSMAN)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (69%); INSURANCE (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); PETERSON CO INC (66%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (51%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); BX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (51%)

PERSON: PETE PETERSON (67%); JOHN THAIN (57%); RICHARD S FULD (56%); VIKRAM PANDIT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008



391 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: A Frantic Weekend That Wall Street Won't Forget

BYLINE: By BEN WHITE and JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Fear and greed are the stuff that Wall Street is made of. But inside the great banking houses, those high temples of capitalism, fear came to the fore this weekend.
 As Lehman Brothers, one of oldest names on Wall Street, appeared to unravel on Sunday, anxiety over the bank's fate -- and over what might happen next -- gripped the nation's financial industry. By Sunday night, Merrill Lynch, under mounting pressure, had reached a deal to sell itself to Bank of America for $29 a share or about $50 billion, according to people with knowledge of the deal. 
 Dinner parties were canceled. Weekend getaways were postponed. All of Wall Street, it seemed, was on high alert. 
 In skyscrapers across Manhattan, banking executives were holed up inside their headquarters, within cocoons of soft rugs and wood-paneled walls, desperately trying to assess their company's exposure to the stricken Lehman. It was, by all accounts, a day unlike anything Wall Street had ever seen. 
 In the financial district, bond traders, anxious about how the markets would react on Monday, sought refuge in ultrasafe Treasury bills. Greenwich, Conn., that leafy realm of hedge fund millionaires and corporate chieftains, felt like a ghost town. Greenwich Avenue, which usually bustles on Sundays, was eerily quiet.
 A year into the financial crisis, few dreamed that the situation would spiral down so far, so fast. Only a week ago, the Bush administration took control of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the nation's two largest mortgage finance companies. Then, before anyone could sigh a breath of relief after that crisis, Lehman was on the brink. 
 As details of Lehman's plight began to trickle out on Sunday, the worries deepened that big financial companies might topple like dominoes. Bank of America began discussions to buy Merrill Lynch, the nation's largest brokerage. 
 ''I spent last weekend watching Fannie and Freddie die. This weekend it was Lehman,'' said one longtime Wall Street executive. 
 By late Sunday, a consortium of banks, working with government officials, announced a $70 billion pool of funds to lend to troubled financial companies. 
 The rat-a-tat-tat of bad news has frayed nerves up and down Wall Street. ''People are just weary,'' said another executive. And even more ill tidings loom. Thousands of employees at Lehman are likely to be laid off, casting them into one of the worst Wall Street job markets in years. Other banks are cutting back, too. 
 Even employees who manage to hold on are likely to make a lot less money this year. Bonuses are not only going to decrease; for many, they will evaporate completely.
 While people were stunned by the near collapse of Bear Stearns in March, they were flabbergasted that Lehman, a respected firm with a 158-year history, could be brought to its knees. Many were equally shocked by the downfall of Richard S. Fuld Jr., Lehman's chairman and chief executive. 
 ''Everyone thought Bear Stearns was a bunch of cowboys; it made sense what happened,'' said another executive. ''But this is the great Dick Fuld. This is not supposed to happen to Lehman Brothers.''
 Many Wall Street executives struggled to draw parallels to the current crisis. The collapse of the junk bond powerhouse Drexel Burnham Lambert in 1991 seems small by comparison, as does the 1998 failure of the big hedge fund Long Term Capital Management. 
 On Sunday, as the heads of major Wall Street banks huddled for a third day of emergency meetings at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, many rank-and-file employees were at work in their offices.
 ''It's all hands on deck,'' said one senior banker. 
 At hedge funds, analysts worried that investors would rush to withdraw their money. 
 As a precaution, Wall Street banks have taken the extraordinary step of hiring advisers to assess the impact of the possible bankruptcies of other big financial institutions.
 The mood could darken even further this week as several big Wall Street banks report what are expected to be grim quarterly results. 
 The problems the industry faces are myriad. Mortgage assets that both commercial and investment banks hold on their balance sheets continue to decline in value as potential buyers wait for prices to fall even further and sellers balk at prices being offered. At the same time, revenues from bread and butter Wall Street businesses like debt and equity underwriting and proprietary trading are sliding in a softening economy at home and abroad. 
 ''I have not seen a quarter like this since 2001,'' said Meredith Whitney, analyst at Oppenheimer. ''And the expense bases at the banks are still built for 2006-style revenues. So the clash of these two things is going to produce the kind of quarter we have not seen in some time.''
 Some thought that Merrill Lynch's sale of $30.6 billion worth of mortgage-related securities in July to the private equity group Lone Star for $6.7 billion (75 percent of which was provided as a loan by Merrill) would unleash a torrent of similar sales. That has not happened. 
 Big investment groups like Pacific Investment Management Company have put together ''vulture'' funds worth at least $70 billion to buy distressed assets. So far, not many sales have happened amid a buyer's strike. 
 Part of the fear gripping Wall Street is the ''who's next'' game. After the collapse of Bear Stearns it was Lehman. After Lehman, many worry about who might be next. 
 Those who bet on a rebound in financials are getting clobbered. In March, O'Shaughnessy Asset Management, a $9 billion quantitative money management group, started investing in financials and the group continues to add to its portfolio. ''We're patient and we keep buying,'' said Jim O'Shaughnessy, chairman and chief executive of the firm. 
 Mr. O'Shaughnessy created a proxy index of financials to test the performance of previous financial stock routs and recoveries dating back to 1964. The average return for the 20 worst 12 month periods was -34.96 percent. In the last year, through June 30, his proxy index was down 31 percent. 
 But Mr. O'Shaughnessy is betting on the rally. 
 In the subsequent one- and three-year periods after those drastic declines, his index rose an average 30.5 percent and an annualized 19.7 percent. ''Financials falling out of bed has happened in the past,'' he said. ''I'm interested in what happens after they crash and burn.'' 
 That strategy has not yet panned out this year. The O'Shaughnessy Dividend fund, which heavily invests in financials, is down 17.2 percent through July 30 compared with a 15.2 percent drop in the Russell 1000 value index. The three-year compounded return through July 30 is 6.5 percent, compared with 2.4 percent for the Russell 1000. 
 By contrast, hedge funds that continue to short financials (betting their prices will fall) are still performing well. Goshen Investments, a $200 million fund seeded by Tiger Management, is up 35 percent through the end of August, according to one investor. The fund has large short positions in American brokerage firms, European banks and American exchanges. Christopher Burn, founder of the fund, declined to comment. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Citigroup's Vikram Pandit leaving a meeting of top bankers on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); LAYOFFS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008



392 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LINK BY LINK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Don't Buy That Textbook, Download It Free

BYLINE: By NOAM COHEN

 BODY:
SQUINT hard, and textbook publishers can look a lot like drug makers. They both make money from doing obvious good -- healing, educating -- and they both have customers who may be willing to sacrifice their last pennies to buy what these companies are selling. 
 It is that fact that can suddenly turn the good guys into bad guys, especially when the prices they charge are compared with generic drugs or ordinary books. A final similarity, in the words of R. Preston McAfee, an economics professor at Cal Tech, is that both textbook publishers and drug makers benefit from the problem of ''moral hazards'' -- that is, the doctor who prescribes medication and the professor who requires a textbook don't have to bear the cost and thus usually don't think twice about it.
 ''The person who pays for the book, the parent or the student, doesn't choose it,'' he said. ''There is this sort of creep. It's always O.K. to add $5.'' 
 In protest of what he says are textbooks' intolerably high prices -- and the dumbing down of their content to appeal to the widest possible market -- Professor McAfee has put his introductory economics textbook online free. He says he most likely could have earned a $100,000 advance on the book had he gone the traditional publishing route, and it would have had a list price approaching $200.
 ''This market is not working very well -- except for the shareholders in the textbook publishers,'' he said. ''We have lots of knowledge, but we are not getting it out.''
 While still on the periphery of the academic world, his volume, ''Introduction to Economic Analysis,'' is being used at some colleges, including Harvard and Claremont-McKenna, a private liberal arts college in Claremont, Calif.. 
 And that, in a nutshell, is a big difference between textbook publishers and the drug makers. Sure, there have been scientists with Professor McAfee's attitude -- Jonas Salk was asked who owned the patent to the polio vaccine and scoffed: ''Could you patent the sun?'' 
 For the textbook makers, however, it is a different story. Professor McAfee allows anyone to download a Word file or PDF of his book, while also taking advantage of the growing marketplace for print on demand. 
 In true economist fashion, he has allowed two companies, Lulu and Flat World Knowledge, to sell print versions of his textbook, with Lulu charging $11 and Flat World anywhere from $19.95 to $59.95. As he said on his Web site, he is keeping the multiple options to ''further constrain their ability to engage in monopoly pricing.''
 A broader effort to publish free textbooks is called Connexions, which was the brainchild of Richard G. Baraniuk, an engineering professor at Rice University, which has received $6 million from the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation. In addition to being a repository for textbooks covering a wide range of subjects and educational levels, its ethic is taken from the digital music world, he said -- rip, burn and mash. 
 Unlike other projects that share course materials, notably OpenCourseWare at M.I.T., Connexions uses broader Creative Commons license allowing students and teachers to rewrite and edit material as long as the originator is credited. Teachers put up material, called ''modules,'' and then mix and match their work with others' to create a collection of material for students. ''We are changing textbook publishing from a pipeline to an ecosystem,'' he said.
 Like Professor McAfee, Professor Baraniuk says he decided to share his material while writing a textbook. 
 ''If I had finished my own book, I would have finished a couple years ago,'' he said. ''It would have taken five years. It would have spent five years in print and sold 2,000 copies.'' Instead, he said, he posted it on the Web site and there have been 2.8 million page views of his textbook, ''Signals and Systems,'' including a translation into Spanish.
 Connexions is strongest in statistics and electrical engineering -- areas with technologically advanced students and a greater need to update material than, say, works on medieval history. He said there were 850,000 unique users a month, with more than 50 percent of the traffic originating from outside the United States.
 ''It's anyone's guess as to when we will break through,'' he said.
 One of the most popular Connexions contributors is Sunil Kumar Singh, a production engineer from New Delhi who works for the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation of India. He explains physics for precollege students, using the feedback from readers who e-mail from all over the world. 
 ''It is a two-way process,'' he wrote in an e-mail message. ''I, for one, have experienced difficulty during my formal study years with the best of textbooks around.'' He said the new system ''gives me opportunity to respond to the editing needs all the time.''
 While these open-source projects slowly grow, the textbook publishers have entered the online publishing field with CourseSmart, a service owned by five publishers. In service for only a year, CourseSmart allows students to subscribe to a textbook and read it online, with the option of highlighting and printing out portions of it at a time. 
 The price is generally half of what a print book costs, a sum that can still appear staggering -- an introductory economics textbook costs around $90 online. (This semester, a student has the option of downloading a book as well -- but it is an either-or choice: read online or download to a computer.)
 Frank Lyman, executive vice president at CourseSmart, said that the company was created in response to changing times. ''There wasn't a lot of content and it was in a bunch of formats,'' he said of past efforts by publishers. ''There never was any momentum.''
 There are 4,000 textbooks currently available -- about a third of the market -- but the goal is to cover ''50 percent of the backpack.'' Without being specific, he said that tens of thousands of textbooks have been read online and that 1,240 separate institutions have a student who has made at least one e-textbook purchase.
 While conceding that open-source textbooks would take hold in a few subject areas, Mr. Lyman stressed that the current system would still prevail and that collaborative works online would have a hard time winning an audience.
 ''Of all the things that are changing, one thing is consistent -- the authorship model,'' he said. 
 ''What doesn't worry me is that leading experts will say I will write my own damn book and people will read it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ashley Kelly, a freshman at North Idaho College, shopped for textbooks at the start of the fall semester last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEROME A. POLLOS/COEUR D'ALENE PRESS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTBOOKS (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); BOOK PRINTING (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (55%); VACCINES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COEUR D'ALENE, ID, USA (59%) IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008



393 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Gas Prices Climb Quickly as Refineries Remain Closed

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
Oil companies were warning motorists on Sunday that they would not be able to produce adequate supplies of gasoline in the days ahead because so many of their refineries were still not operating in the aftermath of Hurricane Ike. As a result, prices at the pump began soaring again.
 Already in the last two days the average price for a gallon of gasoline has increased to nearly $3.80 from $3.68, according to AAA, a jump that has been rare since the oil price spikes of the 1970s and 1980s. Drivers throughout the South and Midwest, which depend on Gulf refineries, are reporting increases of 30 to 40 cents at some gasoline stations over the last couple of days. 
 The culprit is a combined blow from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, which have shut down almost all oil and natural gas production in the Gulf of Mexico for over two weeks and thrown a wrench into refinery operations in Texas and Louisiana.
 At least 14 Texas refineries, representing nearly a quarter of the nation's refining capacity, will probably remain shut for the next week or more. Three more Louisiana refineries may be damaged from widespread flooding.
 ''It may not be possible for us -- and other manufacturers -- to maintain normal supplies in the coming days,'' Chevron stated in a bleak assessment on its Web site on Sunday, warning of ''severe supply disruptions in the wake of Hurricane Ike.'' 
 The Energy Department said it would release more than 300,000 barrels of reserves from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to refiners, and indicated that it would help to keep supplies going to refineries that were still running. But oil companies said power outages at refineries and pipelines and at hundreds of gasoline stations around the Gulf area were going to make distribution of fuel difficult for awhile. 
 Refiners began to send crews as early as Saturday afternoon to visit refineries along the coast after Hurricane Ike passed quickly through the area. Preliminary reports indicated that the refineries in Texas did not suffer significant flooding or other damage, but company officials said they did not want to speculate about how long it would take to resume normal operations. 
 It will also take time for companies to fly over and board hundreds of oil and gas platforms on the Gulf that were jostled by Hurricane Ike's extensive wake and gusts. The United States Minerals Management Service reported that at least 10 platforms -- out of 3,800 in the Gulf -- had been destroyed. At least two oil drilling rigs broke loose from their moorings. There has been no estimate yet of any environmental damages.
 Platforms and other production facilities around the Gulf account for about 25 percent of domestic oil production and nearly 15 percent of domestic natural gas output.
 ''We don't even know when we can start the restart process, let alone how long the restart process will take,'' said Bill Day, a spokesman for Valero Energy, the country's biggest refiner. Valero has three big refineries in Houston, Port Arthur, Tex., and Texas City, Tex., that have been closed since a few days before the hurricane made landfall as a Category 2 storm Saturday morning. 
 Mr. Day said that crewmen had not found any serious structural damage at the three facilities, but there was no power for the Texas City and Port Arthur refineries because of a regional blackout. Meanwhile none of the three facilities have adequate fresh water supplies to generate steam because the storm surge pushed salt water through the region's waterways.
 Since most of the Houston refineries are clustered in a small area, are supplied by the same utilities and most are expected to face similar problems. 
 Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, said on CBS's ''Face the Nation'' on Sunday, ''We are looking at another week or eight or nine days before refineries are up and going, so refined gasoline is going to be in a shortage situation because of the power outages and flooding.''
 ''It is going to be felt for the next week that we have gasoline shortages,'' Ms. Hutchison said, ''so people need to be prepared for that.'' 
 The disruptions come as drivers were just getting used to lower gasoline prices.
 Just before Hurricane Gustav hit Louisiana on the Labor Day weekend, the national average for a gallon of unleaded regular gasoline was $3.69, more than 40 cents below the highs in July. Gasoline prices had fallen sharply until the last few days mainly because oil prices have dropped since early summer by more than $40 dollars a barrel to about $100, about the level at the beginning of the year.
 Crude prices on the New York Mercantile Exchange declined again on Sunday by more than 2 percent, to $99.70 a barrel a six-month low, as traders continued to view declining economic trends as more important than an active hurricane season. Declining oil prices mean that once the disruption subsides, gas prices could easily drop as quickly as they are now rising.
 Hurricanes Gustav and Ike are the first major challenge to Gulf oil operations since Hurricanes Katrina and Rita of 2005, which crippled more than 100 production platforms, disrupted refinery operations and sent oil and gas prices rising for weeks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An aerial view of a refinery near Port Arthur, Tex., on Sunday. At least 14 refineries in Texas are expected to be closed a week. (POOL PHOTO BY DAVID J. PHILLIP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); GAS STATIONS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (88%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (88%); MINING OUTPUT (84%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (79%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (79%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); PLANT CAPACITY (77%); POWER FAILURES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); FLOODS & FLOODING (71%); COASTAL AREAS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); WEB SITES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); MIDWEST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008



394 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: Both Sides Seeking to Be What Women Want

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
For evidence of how intensely the presidential candidates are battling over women, consider their investment in Oprah Winfrey. After the news programs, ''Oprah'' is the chief recipient of campaign advertisements this year, with Senator John McCain buying more commercial spots on the program in the last month than Senator Barack Obama -- even though Ms. Winfrey herself is backing Mr. Obama.
Mr. Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, is teaming stars from soap operas and ''Sex and the City'' with congresswomen in contested states. Mr. McCain, the Republican nominee, is sending tailored mailings on taxes to women who drive minivans, watch ''The Biggest Loser'' or ''Lost'' and know their way to the nearest big-box store.
And both campaigns are trying to highlight the issues they think will draw more support from women, with Mr. Obama emphasizing pay equity and abortion rights and Mr. McCain playing up his ''maverick'' image and raising questions of respect. 
The fierce, and complicated, competition for the female vote has been escalated by Mr. McCain's selection of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as his running mate. Even before the Palin selection, Mr. Obama was moving to shore up support from women, especially those who had supported Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in the Democratic primaries.
Now Obama campaign officials are stepping up their efforts, and both campaigns are recalibrating pitches to women to navigate cultural forces and policy positions that can give them an advantage.
In particular, they are competing for working-class white women, the group that could be especially pivotal in the states likely to decide the election.
For Mr. Obama, the push for women means emphasizing that he is running against Mr. McCain, not Ms. Palin, and drawing attention to Mr. McCain's record on issues that particularly resonate with women: his opposition to abortion rights, his votes against expanded health insurance for children and pay equity legislation, and his support for private investment accounts for Social Security, of concern among white women over 50, a group Mr. Obama has had trouble winning over.
This week, Obama events have a theme, ''Women for the Change We Need,'' as the campaign tries to connect with women in conference calls, rallies and registration drives.
The campaign will also begin increasing advertising on television programs watched by women -- besides ''Oprah,'' some of the biggest investments for the campaigns have been during ''Dr. Phil,'' ''Live With Regis and Kelly'' and ''The Ellen DeGeneres Show.''
Each campaign is also beginning to put more spots on Lifetime, and a McCain media buyer recently lamented that the Food Network did not accept political advertising.
Mr. McCain will continue to campaign this week with Ms. Palin, with a rally on Tuesday in Ohio, an important state for working-class women. The two are expected to be together frequently in the seven remaining weeks of the campaign.
Beyond that, the McCain campaign's strategy is to emphasize personality, capitalizing on the booming celebrity of Ms. Palin, highlighting Mr. McCain's story as a war hero, showcasing their families, and trying to keep alive the anger about sexism that many women felt during Mr. Obama's primary campaign against Mrs. Clinton.
Democrats have relied heavily on women in recent presidential elections -- so much so that McCain strategists say they believe that to win they need to run even among women over all, and lead among white women.
Women have voted in greater proportions than men for almost three decades -- in 2004, nearly nine million more women voted than men, 67.3 million to 58.5 million. But the hard-fought candidacy of Mrs. Clinton and Mr. McCain's selection of Ms. Palin as the first woman on a Republican presidential ticket have put new cultural and ideological elements more fully into play.
''It's because there were these women who supported Hillary Clinton, some of whom so visibly said they might not support Obama or might sit it out or vote for John McCain,'' said Susan Carroll, a senior scholar at the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers who has written extensively on the gender gap in voting. ''That really called attention to the fact that women were going to be critically important.''
Mr. McCain's strategists do not expect to win more than a small fraction of Mrs. Clinton's supporters. But they do see blocs of women they think they can win.
Democrats have been accused of taking women for granted, in part because they have been able to count on them: More women have voted Democratic in the last four presidential cycles. More men have voted Republican in all but two of the last nine, the exceptions being 1976, when Jimmy Carter was the Democratic candidate, and 1992, when Bill Clinton was elected.
But white women have voted Republican in all but two of the last nine presidential elections. In 1992, they were evenly divided between the first President Bush and Mr. Clinton; in 1996, they voted for Mr. Clinton, 48 percent to 43 percent. And while unmarried women have consistently given their majority to Democrats, married women gave President Bush the majority in 2004.
''It's about how much Democrats can maximize the gender difference and how much the Republicans can hold it down,'' Ms. Carroll said.
The McCain campaign's polling identifies two ripe demographics: So-called Wal-Mart women, who shop at the store at least once a week, earn less than $60,000 a year, have less than a college education, and hold a poor impression of Mr. Bush; they tend to call themselves independents and say their economic situation is fair or poor, listing the economy as their prime election issue. McCain strategists believe this group will be attracted by the ticket's ''maverick'' image.
The second group is women in important suburbs in Florida, Michigan, Missouri, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.
The McCain campaign is also on the offensive in trying to stoke anger about perceived sexism. The campaign has designated a squad of prominent Republican women to call out what they see as gender-based smears against Ms. Palin. Last week, it released two spots accusing Mr. Obama of being ''disrespectful'' toward her.
Mr. Obama appears to have a strong advantage among young, unmarried women. But, said Anita Dunn, a senior adviser: ''We are not ceding women with children. We have a candidate whose wife is a working mom with two young children.''
In part, the Obama campaign is emphasizing the Republican ticket's opposition to abortion rights. The campaign ran a radio advertisement during the Republican convention calling the party's platform on abortion ''extreme'' because it did not include an exception for rape or incest.
But that issue alone may not swing many women. In a Gallup poll in May, 14 percent of women said that a candidate for major office must share their view on abortion (about the same percentage as among men). For half the women in the poll, abortion was one issue among many affecting their decision.
The Obama campaign is also emphasizing Mr. McCain's opposition to pay equity legislation, with a television spot that began running on Sunday saying that he ''just doesn't get it.''
The Obama campaign's focus on women this week will start with a conference call Wednesday between 20,000 women in leadership positions nationwide and Mr. Obama's running mate, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, who the campaign believes commands respect among women, particularly because of his advocacy for laws against domestic violence. Mr. Biden and Mr. Obama will then hold rallies with women Thursday and Friday, setting up a weekend of voter registration, beauty shop canvassing and mobilizing events.
To secure working-class women, the campaign sees Mrs. Clinton as its best surrogate, and has sent her to Florida, Nevada and Ohio, states she won in the primaries. In recent days, female aides and surrogates to Mr. Obama have also begun arguing in television appearances that Mr. McCain has a history of insensitivity toward women -- recalling a joke he made about Chelsea Clinton's appearance when she was a teenager, or his going along at a South Carolina event last year when a woman used a coarse term to refer to Mrs. Clinton. (Mr. McCain now frequently lauds Mrs. Clinton.)
Though there is little question that Ms. Palin's bursting onto the scene has put pressure on the Obama campaign, it is unclear how much difference she will make. Geraldine A. Ferraro created a small bounce in the polls when Walter F. Mondale chose her as his running mate in 1984, making her the first woman on a major party ticket. But in the end, the nation went in a landslide for President Ronald Reagan.
''Ultimately in that election,'' Ms. Carroll said, ''people voted the top of the ticket.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Obama team is using Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, campaigning Sunday in Ohio, to reach working-class women. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIDGET COMMISSO-CASWELL/MORNING JOURNAL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Gov. Sarah Palin, prominent on signs at a rally in Pennsylvania last week, has affected competition for support from women. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: How Women Have Voted in Presidential Races: According to exit polls. (Sources: Exit polls conducted by The New York Times, CBS News, Voter Research and Surveys, Voter News Service and Edison/Mitofsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); WOMEN (89%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (89%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); ABORTION (68%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (55%); RETAILERS (54%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); OPRAH WINFREY (91%); SARAH PALIN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); DR PHIL MCGRAW (58%); REGIS PHILBIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



395 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Linked to Bush, McCain Faces Gore's Conundrum

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
For the last two weeks, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska has fueled Senator John McCain's surge so that most national polls show he is now running neck and neck with Senator Barack Obama in the presidential election. But for the next two months, how well Mr. McCain handles his relationship with President Bush may matter more for his election chances.
 Modern political history shows that it will not be easy. Since ratification in 1951 of the constitutional amendment barring any candidate from winning more than two presidential elections, five nominees have sought to extend their party's control of the White House for a third straight term. Four of them failed. 
 The most recent example, Vice President Al Gore in 2000, illustrates the challenge. His political circumstances diverged from Mr. McCain's in important ways. Yet Mr. Gore, too, felt compelled to distance himself from a polarizing incumbent and establish a strong independent theme against a newcomer promising change.
 ''At times it may look like a game of Twister,'' said Tad Devine, a Gore 2000 campaign adviser. His candidate fell short by 537 votes in Florida.
 Analysts in both parties consider Mr. McCain's task more difficult -- but hardly impossible.
 The Clinton Question
 President Bill Clinton represented a conundrum for Mr. Gore's 2000 campaign. He had a robust record of economic achievement, but the boom had begun to fade. He retained job approval ratings well above 50 percent, but he carried the personal disgrace of the Monica Lewinsky scandal.
 Campaign strategists differed, then and now, on the right tactics for his vice president. Mr. Gore ''should have used President Clinton all the time,'' said Matthew Dowd, a top 2000 Bush campaign official. The Clinton White House shared that view.
 The Gore campaign did not. Mr. Clinton ''had viscerally low marks with key groups of swing voters,'' said a top strategist, Carter Eskew. 
 ''I saw the same numbers,'' said Daron Shaw, one of Mr. Dowd's colleagues in the Bush campaign, who agreed the Democratic candidate needed to strike a separate path.
 Mr. Gore did so in two ways. For his running mate he tapped Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, who had blistered Mr. Clinton's personal conduct. And when Mr. Gore spoke as ''my own man'' at the Democratic convention, he promised a populist fight against ''powerful forces'' constraining Americans' economic future.
 For a while, it worked. Trailing after the Republican convention, Mr. Gore moved into an early September lead over Mr. Bush.
 But voters' attention shifted toward personal contrasts that favored the genial Texas governor over the sometimes-awkward Mr. Gore. In debates, the Democrat might have alienated more voters with impatient sighs than he attracted with policy arguments.
 ''There were not major issues driving the election,'' recalled Michael Feldman, an aide to the Gore campaign. ''That's how the campaign devolved into a conversation about who you'd like to have a beer with.''
 A Risky Strategy
 Today Americans fret about the economy, fear the country is headed in the wrong direction and strongly disapprove of the Republican incumbent's job performance. That makes Mr. McCain's challenge ''much tougher,'' said Fred Steeper, a Republican pollster.
 Mr. McCain's complicated history with Mr. Bush represents a mixed blessing. Battling to overcome conservatives' distrust in the Republican nomination race, Mr. McCain embraced White House economic policies he had earlier scorned.
 Lately, Mr. McCain, of Arizona, has kept his physical distance from Mr. Bush, who did not even attend the Republican convention. Mr. McCain underscored that distance by reaching all the way to Alaska for Ms. Palin as his running mate and joining Mr. Obama, of Illinois, in embracing the theme of ''change.'' 
 What the Republican ticket has not done, however, is break with Mr. Bush on the centerpiece issue of the economy. Ms. Palin displayed little familiarity with economic policy details in her interview last week with Charles Gibson of ABC News, but the instincts she articulated matched Mr. Bush's preference for minimizing government's role. 
 ''They have separated a bit but haven't really enunciated'' any shifts in policy, Mr. Dowd said. ''It's almost like their slogan is, 'If you want a change from us, vote for us' -- or 'We broke it, let us fix it.' ''
 Thus Mr. Obama vows to hammer away at the idea that a McCain presidency would represent a third Bush term. At the same time, Mr. McCain still has 50 days to tack toward the middle, and a running mate whose popularity on the right can provide political cover.
 Having run against Mr. Bush once before, some Democrats also warn, Mr. McCain may retain enough credibility to shift gears and try it again.
 ''The Obama campaign is making the Bush-McCain relationship the strategic focus of their entire campaign,'' Mr. Eskew said. ''This is perhaps understandable given Bush's numbers, but it is risky.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%); AL GORE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); SARAH PALIN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008



396 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: One If by Land, Billions If by Sea

BYLINE: By DAVID S. ABRAHAM. 
David S. Abraham, who oversaw offshore oil and gas revenue at the White House Office of Management and Budget from 2003 to 2005, works for a global investment bank.

 BODY:
THE House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, is to unveil specifics of a Democratic energy bill this week that would open some offshore areas to drilling -- marking a major change in her position. She will likely face opposition from the House Republican leadership, who believe her plan falls short. Only their proposal, they say, will adequately reduce fuel prices and help America become energy self-sufficient. 
 Let's hope the Republican efforts fail -- because, in fact, their plan would recklessly hand coastal states billions of federal dollars while giving them undue influence over national resource management. 
 The Republicans' offshore drilling plan, proposed by Representative John Boehner of Ohio, the minority leader, is patterned after the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006, which lifted the oil and gas drilling moratoriums for an area in the Gulf the size of New Hampshire. To ensure sufficient backing, Congress agreed to pay the nearby coastal states -- including Louisiana, Texas and Alabama -- for not opposing the offshore exploration. These payments will add up to roughly $200 million over 10 years and, after 2016, $500 million annually. In return, the states agreed, in effect, to grant the federal government the authority it already possessed to get access to federal resources on federal lands. 
 In similar fashion, Mr. Boehner's proposed American Energy Act would, over the next decade, give nearly $40 billion from oil and gas royalties and leasing activity to coastal states that support drilling. And that would be just the beginning. After 2019, the federal government would transfer to coastal states 37.5 percent of all federal revenue from offshore oil and gas activity -- at least $6 billion annually, based on current production alone. That's nearly as much as the government spends on environmental-protection programs.
 Even the White House has signaled that such a cost would be too high. In 2006, the Bush administration opposed a similar revenue-sharing plan, arguing that it would cost several hundred billion dollars over the next 60 years. 
 Although less egregious than the Republican bill, another offshore drilling proposal being circulated by Representatives John Peterson of Pennsylvania, a Republican, and Neil Abercrombie of Hawaii, a Democrat, would also allocate hundreds of billions of federal dollars to states.
 Coastal states could use these billions for any purpose whatsoever, without explanation to the federal government. In other words, non-coastal states would subsidize states that allow oil and gas exploration off their coasts. This is even though Louisiana is one of the few states with a budget surplus, thanks to the money it takes in from oil drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. 
 Coastal states argue that they need the money to compensate for the environmental damage that drilling might cause. What they fail to mention is that they already profit from the additional jobs and tax revenue that come from oil and gas drilling in federal waters. Louisiana alone has earned nearly $1 billion annually from economic activity related to energy resource development. 
 In addition, since 1953, coastal states have collected all the revenue from drilling within three nautical miles of their shores and, more recently, 27 percent of proceeds three to nine miles out. Since 1980, Louisiana alone has earned about $4 billion from this arrangement -- more than enough to pay for environmental cleanup.
 The Republican bill would also give coastal states undue authority over national resources, allowing each one to dictate federal energy policy to 49 others and create an inefficient and uncoordinated patchwork of development. 
 Despite its cost, the plan would do little to increase the supply or reduce the price of oil. Oil companies already have access to nearly 80 percent of all American offshore oil that is technically recoverable. This bill would probably open up less than half of the remaining 20 percent, amounting to approximately two-thirds of one percent of all globally recoverable resources. The Department of Energy has already stated that the effect on prices would be ''insignificant.'' 
 It seems likely that Ms. Pelosi's planwill also give states far too much control over energy policy, but she will stop short of giving them hundreds of billions of federal dollars.
 Congress must debate offshore drilling on its own merits without using resource revenue to buy votes. Representative Boehner says he is ''committed to a comprehensive energy reform policy that will boost supplies of all forms of energy.'' I wish he and his allies were interested more in prudent resource and fiscal management than in political victory. Only in the myopic world of Washington could legislators claim his plan is responsible energy policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY REGULATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL EXPLORATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); BUDGETS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ROYALTIES (74%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (78%); NANCY PELOSI (73%); NEIL ABERCROMBIE (58%); JOHN E PETERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008



397 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Sunni Imam and Proponent of Reconciliation Is Killed by Bomb at Baghdad Home

BYLINE: By SAM DAGHER

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
A Sunni Arab leader of a citizen patrol group in Baghdad who had been a proponent of reconciliation in his neighborhood was assassinated over the weekend.
 The killing of the leader, Fouad Ali Hussein al-Douri, a Sunni mosque imam who directed a group of about 65 guards in the Jihad neighborhood in western Baghdad, is the latest in a string of attacks on members of the so-called Awakening Councils. Relations between the Awakening Councils and the Shiite-led government have become increasingly strained.
 Administration of the Awakening program, which is made up of almost 100,000 mostly Sunni men countrywide on the American military payroll, is expected to be handed over to the government starting Oct. 1. 
 About 54,000 Awakening patrol members in Baghdad will start reporting to the government that day. There are serious concerns that many might be arrested for previous links to the insurgency or denied long-promised jobs in the army and the police. 
 The Awakening members, whose ranks include many former Sunni insurgents, backed by the Americans to fight militants, are often cited as a crucial factor in the improvement of security in Iraq. But they have long been viewed with deep suspicion by many Shiites in the government.
 Mr. Douri's death is a double blow, given his efforts to promote Sunni-Shiite coexistence in a section of Baghdad especially riven by sectarian killing and displacement. Ryan C. Crocker, the American ambassador, specifically mentioned Jihad in October as a place that was ''critical'' for preserving security gains in Baghdad.
 It was unclear who was responsible for Mr. Douri's death. Relatives and friends blamed the government. ''The Awakenings are being targeted by the government, Iran and Al Qaeda elements linked to Iran and other neighboring countries,'' said Nusayef Jassim Muhammad, Mr. Douri's cousin and neighbor.
 Mr. Douri was killed when a bomb concealed in shrubs was detonated as he drove his car into his driveway on Saturday night.
 At Mr. Douri's funeral on Sunday, a simple wood coffin was carried out of his home by members of the citizen patrol he commanded, as women in black wailed and slapped their faces in grief.
 Some of Mr. Douri's men, dressed in tan uniforms with patches reading ''JG,'' for Jihad Guards, fired their AK-47s skyward as the funeral procession traversed the dusty and unpaved roads of Hay al-Hussein, a section of Jihad.
 ''A curse on those who did this and burned his mother's heart with grief!'' shouted one of Mr. Douri's two wives, both of whom were at the funeral. He had eight children from the two marriages.
 An air force colonel during the government of Saddam Hussein, Mr. Douri turned to Islamic studies after the American-led invasion in 2003.
 His wish, subordinates in the Jihad Guards said, was to ensure his men got police and army jobs when the Awakening program was transferred to the government so that he could dedicate himself to completing a mosque he had started building.
 ''I do not think I am interested in a job in the police or army anymore,'' said a Jihad Guard member who gave his name as Mohammed. ''Not like before. He's gone. He was the tent that held us all together.''
 There are now about 850 citizen patrol members in Jihad and neighboring Furat, according to Khaled al-Jouhi, deputy head of a neighborhood support council set up by the American military and backed by the government. 
 Their goal is to promote reconciliation and economic revival in the area. Guards are paid a monthly salary of $300, and Jihad Guard leaders $450, by the American military.
 Mr. Jouhi, a Shiite, said Mr. Douri had been instrumental in promoting reconciliation in Jihad. Mr. Jouhi blamed extremists and Qaeda-linked militants who he said had infiltrated the neighborhood patrols for Mr. Douri's death.
 Mr. Jouhi said Mr. Douri had been warned four months ago to stop delivering Friday Prayer sermons at the Sunni Fakhri Shanshal mosque in Jihad because of his moderate views.
 Gen. David H. Petraeus, the departing commander of American forces in Iraq and a strong proponent of the Awakening Councils, distributed a final letter of thanks to the troops on Sunday in which he underscored his view that Iraq's stability remained fragile and tenuous.
 ''The progress achieved has been hard-earned,'' he wrote in the letter. ''There have been many tough days along the way, and we have suffered tragic losses. Indeed, nothing in Iraq has been anything but hard. But you have been more than equal to every task.''
 In other violence in Baghdad, two police officers were killed and six civilians wounded by a car bomb that exploded Sunday next to an ice cream shop in the Jadriya neighborhood, an Interior Ministry source said. That bombing, which coincided with the breaking of the daytime fast observed during Ramadan, was followed by a bomb attack in the Mansour district that wounded two policemen, the official said.
 In the semiautonomous Kurdistan region, two roadside bombs hit a police convoy on the outskirts of Jalawla, about 60 miles north of Baghdad, killing five policemen and wounding seven, a security source in Diyala Province said.
 Iraq's Parliament, meanwhile, embroiled itself in the recent visit of a lawmaker to Israel to attend a conference on terrorism. Parliament voted to strip the lawmaker, Mithal al-Alousi, an independent Sunni Arab, of his immunity and recommended that he be prosecuted for ''dealing with the enemy.''
 Mr. Alousi, who was repeatedly heckled, appeared defiant. He said he had pressed his argument at the conference that an Israeli military strike on Iran over its nuclear program, which the Israelis have not ruled out, would cause ''chaos and civil war'' in Iraq.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The funeral of Fouad Ali Hussein al-Douri, a citizen patrol leader killed Saturday in Baghdad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARKO GEORGIEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (95%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); RELIGION (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TERRORISM (77%); ARMED FORCES (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); AIR FORCES (69%); ARRESTS (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); MARRIAGE (62%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (99%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008



398 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; A CONVERSATION WITH NANCY C. ANDREASEN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1052 words

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA DREIFUS

 BODY:
Dr. Nancy C. Andreasen concentrates on the big questions. A neuroscientist and psychiatrist at the University of Iowa, she uses M.R.I. to ask questions like: How do the nervous systems of extremely creative people differ from those of the rest of us? How is the brain physiology of the mentally ill different from that of normal people? For nearly two decades, she has been conducting a study that tracks long-term changes in the brain. We spoke this summer when she visited New York City. An edited version of a three-hour conversation follows:
 Q. HOW DID YOU BECOME A PSYCHIATRIST? 
 A. I was an English professor in the early 1960s. I'd done a book on John Donne. Then, in 1964, I gave birth to my first child and nearly died from a postpartum infection -- the very thing that had killed millions of birthing women in the centuries before antibiotics. As I recovered, I realized I had been given back my life, and that caused me to rethink everything in it. I decided to quit literature studies and go back to school to become a doctor. 
 From the outset, I knew I wanted to do research and patient care. Because I relish complexity, I chose psychiatry -- it's more complicated than neurology. And I chose brain research because the brain is the most complicated organ in the body. I wanted to do something as important as the discovery of penicillin, the thing that had saved me.
 Q. YOU PIONEERED THE USE OF IMAGING TECHNOLOGY FOR LEARNING ABOUT THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE BRAIN. HOW DID THE IDEA OF USING CAT SCANS AND M.R.I.'S AS A RESEARCH TOOL COME TO YOU?
 A. My first patient was a schizophrenic. After working with him, I wanted to understand how this terrible disease developed, how to stop it and to find better treatments. Right away, I began searching for new tests to assay brain activities. With the technology we had at that time, you couldn't see brain differences easily. A lot of our information came from autopsies done on patients, but that was of limited use because you had nothing to compare it to.
 But then, in the early 1970s, CT scans came along. They got pictures of the inside of a living patient's brain. I recognized the potential immediately. The problem was convincing my colleagues. CT scans involved exposing patients to radiation. When I went to the human experimentation committee at my medical school, they went, ''We don't want you subjecting patients to radiation. Besides, you're not going to find anything that way, anyway.'' It took a long time to convince them.
 Q. TODAY, IMAGING STUDIES ARE ONE OF THE MAINSTAYS OF NEUROSCIENCE. WHEN DID ATTITUDES CHANGE?
 A. In the early 1980s, when magnetic resonance imaging came on line. M.R.I.'s did not expose patients to radiation, and you could see brain structures in exquisite detail. I decided to use it for a longitudinal study of brain changes over a long period of time. We're asking: Is schizophrenia a neurodegenerative disease like Alzheimer's?
 In 1989, I began to collect subjects -- some with schizophrenia and some not -- and began taking pictures of their brains. With the schizophrenics, we began seeing them at the first onset of their disease, which is usually at around age 24. We recruited about 538 people with schizophrenia. Eighteen years later, we're still following 305. 
 Q. AND WHAT HAVE YOU FOUND?
 A. I haven't published this yet. But I have spoken about it in public lectures. The big finding is that people with schizophrenia are losing brain tissue at a more rapid rate than healthy people of comparable age. Some are losing as much as 1 percent per year. That's an awful lot over an 18-year period. And then we're trying to figure out why. Another thing we've discovered is that the more drugs you've been given, the more brain tissue you lose.
 Q. WHY DO YOU THINK THIS IS HAPPENING?
 A. Well, what exactly do these drugs do? They block basal ganglia activity. The prefrontal cortex doesn't get the input it needs and is being shut down by drugs. That reduces the psychotic symptoms. It also causes the prefrontal cortex to slowly atrophy.
 If I were developing new drugs, I'd switch targets. Till now it's been chemically formulated targets. I believe we should be thinking more anatomically and asking, ''With schizophrenics, which brain regions are functioning abnormally?''
 Q. ARE YOU WORRIED YOUR FINDINGS MIGHT BE MISUSED?
 A. The reason I sat on these findings for a couple of years was that I just wanted to be absolutely sure it was true. My biggest fear is that people who need the drugs will stop taking them. 
 Q. WHAT ARE THE POLICY IMPLICATIONS OF THIS FINDING?
 A. Implication 1: that these drugs have to be used at the lowest possible dose, which often doesn't happen now. There's huge economic pressure to medicate patients very rapidly and to get them out of the hospital right away. Implication 2: we need to find other drugs that work on other systems and parts of the brain. Implication 3: whatever medications we use need to be combined with more nonmedication-oriented treatments, like cognitive or social therapies.
 Q. IN YOUR LONGITUDINAL STUDY, ARE YOU ALSO LOOKING AT HOW THE NORMAL BRAIN AGES?
 A. Yes. I've been asking, ''At what point is human brain maturation complete and at what point do our brains naturally decline and lose tissue?'' The answer is: the human brain continues to mature till about 25. At about 25, it plateaus for about 20 years, and at about 45, we start to lose brain tissue. 
 But it's interesting: we lose brain tissue, but we don't necessarily lose cognitive capacities. A lot of people at 50, 60, 70 or 80 are quite sharp. I can quantify their brain tissue and see they've lost quite a bit from what would be normal for a 45-year-old, but their cognitive abilities are not at all impaired.
 Dr. Nancy C. Andreasen concentrates on the big questions. A neuroscientist and psychiatrist at the University of Iowa, she uses M.R.I. to ask questions like: How do the nervous systems of extremely creative people differ from those of the rest of us? How is the brain physiology of the mentally ill different from that of normal people? For nearly two decades, she has been conducting a study that tracks long-term changes in the brain. We spoke this summer when she visited New York City. An edited version of a three-hour conversation follows: 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW HOLST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEUROSCIENCE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); BRAIN (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); PSYCHIATRY (90%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (89%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (89%); ANTIBIOTICS (88%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); AUTOPSIES (68%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (68%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2008



399 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Hirst's Art Auction Attracts Plenty of Bidders, Despite Financial Turmoil

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Against a backdrop of reeling financial markets and nervous investors, Sotheby's and the British artist Damien Hirst forged ahead with ''Beautiful Inside My Head Forever,'' a highly publicized auction of 223 works, all by Mr. Hirst and all made within the last two years. 
 In a gamble that could have ramifications for other artists, Mr. Hirst was bypassing his dealers -- the Gagosian Gallery, based in the United States, and White Cube, based in London -- and taking his work straight to auction with a sale that began here on Monday night and concludes on Tuesday afternoon. 
 And there were signs that the bet was paying off: the first session's total was $127.2 million, above the high estimate of $112 million. 
 ''I woke up this morning in the teeth of the gale of recession,'' Mr. Hirst's business manager, Frank Dunphy, said after the sale, ''but we came out as confident as ever.'' 
 Tobias Meyer, worldwide head of contemporary art at Sotheby's, explained the total this way: ''Damien Hirst is a global artist that can defy local economies.'' Jose Mugrabi, a New York dealer, had another take: ''Today people believe more in art than the stock market. At least it's something you can enjoy.''
 While Mr. Hirst risked flooding his own market, he had also spent several months courting potential buyers. Still, he could not anticipate the sale's timing, amid news that Lehman Brothers had filed for bankruptcy and other serious changes on the financial landscape. Sotheby's was said to be taking steps to ensure that the sale did not fall flat, like offering buyers a six-month grace period to pay for purchases.
 Jay Jopling, owner of the White Cube gallery, could be seen in the audience bidding on works (and winning at least one, ''The Triumvirate,'' which features anatomical models, for $3.1 million). Word in the auction world was that Sotheby's had given him an incentive to steer his clients to the sale. Sotheby's declined to comment on any of the financial arrangements.
 The headlines had little effect on the scene outside the salesroom here. The street was filled with television camera crews; fans hoping to spot celebrities like Bianca Jagger; and a crowd of collectors, dealers and curiosity seekers waiting for the doors to open. Inside later it was standing room only. But most of the action was on the telephone, with Sotheby's flying in employees from all over the world to handle the bidding. 
 Over the past last 11 days nearly 20,000 people have flocked to Sotheby's New Bond Street premises to see what looked like a polished retrospective. For sale were variations on all of Mr. Hirst's best-known themes: dead animals, including several sharks, a calf, a zebra and doves, all submerged in formaldehyde; glass cabinets filled with diamonds, cigarette butts and practically everything in between; and paintings and drawings with his signature skulls and dots, swirls and butterflies. 
 As part of his sales pitch, Mr. Hirst said that he would no longer be making spin or butterfly paintings and that there would be far fewer dead animals and almost no dot paintings. 
 On Monday, the evening's star was ''The Golden Calf,'' a white bullock preserved in formaldehyde, with hoofs and horns made of 18-carat gold and a gold disc crowning the head. The work was estimated at $15.8 million to $23.6 million and drew three bidders. It went for $18.6 million to a buyer on the phone. 
 A work along similar lines, ''The Black Sheep With the Golden Horn,'' had just two bidders, with the winner paying $4.7 million, in the middle of its $3.9 million to $5.9 million estimate. Three potential buyers vied for ''The Kingdom,'' another formaldehyde-preserved work, this one a tiger shark. It sold for $17.2 million, well above its high estimate of $11.8 million. 
 (Final prices include the commission paid to Sotheby's: 25 percent of the first $20,000, 20 percent of the next $20,000 to $500,000 and 12 percent of the rest. Estimates do not reflect commissions.) 
 Also in the spotlight were Mr. Hirst's glass-front cabinets, like ''Fragments of Paradise,'' filled with manufactured diamonds. After a bidding war that included Mr. Jopling, the work went for $9.3 million, well above its $2.9 million estimate. The winning bid was taken on the phone by Alina Davey, a Russian-speaking Sotheby's representative based in London. Another diamond-filled cabinet, ''Memories of/Moments With You,'' went for $4.7 million, more than twice its high estimate of $2.3 million. But ''End of the Line,'' a cabinet filled with medical supplies, sold for $2.4 million, less than its low estimate of $2.9 million. 
 Skulls were incorporated in several of the pieces. ''Beautiful Maat Intense Fetishistic Painting (With Extra Inner Beauty),'' a work with the colorful impact of his swirl canvases, featured a skull in its center. It sold for $868,127, above the high estimate of $790,000. And ''Transience Painting 2'' had a skull nestled on a leather armchair with bubbles surrounding it. Priced at a high of $1.1 million, it sold for $1.8 million to a bidder on the phone. 
 Other paintings had butterflies, as well as diamonds, scalpel blades, rosaries, crucifixes and religious medals. These included ''Sometimes Life Can Be Really, Really Dark,'' which brought $1.3 million, above the high estimate of $1.1 million. 
 Mr. Hirst also produced works that resemble stained-glass windows in churches. The round, butterfly-covered ''Rose Window, Durham Cathedral'' carried a high estimate of $1.7 million but sold for more: $2.2 million. Four bidders sought ''Calm,'' a red canvas also using butterflies to create a stained-glass effect. It sold for $1.2 million, just above its high estimate of $1.1 million. 
 Dot paintings were on offer too, in a variety of colors and sizes. ''Myristoycholine Iodide,'' a 6-foot-by-7-foot-11-inch canvas, was estimated at $990,000 to $1.3 million. But it went for $868,126, a sign that perhaps there have been too many dot paintings for sale in the past year. 
 One of his more macabre works, ''Devil Worshiper,'' a canvas with dead flies, didn't sell. And neither did ''Theology, Philosophy, Medicine, Justice,'' which featured four bullsharks floating in two tanks. 
 Mr. Dunphy said that while Mr. Hirst wasn't at Sotheby's, he was following the results via phone -- while playing snooker.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Auctioneers at work in London on Monday at the Sotheby's auction of Damien Hirst works.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BEREHULAK/GETTY IMAGES)
''The Kingdom'' by Damien Hirst sold on Monday for $17.2 million, well above its high estimate.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER MACDIARMID/GETTY IMAGES)
 The head auctioneer calling for bids on Monday, the first day of the auction in London.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BEREHULAK/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. E4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); ART COLLECTING (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%); GAGOSIAN GALLERY (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); NAICS453920 ART DEALERS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2008



400 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE ENERGY CHALLENGE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1728 words

HEADLINE: States Aim to Cut Gases By Making Polluters Pay

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER and KATE GALBRAITH

 BODY:
Ten states from Maryland to Maine are about to undertake the nation's most serious effort yet to tackle climate change, putting limits on carbon dioxide emissions from utilities and making them pay for each ton of pollutants.
The program is due to get off the ground in nine days, but already there are worries that it may fail to reduce pollution substantially in the Northeast, undermining a concept that is being watched carefully by the rest of the country, by Congress and by European regulators.
The Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, or RGGI, will cap emissions for 233 plants. By putting a price on the carbon dioxide they emit, it gives plants a financial incentive to clean themselves up, with the proceeds channeled to energy-saving and renewable energy programs in each state.
The states will set their own limits, with each issuing tradable permits, or allowances, for carbon pollution. On Sept. 25, utilities will start bidding at auction for allowances, which they can later sell -- mimicking the so-called cap-and-trade programs that effectively reduced acid rain in the 1990s. 
The concept has been praised by environmentalists and state officials. But the emissions cap was based on overestimates of carbon dioxide output, which has dropped sharply from 2005 to 2006 and is on a lower trajectory than anticipated.
So auction demand may be weak at the start, with millions of allowances the states planned to sell not immediately needed. And with the cap on emissions most likely to be higher, at least initially, than the plants' actual carbon-dioxide output, it may be many months before utilities have an incentive to cut pollution.
As traders watched the RGGI dynamic evolve, the already low price of carbon futures fell by about 40 percent in the last three months in this country, according to Evolution Markets, a brokerage firm.
''The supply of allowances is more than what the market needs,'' said Milo Sjardin, head of the North America division of New Carbon Finance, a research and analysis firm. ''Prices are not going to be high, not for the foreseeable future.'' He also noted that the market was also ''not going to produce a lot of emission reductions'' as long as the supply of allowances outstrips utilities' need.
The trading of carbon dioxide allowances exists in Europe, and in a small way in this country; some companies have taken part in trading on the Chicago Climate Exchange, which opened in 2003. But the market has been voluntary and participation largely experimental.
Because it makes participation in a pollution-capping scheme mandatory, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (known as RGGI and pronounced ''reggie'') is already spurring more trading in anticipation. Both the Chicago exchange and the New York Mercantile Exchange have recently made it possible to trade future RGGI allowances.
The trading scheme would hold carbon emissions to 188 million tons annually through 2014, and scale them back by 2.5 percent each year through 2018. The cap was set in 2004, based on analysis by energy experts and some pressure from the regulated utilities to keep the ceiling at or above the anticipated emissions. The states planned to issue allowances covering that amount. The cap takes effect Jan. 1, 2009, in New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland and all six New England states -- Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont.
Phil Giudice, the commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Energy Resources, said, ''The 188 million tons estimate was put together a number of years ago from both an analytical aspect and, not surprisingly, a political one.''
But in the end, emissions from the 10 states went down instead of up. After growing from 176.9 million tons in 2002 to 184.5 million tons in 2005, they dropped in 2006, the most recent year for which there is complete data, to 164.5 million tons. Estimated emissions for 2007 are 172.4 million tons, according to Environment Northeast, a research and policy organization.
State officials attribute the regional drop to lower demand because of mild weather, a slowing economy and utilities shifting from higher-carbon fuels to lower-carbon ones like natural gas.
As long as emissions remain below 188 million tons, however, the number of allowances will exceed the companies' need. The states have set a floor price of $1.86 per ton; allowances will not sell below that level.
If buyers do not snap everything up, leftover allowances will be rolled over to future auctions, which take place quarterly. The next auction is in December. New York, New Jersey, Delaware and New Hampshire, which will not issue allowances in the auction this month, may participate at that time. In addition to power companies, financial institutions, environmentalists and other groups can also bid.
The auction program is intended to hold pollution steady and eventually reduce it through market mechanisms.
A dirtier plant can buy additional allowances in the secondary market, but it may be expensive -- or it can just find a way to cut its pollution. Conversely, a cleaner utility can sell its unneeded allowances.
The carbon market follows a three-year-old European experiment, the first of its kind, that provoked widespread criticism, both because it provided windfall profits for industry and because it did little to control heat-trapping emissions. The question now is whether the Northeastern states can avoid those errors.
''Everyone wants to wait and see what really happens, so there will be far less liquidity right now at the first auction than what you would expect going forward,'' said Mr. Sjardin of New Carbon Finance.
Currently, allowances in Europe sell for the United States equivalent of about $38 a ton, far more than the roughly $5 a ton that carbon futures sell for here. The heavy reliance on auctions is one thing that distinguishes the RGGI program from its European predecessor. Another is the decision to dedicate the proceeds to programs that will cut carbon emissions. Each state is designating the money to meet the program's energy-efficiency mandate.
Seth L. Kaplan, a vice president of the Conservation Law Foundation, an environmental advocacy group in New England, said that if new investments were put into programs like making existing homes more weatherproof, ''the bottom-line effect will be to reduce people's bills.''
''The rates will go up a little bit but their usage will actually go down,'' he said.
Peter Iwanowicz, director of the climate change office at the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, said he expected customers' electric bills to increase less than $1 a month as a result of the new program. If consumer costs rise higher than that, it could tarnish the cap-and-trade concept just as a new Congress and a new president are considering national legislation along the same lines.
In terms of actual emissions cuts, ''it's a fairly modest first step,'' said Franz Litz, a senior fellow at the World Resources Institute, a Washington-based environmental research group. But, he added, ''It is made more unique by the fact that a bunch of states came together'' to create a regional market.
The companies involved are uncomfortable with fact that the program is regional, not national. In an e-mail message, Jim Norvelle, a spokesman for Dominion, which is based in Virginia and owns the Brayton Point Power station in Somerset, Mass., a 1,560-megawatt behemoth that gets 72 percent of its power from coal, said, ''Dominion would rather see a national greenhouse gas policy than a regional one.'' Dominion plans to participate in the coming auction.
David Byford, a spokesman for Dynegy, based in Houston, wrote in an e-mail message that a national program would put ''all regions on a competitive playing field.'' Dynegy owns five plants in the areas governed by the new initiative. Mr. Byford will not reveal whether it will participate in the auction.
This first carbon cap-and-trade program in the country, proposed by former Gov. George E. Pataki of New York, has been five years in the making. It is being watched by Californians, who are designing an even more ambitious, economywide program of regulations, and by Congress, which has considered -- and this summer rejected -- a national cap-and-trade program.
The Bush administration has steadfastly opposed any mandatory economywide cap on carbon emissions, but has no power to block the 10 states from acting.
California, which two years ago passed a law to control greenhouse-gas emissions across the economy, has joined with six other states and four Canadian provinces in a similar effort, the Western Climate Initiative. This group is still devising the details of their cap-and-trade system.
RGGI will break from the pattern of earlier cap-and-trade programs, which auctioned off only a small percentage of allowances, distributing the rest free. State officials estimated that the vast majority of allowances would be auctioned. The Northeastern states are more restrictive than Europe's carbon-trading program in the number of credits companies can buy to offset their emissions. Offsets -- like credits bought from programs that plant trees to absorb carbon dioxide, or that farm using methods that reduce emissions from the soil -- were often seen as a dubious shortcut to real emissions reductions.
Several state officials said companies had been anxious to get the auction process under way. Mr. Giudice of Massachusetts said: ''One of the worst things for industry is uncertainty. With uncertainty, risk factors go up for all kinds of capital decisions.''
Even if there are more allowances than emissions at the outset, the gap will not hamper early trading, predicted Ian Bowles, secretary of the Energy and Environment Department in Massachusetts.
Noting that the total amount of allowances can be adjusted in future years if emissions reductions fail to meet the target, he said: ''The goal of this program is to curb greenhouse gases. How we set the long-term targets or the number of permits is fundamental to whether we're accomplishing our environmental objections.''
The Energy Challenge: Articles in this series will periodically examine the ways in which the world is, and is not, moving toward a more energy-efficient, environmentally benign future. Additional articles can be found at nytimes.com /energychallenge.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Cutting Emissions: Ten Northeast states will begin a program that places a cap on carbon dioxide emissions from power plants and requires the utilities to buy tradable permits for each ton of pollutant emitted. But experts say that the emissions cap was based on exaggerated estimates of carbon dioxide output.(Sources: Environment Northeast
 New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection) Chart details line graph and map for various regions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (77%); FUTURES (75%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (75%); COMMODITIES TRADING (75%); ENERGY RESEARCH (74%); AIR POLLUTION (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ACID RAIN (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011

 
