

1 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1895 words

HEADLINE: Out of One Frying Pan, and Into Another

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
ONE afternoon in February, Ahmass Fakahany, a financier by training, was contemplating the economics of forks.
Baguette forks, to be precise -- two silver ones on a table at Osteria Morini, a redoubt of one of New York's pasta gods, the chef Michael White.
To the untrained eye, the forks looked identical. ''The difference,'' Mr. Fakahany said, reaching for one, ''is this one costs $4.50 less.''
It's not what you might expect in this refuge of Emilia-Romagna, where the talk tends more toward lumache al verde and petroniana than to the price of flatware. But then, Mr. Fakahany isn't what you might expect here, either.
After a lucrative -- and quite controversial -- career at Merrill Lynch, Mr. Fakahany, 53, is bringing a Wall Street sensibility to a business that can make investment banking seem easy by comparison: running restaurants. And, so far, he's been very, very good at it. 
In three years, he and Mr. White have a swiftly growing restaurant empire rivaling those of the celebrity chefs Mario Batali and Daniel Boulud. Mr. Fakahany and Mr. White now run acclaimed Manhattan restaurants like Marea, on Central Park South, and Ai Fiori, tucked away on the second floor of the luxurious Setai Fifth Avenue hotel. They have expanded to Hong Kong, and there is talk of Istanbul, too. This year, they hope to open at least five more restaurants, in locations as varied as the East Village of Manhattan and the Las Vegas Strip.
What is so remarkable about their success is that, in the restaurant game, failure is as common as kitchen burns. Nationwide, most new restaurants close within their first year -- industry experts put the failure rate at anywhere from 60 to 80 percent.
How have these guys done it? It helps that Mr. White is widely considered to be one of New York's hottest chefs. But it also reflects what Mr. Fakahany, the money man in this operation, is doing outside the kitchen.
Consider those forks. By switching to the cheaper ones, Mr. Fakahany said, Osteria Morini, in SoHo, would save thousands of dollars.
But that's not all. He has hired back-office staff from places like Goldman Sachs and Bain Capital to help him watch expenses. Some general managers and sommeliers receive deferred cash bonuses, a la Wall Street, in order to reduce turnover. To hold down bills for cabs, black cars and couriers, Mr. Fakahany hired his former driver at Merrill Lynch to shuttle around most everything, from clients to crates of wine.
And, because he knows that a blowout on the expense account can irk corporate bean counters, he's willing to cut executives a bit of slack. In Wall Street fashion, he is sometimes willing to do a trade -- his food and wine in exchange for something other than cash or credit. For instance, he recently turned a $4,500 dinner bill from a group of British Airways executives into nine plane tickets. He used those tickets to reward his staff at the Altamarea Group, the restaurant company that he and Mr. White run out of a SoHo loft.
Altamarea is growing so fast that some industry insiders even wonder whether it will turn out to be the Merrill Lynch of the city's restaurant scene -- a company that, like Merrill, ends up overreaching, with disastrous results.
Mr. Fakahany says that's nonsense. Since 2008, he says, Altamarea's revenue has surged roughly 250 percent a year. In 2011, the company, which is privately held, had revenue of almost $50 million, up from just $3 million in 2008, he says. Marea, its flagship, generates $50,000 to $60,000 in revenue a day, and Ai Fiori isn't far behind. As for profit, Mr. Fakahany says the company has double-digit margins, but he wouldn't elaborate.
After starting with high-end restaurants, the company is adding more mid-range restaurants, like Nicoletta, a pizzeria in the East Village that is expected to open in May.
''I am believer in what we are doing,'' he says. ''We are developing distinct brands where we can open multiple restaurants, lowering costs as we go.''
IT'S been quite a journey for Mr. Fakahany, who saw the financial crisis up close at Merrill. He was a top deputy to E. Stanley O'Neal, who was in charge during the firm's disastrous push into mortgage investments.
''I have a lot of regrets, and there are things I wish we would have done,'' Mr. Fakahany says. ''There are no heroes in the Merrill story.''
Still, Mr. Fakahany did well for himself at Merrill, where his posts included chief financial officer and co-president. Last year, he won a $1.2 million arbitration award against the firm, which is now part of Bank of America, over his compensation. Since 2004, he has sold shares in Merrill that are valued at $13.1 million, according to Insider Score, which tracks stock sales of corporate insiders.
None of those figures take into account his salary and cash bonuses -- including payouts in boom years, when Merrill seemed to be minting money as it plowed headlong into dicey mortgage investments.
Even at Merrill, Mr. Fakahany had a passion for good food. When clients and bankers complained about the food in the dining room, people looked to him to fix it.
''It was basic stuff,'' he recalls. ''You can't serve a Caesar salad followed by a vol-au-vent. We needed more fish, and we dumped the steak and lamb.''
He also built a wine collection for Merrill, mostly of wines he was buying for himself. He says he rarely paid more than $100 a bottle. Merrill board members, he says, ''were real foodies,'' so he would offer to bring the wine to board dinners that, in the boom years, were held at the grand St. Regis hotel on Fifth Avenue, and the B.Y.O.B. policy saved Merrill thousands of dollars. After Merrill collapsed into the arms of Bank of America, executives at the new owner privately criticized the wine collection as excessive. Bank of America eventually sold it.
But before all of that, Mr. Fakahany often entertained Merrill clients at Fiamma in SoHo. It was there, in 2004, that he met Mr. White, Fiamma's chef.
''I am a CNBC junkie,'' says Mr. White, 40. ''It was cool to talk to him, and I got to meet people like Stan O'Neal.''
Before long, Mr. White was asking Mr. Fakahany for business advice. One evening in late 2006, Mr. White rode a private elevator to the 32nd floor at Merrill Lynch and told Mr. Fakahany that he wanted to open a restaurant in Bernardsville, an upscale hamlet in New Jersey.
''I have 10 to 15 investors lined up,'' Mr. White told him.
''I will do it,'' Mr. Fakahany replied.
Mr. White was stunned.
''All of it,'' Mr. Fakahany continued. ''I don't like to work with other partners.''
With that, Mr. Fakahany became a restaurant investor. He put up $1.2 million to open a restaurant called Due Terre. In February, it was converted into an Osteria Morini, similar to the one in SoHo.
Not long after that investment, Mr. Fakahany personally negotiated Mr. White's contract with another restaurateur, Chris Cannon, who was looking for a chef for two Manhattan restaurants, L'Impero and Alto. Mr. Fakahany included clauses that would enable Mr. White to exit the venture early and to pursue other opportunities.
By 2007, however, things at Merrill were crashing down. That autumn, Mr. O'Neal resigned as chief executive. After Mr. O'Neal's departure, Mr. Fakahany says, he knew he was a ''dead man walking.'' He resigned, and his last day came on Feb. 1, 2008. He had a 3 p.m. appointment that day to say goodbye to Gregory J. Fleming, then Merrill's co-president.
Mr. Fakahany says he waited and waited, but that Mr. Fleming never showed up. At 6 p.m., he pulled on his blue Dior winter coat and walked home.
''And that is how my 21-year career at Merrill ended,'' Mr. Fakahany says. (Mr. Fleming, now a president of Morgan Stanley, declined to comment.)
Mr. Fakahany received job offers on Wall Street. But he, Mr. White and Mr. Cannon were soon investing in Marea, and he decided to leave Wall Street for good.
And so it went, until early 2011, when the New York food scene began whispering that the trio was headed for a breakup. That January, the Altamarea Group announced that Mr. Fakahany and Mr. White were ending their relationship with Mr. Cannon.
Mr. Cannon kept two restaurants, Alto and Convivio, both of which later closed. Altamarea got the other restaurants, including Marea, its flagship.
At the Altamarea base in SoHo, Mr. Fakahany and Mr. White work in cramped offices next to each other at the end of a long corridor. ''This is about half the size of the gym I had in my office,'' Mr. Fakahany says, referring to his Merrill days. ''Yes, I had a gym in my office.'' Staff members refer to Mr. Fakahany as King Tut, a nod to his physique and Egyptian roots.
Mr. Fakahany is still all business. He recently dropped by W. H. Linen Rental, in Clifton, N.J., to renegotiate laundry rates, including those for the Egyptian cotton tablecloths and custom-made napkins used at Marea and Ai Fiori. While spending hours watching workers run the napkins through steamers -- sometimes twice -- to flatten them out, he noticed that the machines could be running the napkins faster -- opening the door for him to save money on that item. He also negotiated a group rate for Altamarea's restaurants for the first time.
At Osteria Morini, he tried to ditch the complimentary bread, figuring it would save $1,000 a week. Customers complained, so the bread returned.
And, speaking of customers, some prominent names on Wall Street frequent Mr. Fakahany's restaurants.
Richard D. Parsons, who plans to step down this year as Citigroup chairman, likes Table 8 at Marea. The restaurant serves wine and olive oil from Mr. Parsons' vineyard in Tuscany to his guests.
Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chairman and C.E.O. of Goldman Sachs, is a regular, too. Gary D. Cohn, the No. 2 at Goldman, dined at Marea last November, the same month that Mr. Batali, of Del Posto and Babbo fame, drew ire on Wall Street for mentioning bankers and Hitler in the same breath.
Marea's general manager, Rocky Cirino, jumped at the chance to have a little fun at the Batali empire's expense.
''Today is banker appreciation day,'' Mr. Cirino wrote on Mr. Cohn's check. He reduced the bill to one cent.
And when John A. Thain, who succeeded Mr. O'Neal as Merrill's C.E.O., called for a reservation, the staff promptly called Mr. Fakahany to ask if he should get a table. (Mr. Thain got one.)
WHETHER Mr. Fakahany and Mr. White can maintain their breakneck pace is anyone's guess. Others have made the jump from Wall Street to the restaurant business, and, while they profess to love the food business, they agree that it can be grueling.
''Running restaurants is harder than trading high-yield bonds,'' says Sean Largotta, a former Lehman Brothers trader who is now a co-owner of a number of successful Manhattan restaurants, including the Lion in Greenwich Village and Crown on the Upper East Side.
Over at Marea, Mr. Cirino, the general manager, says he admires Mr. Fakahany's focus on costs. But sometimes, old Wall Street habits -- including a penchant for expensive luxuries -- are hard to break.
When Marea opened, for instance, Mr. Fakahany ordered umbrellas embossed with Marea's name for $7.50 a piece. They were gone within weeks. Another time, Mr. Cirino recalls, Mr. Fakahany took a dislike to the ties that the wait staff were wearing, so he went out and bought 25 Ferragamo ties, at $125 apiece.
''That was so Wall Street -- and it was just crazy,'' Mr. Cirino says.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ahmass Fakahany, left, a former Merrill Lynch co-president, with the chef Michael White at Marea on Central Park South. The two men have joined forces in a swiftly growing restaurant empire. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU1)
Marea, top, is the flagship of the Altamarea Group, run by Ahmass Fakahany and Michael White. The restaurant generates $50,000 to $60,000 in revenue a day. Altamarea is growing so fast that some in the industry wonder if it might overreach. But Mr. Fakahany, above center, says, ''I am believer in what we are doing.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The bar area at Ai Fiori, above, and a dessert at Osteria Morini, right, two restaurants in the Altamarea family. The company has expanded to Hong Kong, and this year hopes to open at least five more restaurants. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DREW ANTHONY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (68%); CELEBRITIES (66%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (66%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (51%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



2 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: For Occupy Movement, a Challenge to Recapture Momentum

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT; Erik Eckholm contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Six months after the Occupy movement first used protests and encampments to turn the nation's attention to economic inequality, the movement needs to find new ways to gain attention or it will most likely fade to the edges of the political discourse, according to supporters and critics.
''They have fewer people, and it's not a new story anymore that there were people protesting in the streets or sleeping in parks,'' said Neera Tanden, the president of the Center for American Progress, a liberal organization that has strong ties to top Democrats and has encouraged the protests. ''They need to think of new ways to garner attention and connect with people around the country.'' 
Driven off the streets by local law enforcement officials, who have evicted protesters from their encampments and arrested thousands, the movement has seen a steep decline in visibility. That has left Occupy without bases of operations in the heart of many cities and has forced protesters to spend time defending themselves in court, deterring many from taking to the streets again.
In Oakland, Calif., which at one point last year appeared to be one of Occupy's strongholds, activists have had less than a handful of marches this year and no longer have any encampments in the city, according to a police official there. In New York, where the police evicted protesters from Zuccotti Park in November, the few protests in the past few weeks have been smaller than the ones last year, the police said.
With less visibility, the movement has received less attention from the news media, taking away a national platform.
Occupy does not have a traditional leadership structure, making it difficult for the movement to engage in conventional political organizing in support of state legislators and members of Congress, like the Tea Party has. And some activists, angry at politicians across the board, do not see electoral politics as the best avenue for the movement, complicating efforts to chart its direction.
Occupy activists acknowledge that building and maintaining a populist movement is daunting and that the clashes over the right to protest have drained some energy.
Bill Csapo, a 58-year-old member of Occupy Wall Street, the New York branch of the movement, answered the phone number listed on its Web site and offered his take on the group's standing.
''Are we a little scarred? Of course,'' he said.
He added: ''The people who were driven out of Zuccotti Park in November haven't gone anywhere and are still working. All the original committed people are still here. This is not a game -- we are trying to save our civilization.''
Brian Grimes, a member of the movement who has been spending his days at McPherson Square in Washington, where the police still allow sit-ins and tents, acknowledged that the group needed to adapt its tactics to remain relevant.
''Like you'll find in anything, you can't stick to the same thing,'' said Mr. Grimes, 35, of Montgomery County, Md. ''Whether it's education, health care or protests, you cannot be static, and you have to change your tactics.''
Mr. Grimes said that new ways of gaining attention could come in the form of flash mobs or banner drops from buildings, like the ones used by protesters in Europe.
''We need to keep them guessing,'' he said, referring to the news media and the police.
The movement's staying power will depend on the success of several events planned for the coming weeks. Despite recent actions that have fizzled, including an Occupy Corporations day in February, organizers are planning a strike and demonstrations on May 1, International Labor Day. But the response has been mixed, and activists now say that Americans could show sympathy for the cause in other ways, like not shopping that day.
Chris Longenecker, 24, a member of the group who is helping to organize the strike and protests in May, said the lull in attention over the past few months was due to the group's focus on building up capacity for larger events.
''We are looking to late spring and summer,'' he said. ''We are reconnecting with our passive supporters who saw us lay more dormant in the winter. We have spent the vast majority of the winter laying roots across community organizations and labor and immigration.''
Whether Occupy has a resurgence, it has already had a significant influence on American politics, making economic inequality -- and specifically the top ''1 percent'' -- a major issue in the national dialogue.
In December, 48 percent of Americans said they agreed with the concerns raised by Occupy, although only 29 percent approved of the way the protests were being conducted, according to a poll by the Pew Research Center.
After that poll, Pew stopped surveying specifically about the movement. ''The movement was not in the news as much coming into 2012, and the nation's focus and our polling turned to the Republican primary,'' said Michael Dimock, an associate director of research at Pew.
News coverage of Occupy has fallen off significantly since late last year, according to an analysis by the Project for Excellence in Journalism.
In October, coverage of Occupy made up 6 percent of the news generated by news organizations in the United States. That number climbed to 14 percent in the middle of November and then slid to 1 percent in December. The number remained below 1 percent in January and February and has been so small this month that the Project for Excellence in Journalism said it was equivalent to no coverage.
Although the coverage has fallen off, concerns about economic opportunity and equality are at the highest levels since the mid-1990s.
In a poll released by Pew on March 2, 19 percent of Americans agreed with the statement that ''success in life is pretty much determined by forces outside of our control,'' the highest number since 1994.
What is more, 40 percent of Americans -- also the highest number since 1994 -- agreed with the statement that ''hard work and determination are no guarantee of success for most people.''
Ms. Tanden, of the Center for American Progress, said that even if the Occupy movement did not regain significant visibility, it would continue to have an impact on the presidential election, having forced even Republicans to begin talking about inequality.
''It wasn't Democrats who said that Mitt Romney was a 'vulture capitalist,' it was Rick Perry,'' she said, referring to the Texas governor and former Republican presidential candidate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, a protester being arrested last weekend at a march in New York. Right, Occupy activists gathered in Northampton, Mass., during a stop on a bus tour this year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (77%); POLICE FORCES (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); WEB SITES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



3 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
IN RIO DE JANEIRO,
A CAR CRASH IGNITES DEBATE
At least 391 people were run over by cars in the last five years in Rio de Janeiro, a police spokeswoman said. But the crash that killed Wanderson Pereira dos Santos has awakened a debate over wealth, influence and traffic deaths. Page 6
A U.S. HERO IN AFGHANISTAN
Bad news travels at the speed of light through the rugged redoubts of Afghanistan, but good news sometimes seems to be on the back of a lame mule. Specialist Dennis Weichel of the United States Army was killed while rescuing an Afghan child, but more than a week later, the United States military has yet to officially confirm what happened. Page 11 
MEXICO LOOKS AT CONTENDERS
Mexico's presidential campaign has begun, and the cynicism seeping from common descriptions of the three main candidates reflects what experts say are low expectations. Mexican voters, several polls show, have lost faith in democracy at a moment when their nation is teetering between modern success and violent failure. Politcal Memo. Page 10
FIGHTING ERUPTS IN MALI
Heavy weapons fire broke out as Tuareg and Islamist rebels entered Gao, the main city of northeast Mali still under army control, local officials and witnesses said. Page 11
Obituaries
ROGER C. MOLANDER, 71
He abandoned what he called the ''priesthood'' of cold warriors in the White House and the Pentagon to organize one of the nation's largest and most colorful protests against nuclear arms. Page 22
EDSON W. SPENCER, 85
As chief executive of Honeywell, he shifted the company into aeronautics and industrial controls. Page 22
National
A PUSH FOR A SINGLE REGISTRY
TO OVERSEE TRANSPLANTS
Leaders in the field of kidney transplantation recommended that a single nationwide registry should oversee the complex matching process needed to expand the use of transplant chains and other forms of paired donation. Page 18
TALK OF A GIFFORDS COMEBACK
At the urging of her most fervent supporters and top advisers, Gabrielle Giffords appears to be holding on to much of the nearly $1 million left in her campaign account, in order to leave the door open for a potential run for the House or Senate in the next campaign cycle. Page 16
OCCUPIERS' NEXT CHALLENGE
Six months after the Occupy movement first used protests and encampments to turn the nation's attention to economic inequality, the movement needs to find new ways to gain attention or it will most likely fade to the edges of the political discourse, supporters and critics say. Page 19
New York
ORDINARY NEW YORKERS
PUT IN THEIR 2 CENTS
The Park Slope Armory Y.M.C.A. was packed with people involved in participatory budgeting, in which constituents in four City Council districts were given control over a slice of their council members' discretionary budgets. This is only the second time that participatory budgeting has been tried in the United States, and the first time in New York City. Page 25
THE GHOSTS OF POETS PAST
Billed as an East Village poetry walk, the project ''Passing Stranger'' is a site-specific audio tour that guides listeners through the history of the neighborhood's interconnected writers and shakers, with interviews, archival recordings and recitations of poems. Page 24
Sports
ON THE EVE OF THE MASTERS
LOOKING BACK ON WOODS
After three years of standing in place in his pursuit of Jack Nicklaus's record 18 major victories, Tiger Woods suddenly has a strong wind at his back. He comes into the Masters, fresh off his first official PGA tour victory in two and a half years, while facing questions on the future of his game. Page 1
A SIGNATURE HOBBY'S QUIRKS
If you wanted to buy an official Rawlings baseball from MLB.com, it would cost $16.99. But if you were willing to let Hayden Penn write his name on it first, the same ball could be had for $5. Welcome to the strange and wonderful world of MLB Auctions. Page 6
AN EXECUTIVE'S CROSSROADS
For more than a decade, Greg Shaheen has emerged as an indispensable force behind the N.C.A.A. tournament. But this could be his final time running the event. The N.C.A.A. and one of its most popular executives find themselves at a crossroads. Page 3
BAYLOR COACH HAS FIRE
Coach Kim Mulkey is the only woman to win an N.C.A.A. basketball championship as a player, an assistant and a head coach. Before Baylor left Waco, Tex., for the women's Final Four, Mulkey announced that she had Bell's palsy. While her smile might droop, Mulkey told reporters, her case was not severe and ''it's not going to keep me from hollering.'' Page 4
50 YEARS FOR METS AND FANS
A 50th anniversary is a great time to remember why you fell in love in the first place -- the rush of joy, then the recognition that, over the long run, nobody is perfect. This is not about marriage but about a different kind of love -- between the Mets and their fans, who badly need a renewal of their vows to love, honor, cherish. And root, against all odds, George Vecsey writes. Page 9
Sunday Business
PROPOSING AN AGENCY
TO PROTECT INVESTORS
Two professors are proposing a Wall Street version of the Food and Drug Administration -- an agency that would examine new financial instruments and ensure that they were safe and benefited society, not just bankers. Fair Game, Gretchen Morgenson. Page 1
COMPUTERS FOR NONEXPERTS
Many professors of computer science say college graduates in every major should understand software fundamentals. They do not argue that everyone needs to be a skilled programmer, but they disagree on the core components. Digital Domain, Randall Stross. Page 5
Automobiles
A ICON OF SEX AND POWER
HAS ITS 50TH BIRTHDAY
Fifty years have passed since the first Shelby A.C. Cobra, CSX2000, landed, heralding the emergence of an automotive sex symbol and a racetrack legend from a modest display stand at the New York auto show. Sports, Page 13
Arts & Leisure
THE SINGULAR INFLUENCE
OF NICKI MINAJ
Barely a year and a half has passed since Nicki Minaj's ''Pink Friday'' went platinum. When she releases her second album, ''Pink Friday: Roman Reloaded,'' this week, it will be as one of the most influential female rappers of all time. Page 1
Magazine
PLAYING A GAME OF CHICKEN
ON THE SUBJECT OF DEBT
After months of self-serving narratives and accusations, a full accounting of how a historic debt deal went bad. Page 22
Book Review
A DEBUT NOVEL
IN A FUTURE IRELAND
Kevin Barry's first novel, ''City of Bohane,'' which takes place somewhere in Ireland in 2053, is an extraordinary work full of marvels, writes Pete Hamill. Savage brutality exists within its pages but so do laughter, humanity and the abiding ache of tragedy. Page 1
Style
MORE ASIAN-AMERICANS
MARRY WITHIN THEIR RACE
Interracial marriage rates are at an all-time high in the United States, but Asian-Americans are bucking that trend, increasingly choosing their soul mates from among their own racial group. Page 1
Editorial
THE ROBERTS COURT
DEFINES ITSELF
Will the Supreme Court's ruling in the health care case expunge judicial restraint from legal conservatism? Sunday Review, Page 12
THE WEEK AHEAD
Who's the bully in Wisconsin? Sunday Review, Page 12
Op-Ed
ROSS DOUTHAT
Health care reform passed because it hid the costs and co-opted critics. Sunday Review, Page 9
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
A fascinating new book about why nations fail explains who's up and who's down. Sunday Review, Page 13
PUBLIC EDITOR
Readers weigh in on The Times's coverage of Iran and the paper's placement of a sensitive article on Mitt Romney. Sunday Review, Page 9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); TESTIMONY (73%); FIRES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (68%); RELIGION (68%); CITIES (66%); BUDGETS (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%)

PERSON: GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (94%) BRAZIL (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MALI (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



4 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Chaos Under Heaven

BYLINE: By GORDON G. CHANG. 
Gordon G. Chang is a columnist at Forbes.com and the author of ''The Coming Collapse of China.''

 BODY:
AUTUMN IN THE HEAVENLY KINGDOM
China, the West, and the Epic Story of the Taiping Civil War
By Stephen R. Platt
Illustrated. 470 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $30.
By the time Qing imperial forces caught and dismembered Hong Rengan in late 1864, an estimated 20 million to 70 million people had perished in the turmoil of the Taiping rebellion. Hong, once a bookish assistant to European preachers, ended up the ''prime minister'' of a Chinese movement that almost deposed the Qing dynasty of the Manchus, who had conquered China more than two centuries earlier.
Hong, also known as ''the Shield King'' to the multitude of Taiping rebels, was the younger cousin of Hong Xiuquan, an unpromising character who had failed imperial exams four times. In 1837, the elder Hong had, over the course of 40 days, been gripped by visions in which he ascended to a ''beautiful and luminous place'' where he was given a sword to kill demons. Six years later, after reading a tract on Christianity, Hong realized that the place he had visited in his dreams was heaven, that the Bible was explicitly written for him and that he was in fact the younger brother of Jesus Christ. 
Soon, he converted his cousin Hong Rengan, established the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom and plunged his country into a war of liberation from foreign rulers. In ''Autumn in the Heavenly Kingdom,'' Stephen R. Platt describes the conflict that began in 1851 as an uprising, a rebellion and ''simply a descent into anarchy.'' It was, in all probability, the bloodiest civil war in history.
Hong Xiuquan, the unsuccessful exam-taker, was from a Hakka minority community and an unlikely leader, but China in the middle of the 19th century was in ferment. For one thing, the Manchus, once fierce warriors on horseback, had grown too used to the sedentary ways of the Chinese they had conquered. When Hong mounted his challenge, the young emperor, Xianfeng, was living a life of debauchery in the magnificent Summer Palace instead of working with his ministers in the center of the Chinese capital.
And for many Chinese, Xianfeng was also a hated foreigner, so it is not surprising that Hong Xiuquan's fast-/growing brand of Christianity soon turned political, in other words, anti-Manchu. And destructive as well. For almost 14 years, two /forces skirmished and battled and laid siege to each other's fortresses and cities, with most of the fighting along the country's longest river, the Yangtze, China's ''serpent.'' ''The glow of the fires illuminates the sky,'' exclaimed one Chinese observer near Shanghai in the spring of 1860, ''and the cries of the people shake the earth.'' As Platt, a historian at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, observes, the conflict ended not by surrender but through annihilation.
After destroying its enemy, the tottering Qing dynasty lasted for almost five decades, until another uprising, again led by Chinese nationalists, would bring an end to two millenniums of imperial rule. In one sense, the earlier challenge to the Manchus never ended. The leader of the 1911 revolution was Sun Yat-sen, a Christian doctor inspired by tales of the Taiping and known to his friends as ''Hong Xiuquan.''
Platt's fine work is not a comprehensive history. Instead, it is, as he writes, an attempt to relay what it was like to live through the tumultuous events. He does this by concentrating on a handful of central figures, especially the Shield King, Hong Rengan, and the commander of the Qing dynasty's armies, Zeng Guofan, a Confucian scholar turned general. Platt also devotes pages to colorful foreigners who affected the outcome, especially the British Bruce brothers, one of whom led troops that ransacked the Qing Summer Palace while the other helped save the failing dynasty. A wily American soldier of fortune, Frederick Townsend Ward, is another of the book's major characters.
The emphasis on individuals permits Platt to give us an engaging narrative, which begins with Hong Rengan's perilous escape to Hong Kong in 1852, but he has written more than just a history of personalities. ''Autumn in the Heavenly Kingdom'' hints at broad themes, putting the Taiping upheaval in the context of events outside the sprawling Qing empire. ''Europe had been through its own upheavals just five years earlier with the revolutions of 1848,'' Platt writes, ''and the events in China seemed a remarkable parallel: the downtrodden people of China, oppressed by their Manchu overlords, had, it seemed, risen up to demand satisfaction.''
This is the beginning of an explanation for why the rebellion spread remarkably fast. Karl Marx, then writing for The New-York Daily Tribune, attributed the rebels' quick advances to globalization, namely, Britain's forcing the opening of China to trade after the First Opium War, which ended in 1842. Dissolution of the imperial order, Marx said, ''must follow as surely as that of any mummy carefully preserved in a hermetically sealed coffin, whenever it is brought into contact with the open air.''
Platt suggests that Marx was right and that the Taiping rebellion was aided by the links tying China to an international industrial economy. Qing China was not as closed as historians have made it appear, he notes. Globalization was already at work destabilizing the country.
The British and French, for instance, were conducting military campaigns against the Qing to further open the empire to trade, and though they did not intend to support the Taiping, their actions in late 1860 -- at the height of the uprising -- nonetheless inspired the Chinese rebels. After all, the Europeans were able to force the young Manchu emperor from his capital, Peking, with a relatively small force.
Eventually, however, Britain threw its full support to the Qing, after deciding that the commercial advantage lay with them rather than with the rebel Taiping. In what is perhaps the most suggestive passage in the book, Platt persuasively argues that the civil war was an international affair because both sides were ''so intractably balanced that the final outcome was to a large degree determined by the diplomatic and military interventions of outsiders in the early 1860s.''
The tragedy is that the British government probably chose the wrong side. The Taiping were not, as The Times of London wrote in May 1862, ''the Thug of China, the desolator of cities, the provider of human carrion to the wild dogs, the pitiless exterminator, the useless butcher.'' The rebels were modernizers, and Hong Rengan was perhaps the first in his country to set forth, ''in a Chinese context, a vision of the country as a modern industrial power.'' As Platt demonstrates, the Taiping were in favor of international commerce, unlike the Manchus, who resisted contact with others.
Of course, we will never know whether Hong Rengan and his cousin would have ruled better than the debauched Qing, but China today is, as in the pre-Taiping era, volatile, plagued by widespread protests, strikes and insurrections (and, as then, the instability follows a period of intense globalization). Unfortunately, the country has not yet broken what one Western commentator in the mid-1850s called ''a natural cycle'' of rebellion.
Perhaps instability is ingrained in China's political culture, but a century and a half ago there seemed to be a moment when the Chinese might have changed that pattern. As Platt notes, the Taiping movement came close to overwhelming traditional ways and bringing China into the modern world.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH FROM HISTORICAL PICTURE ARCHIVE/CORBIS (THE BATTLE BEFORE TONG-CHEOU, CIRCA 1860)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); HISTORY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); RIVERS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (65%); YANGTZE RIVER (58%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (65%)

TITLE: Autumn In the Heavenly Kingdom: China, the West, and the Epic Story of the Taiping Civil War (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



5 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; INDIA'S WAY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2026 words

HEADLINE: India's Industry Helps Open Door to World

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY; Nikhila Gill contributed research from New Delhi.

 BODY:
LAHORE, Pakistan -- On the day the Indian trade delegation came across the border, Pakistan was having another political crisis. The prime minister was embroiled in a showdown with the country's Supreme Court. Early elections were rumored. And Islamists had just staged a rally in Karachi to protest ''foreign intervention'' on Pakistani soil.
Not, perhaps, the perfect moment to hammer out closer trade ties.
Yet Rajiv Kumar, a leader of the Indian delegation, was pleased. It was mid-February, and his business group was staging the first Indian trade show ever held in Pakistan. Tens of thousands of visitors would attend during three days. And Indian and Pakistani business leaders, as well as both countries' commerce ministers, swapped cards, sipped tea and feasted at lavish banquets. 
''Look at this!'' Mr. Kumar exclaimed as his car rolled up to the convention center here in Lahore, where crowds were thronging for the trade show. ''My God! Quite good, I'd say.''
One truism about the tortured relationship between India and Pakistan is that there is never a perfect moment. For six decades, through three wars and one nuclear standoff, diplomats have tried, and failed, to improve relations. Now, the private sector is giving it a shot. Trade has become the most promising opening in the latest round of diplomacy, as progress remains largely stalled on tough issues like terrorism, water rights and the status of Kashmir.
The foray into Pakistan is further proof of the increasingly important role of India's private sector in foreign policy. India's leaders, eager for a bigger footprint in global affairs, now aspire to a permanent seat on an expanded United Nations Security Council. But the Indian Foreign Service, though consisting of top-notch officers, is too understaffed to provide a comprehensive global presence.
To compensate, the government often relies on the private sector to serve as an intermediary abroad. India's two leading business groups -- C.I.I. (the Confederation of Indian Industry) and Ficci (the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry) -- now have offices around the world and sponsor informal diplomatic dialogues between India and countries like Japan, China, Singapore and the United States.
As India's growing economy demands more natural resources, its business leaders have led the country on an aggressive push into Africa and South America. Last year, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh toured Africa, pledging aid and good will in a high-level trip encouraged by an Indian private sector competing with China for resources on the African continent.
''These are places that are incredibly important to India, but the Indian state doesn't have the resources to maintain a major presence,'' said Ashley J. Tellis, a former American diplomat who served in India. ''Business has really become the de facto substitute for Indian diplomatic engagement. And that works out nicely for India.''
India, a nation of 1.2 billion people, has about 800 diplomats serving in 162 missions and posts around the world. The United States, by comparison, has a diplomatic corps of more than 11,000. Even tiny Singapore surpasses India, with 847 foreign service officers.
In a background interview last year, a senior Indian official agreed that the country's diplomatic corps was far too small to adequately represent India's global interests. An expansion and hiring program is under way, but the process remains tediously slow; as a result, India's Ministry of External Affairs is often forced to borrow bureaucrats from other ministries. Or, the senior official said, the ministry sometimes leans on the private sector.
''The presence of Indian corporations, both public and private, does help to expand our presence,'' the official said. ''Our footprint will also expand through the private sector.''
Cautious Optimism
Mr. Kumar last visited Lahore in November 2008, at a moment of cautious optimism. Trained as an economist, Mr. Kumar, who was then leading an Indian research group, met with members of a Pakistani research group to discuss their nations' relationship amid speculation that Mr. Singh, the Indian prime minister, would soon make a historic visit to Pakistan.
Less than two weeks later, militants trained in Pakistan assaulted Mumbai in an audacious and vicious terrorist attack, killing at least 163 people and enraging the Indian public. Any chance of a diplomatic breakthrough was shattered as diplomats worked to avert a military confrontation.
By 2010, Mr. Kumar had joined Ficci, the Indian business group, with an agenda of expanding the group's influence in India's neighborhood and creating a fluid and interconnected South Asian market. He began traveling to Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Nepal, where the prime minister and other top leaders received him.
''More and more, economics and commerce are seen as the primary drivers of international relations, which they were not in South Asia until very recently,'' said Mr. Kumar, who is now Ficci's secretary general.
To a large degree, Mr. Kumar has been playing catch-up. For more than a decade, the other major Indian business group, C.I.I., has operated as one of the most influential interlocutors of Indian foreign policy, helping to facilitate closer Indian ties with Japan, Singapore and, most important, the United States.
In 2001, C.I.I. partnered with the United States-based Aspen Institute to sponsor a meeting between Indian and American ''thought'' leaders in the Indian city of Udaipur. The United States and India, after decades of frosty relations, had suddenly warmed up to each other, especially after a visit to India by Bill Clinton. But neither side knew how to move forward.
The Udaipur meeting brought together Henry A. Kissinger, the former national security adviser Brent Scowcroft, the Harvard scholar Joseph S. Nye Jr. and others on the American side to meet with an Indian delegation that included the industrialist Ratan N. Tata and the influential diplomat Naresh Chandra.
''We started talking about defense, about energy,'' recalled Tarun Das, the former head of the C.I.I. ''We started talking about H.I.V./AIDS. The dialogue went into: 'What else can we do? How can we build trust between the two countries?' There was only mistrust after 50 years.''
Since then, the C.I.I. has sponsored 14 more exchanges in a United States-India relationship that, if still fractious at times, is fundamentally changed. The two countries are now strategic partners, with growing cooperation on defense issues where one had not existed before. Today, India buys American military hardware and participates in joint exercises with the United States.
The most dramatic concept borne of that initial meeting between the two countries involved cooperation on nuclear energy, in what eventually became the landmark United States-India Civil Nuclear Agreement. The deal was criticized in both countries, but it was eventually approved, if still not fully carried out.
In 2008, when the United States Congress threatened to vote down the measure, India's government got lobbying support from its most potent ally: the Indian private sector, which included Indian-Americans who had prospered in business, science and technology in the United States and had developed one of the most influential lobbies in Washington.
Ashok Malik, a journalist who was one of the writers of an academic analysis of India's private sector diplomacy, said the influence of Indian business is evident beyond the changed relationship with the United States. In 2005, President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela was greeted with a big reception in New Delhi at a time when Indian leftists were part of the coalition government. Two years later, with the leftists no longer in the coalition, India's president skipped Venezuela on a tour of South America, instead stopping in Chile and Argentina, where Indian corporations had business interests.
Mr. Malik said Indian diplomats were now trained to consider business development as a primary part of their job. ''Before, commerce was beneath public policy,'' he said. ''Now they are talking individual deals.''
Business has also become a primary conduit for increasing India's footprint in East Asia, China's backyard. Singapore, Japan, Taiwan and Australia have each increased business ties, partly as a strategy to draw closer diplomatically to India and possibly nurture a counterbalance to China. At the same time, the C.I.I. is quietly sponsoring yet another dialogue, this time with China itself.
''We are slowly trying to see if there can be some building of trust with China,'' Mr. Das said in an interview last year. ''It is much more difficult than with the Americans.''
At the convention center in Lahore in February, Pakistani soldiers were posted everywhere, assault rifles in full view as they awaited the arrival of Indian delegation. Mr. Kumar had come two days early, to open the trade booths, but now the Indian commerce minister, Anand Sharma, was arriving with his Pakistani counterpart, as well as the Indian trade delegation. Security was a concern.
A careful reconciliation between India and Pakistan has been under way since July 2011, eight months after the Mumbai attacks, with efforts being made on both sides of the border. Mr. Sharma's visit was a significant gesture: he was the first Indian commerce minister ever to make an official visit to Pakistan, though few people expected any breakthroughs.
''I see it as a symbolic act, a vaccination against the right-wing groups who will oppose India,'' Mr. Kumar said of the trade show and Mr. Sharma's visit. ''If this is successful, the next one can be bigger.''
Pakistan is easily India's toughest foreign policy challenge, with hard-liners on both sides showing little desire to compromise, yet Mr. Kumar believes progress is possible because the middle class in both countries wants to ease hostilities and focus on economic growth.
Mr. Malik noted that the rise of India's middle class, as well as the growing domestic influence of the private sector, has created a quiet constituency for easing hostilities with Pakistan. ''The growth phenomenon has made the Indian middle class less tolerant of adventurism, lawlessness and war,'' he said. ''It is still worried about terrorism. But it doesn't want to fight wars. It has other things to do.''
A Cold War Legacy
India's political establishment is still grappling with redefining the country's foreign policy, and its cold war legacy of nonalignment still holds a lingering and potent appeal. As the private sector (and Mr. Singh) have pushed India toward closer ties with historical rivals like the United States, and now Pakistan, a strong reaction has occurred in some quarters. Many leftists say the government is pushing India too close to the United States and kowtowing to corporate interests. Right-wing Hindu groups are suspicious of any interaction with Pakistan.
And others note that the corporate sector is protective of its own vested interests. Mr. Tellis, the former American diplomat, said India's uncertain response to the Arab Spring was partly because the nation's private sector -- which has major business dealings in the Persian Gulf -- was hesitant to embrace political change.
''They are simply afraid that if they end up supporting revolutionary movements, many of their economic interests that have been put in place, private sector interests, would be at risk,'' Mr. Tellis said. ''These interests feel very uncomfortable with change in the status quo in the gulf.''
In Pakistan, the slow progress being made on trade could be derailed by a new terrorist attack, a risk Mr. Kumar regards as unavoidable. Meanwhile, movement on issues like Kashmir and terrorism is almost nonexistent. Still, two weeks after the Indian trade trip, Pakistan announced a change in rules that could greatly expand the number of products imported from India -- a business and diplomatic victory.
India's Way: Articles in this series are exploring the messy and maddening road to progress in India, which has built one of the world's fastest- growing economies in spite of a government that often fails to keep up.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN BUSINESS: A booth for Motherson International, an Indian company that produces clothes and costume jewelry, at the Indian trade show in Lahore, Pakistan, in February. (A4)
 India held its first trade show in Pakistan in Lahore, above. Rajiv Kumar, left of center, who led an Indian delegation, with Pakistan's commerce minister, Makhdoom Amin Fahim, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAM PHELPS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); TRADE SHOWS (75%); WATER RIGHTS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); TERRORISM (50%)

COMPANY: COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (52%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (92%) KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (58%) INDIA (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFRICA (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



6 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; FIELD NOTES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: If 'Forever' Doesn't Work Out: The Same-Sex Prenup

BYLINE: By LOUISE RAFKIN

 BODY:
WHEN Ellen DeGeneres and Portia de Rossi were married in 2008, people wanted to know two things: What did they wear? And was there a prenup?
Regarding the first question, the couple wore Zac Posen.
The second question -- Ms. DeGeneres's representatives did not respond when asked if she had a prenup or not -- has become important for many other same-sex couples, who have discovered that all the new opportunities to marry are accompanied by a gloomy companion that hangs silently over every prospective newlywed: the possibility of divorce.
''The old adage 'with rights come responsibilities' comes to mind,'' said Frederick Hertz, an Oakland, Calif., lawyer and an author of ''Making It Legal: A Guide to Same-Sex Marriage, Domestic Partnership & Civil Unions'' (Nolo Press, 2009). 
Having mediated ugly same-sex breakups, both for those legally married and in domestic partnerships, Mr. Hertz is a staunch advocate of the prenuptial contract; he has worked on more than 100 in the last five years. Yet Mr. Hertz's unscientific guess is that less than 20 percent of same-sex couples talk to lawyers before reciting vows.
Lisa Padilla, 49, a Manhattan lawyer, and Allison Drew Klein, 55, a sales representative for Pitney Bowes, met during Rosh Hashana at their synagogue in 2010. In a matter of weeks, they formed a strong bond.
For both women, previous long-term relationships had ended badly, and in Ms. Padilla's case, the problems involved finances. Ms. Padilla, who owns her own law firm, said she made far more than her previous partner and paid for most of the couple's expenses.
After a giddy three months of dating, Ms. Padilla and Ms. Klein moved in together. They had been sharing costs equally, so when Ms. Padilla broached the subject of a prenuptial agreement, Ms. Klein was taken aback.
''It was unsettling, and took some of the romance away, '' she said. ''I read Lisa's insistence for a prenup as a lack of trust.''
Both women had considerable assets, including apartments and investments. ''I really wanted the assurance that if we were making a mistake, we could extricate ourselves easily,'' Ms. Padilla said.
Ms. Klein thought the issue was moot. After all, this was supposed to last forever.
For months, the question languished and the prenuptial document that Ms. Padilla had drafted lay untouched.
Both women hired lawyers, and the process was nerve-racking, more so -- curiously -- for Ms. Padilla. ''I was skip-happy in love, but scared, too,'' she said. ''I could see how the opportunities for misinterpretation abounded -- both between the two of us and among our friends.''
''We were looking ahead,'' she added, ''but we didn't have anything on paper.''
Eventually, Ms. Klein agreed to sign.
''In my opinion, Lisa had been taken advantage of in other relationships,'' she said. ''I wanted her to be able to feel safe in this one.''
The women were married in Manhattan last December. ''For the first time, I feel like I'm with an equal partner,'' Ms. Padilla said. ''My primary purpose with the prenup was to take finances off the table and engage in the relationship with our hearts.''
Michele Kahn, the lawyer who represented Ms. Klein, strongly advises those thinking about marriage to grasp all the ramifications, saying, ''During breakups, it's everyone for themselves.''
She says most often it is not the cost of the agreement ($2,000 to $5,000) that short-circuits the process, but the complicated questions that can arise over, say, alimony; compensation for a stay-at-home parent; and retirement accounts, which for same-sex couples cannot be divided without penalties and tax consequences.
Same-sex marriages are not federally recognized, which can make things messier, say, if a couple moves to a state that does not acknowledge their union. ''If the second state follows the rules of the first it probably will be binding, but some states have tighter standards and if it's not written according to those tighter standards, it might not be binding,'' Mr. Hertz said.
Prenuptial agreements were originally established to protect family wealth. That notion is sometimes cloudy in same-sex relationships.
''In the gay community there is a lot of socializing among people with large discrepancies in both income and family wealth,'' said Jooske Stil, a marriage and family therapist in Oakland. ''Romance often blooms before there's full disclosure about economic backgrounds and family inheritances.''
Erik Kaeding, now 34, a lawyer in San Jose, Calif., and his partner, Greg Wardle, now 40, married in 2008 during the brief time that same-sex marriage was legal in California. At the time, Mr. Kaeding, a former teacher, was in law school. He said he wanted Mr. Wardle, an electrical engineer who earned a considerably higher salary, to know he intended to contribute to the partnership equally.
The couple used a do-it-yourself legal book for their agreement, and Mr. Kaeding said it helped limn their expectations and clarify their relationship.
''I didn't grow up with the idea that I would be taken care of,'' he said. ''Or that I would be owed something if the relationship went badly.''
For some couples, particularly those who have been together for many years, if not decades, and jump at the chance to marry as soon as their state allows it, the very notion of spelling out a post-divorce existence can seem preposterous.
Mr. Hertz said, however, that he knew of several longtime couples who broke up during the prenuptial process. ''Same-sex couples are approaching marriage as a civil rights issue, not a private financial contract -- which is considerably less romantic and exciting,'' he said.
Despite talk of alimony and tax consequences, many lawyers, including Mr. Hertz, said the prenuptial process, if done right, can draw a couple closer.
''Even if the relationship is life-long and 'till death do us part,' there's always an end,'' Ms. Padilla said. ''It's just reality.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOM BLOOM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (92%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); COHABITATION (90%); PREMARITAL AGREEMENTS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); FAMILY LAW (75%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); ROSH HASHANAH (50%)

COMPANY: NOLO (83%); PITNEY BOWES INC (54%)

TICKER: PBI (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (54%)

PERSON: ELLEN DEGENERES (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



7 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Distressed Cities Weigh Bold Tactics In a New Fiscal Era

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
PHILADELPHIA -- Amid all the sobering discussions of what happens when cities run out of money, fiscal sleight of hand and time, the most telling detail at a conference on distressed municipalities here last week just might have been the one about the fire truck that was the wrong color.
Robert Stout, the former finance director of Vallejo, Calif., was talking about the spiraling public safety costs that ultimately led his city to declare bankruptcy when he mentioned the time a fire broke out two blocks from his home there, not long after the city had closed some of its firehouses to save money. 
''The first fire truck that went by was yellow,'' Mr. Stout recalled. ''Our fire trucks are red. So the first fire truck to respond was on mutual aid from a town 20 miles away. That gives you some sense of what you are facing when you get into these situations.''
These situations, as he put it delicately, are still rare, but not as rare as they once were. A number of cities and counties around the country with long-term problems have found themselves pushed over the edge by the recession and its lingering aftermath. The audience here listened to war stories from the emergency fiscal managers that Michigan has installed in a couple of its most distressed cities. Even Nassau County, on Long Island, one of the wealthiest counties in the nation, has seen its perennially troubled finances placed under a state-appointed control board.
''This is truly a new era for dealing with troubled municipalities,'' said Michael Stanton, the publisher of The Bond Buyer, a public finance newspaper, which sponsored the packed two-day conference here with Ballard Spahr, a law firm, and Public Financial Management Inc., a company that provides independent financial advice to governments around the nation.
Attempts to plug budget holes with one-time transactions are giving way to other approaches, Mr. Stanton said. The conference was devoted to a discussion of the strengths and weaknesses of the more powerful tools being used in many cities these days, including receiverships, emergency declarations and even bankruptcy.
New woes were unfolding elsewhere even as a capacity crowd of government officials, investors, lawyers and credit analysts were gathering here to discuss the trend.
In Jefferson County, Ala. -- which filed the biggest Chapter 9 municipal bankruptcy in American history this fall after its sewer-construction financing fell apart and a court threw out one of its taxes -- county commissioners were voting to default on a general obligation bond payment.
In Detroit, city and state officials were sparring over how much emergency aid the city might be able to get, and how much state oversight and control would accompany it.
Stockton, Calif., was in negotiations in a last-ditch effort to avoid becoming the biggest American city yet to declare bankruptcy. And just two hours west of Philadelphia, Harrisburg, the state capital, recently announced that it would default on a payment coming due to general obligation bondholders.
It all gave a certain urgency to the discussions.
Richard L. Sigal, a lawyer who has played roles in many fiscal crises, including New York City's in the 1970s, was wary of bankruptcy, arguing that the Chapter 9 law does not bestow the power to tax, cut spending or borrow -- the tools that struggling governments need. ''I have yet to see a situation where bankruptcy is the right option for any municipality,'' he said.
But Robert G. Flanders Jr., the state-appointed receiver for Central Falls, R.I., said his city's declaration of bankruptcy had proved invaluable in helping it cut costs. Before the city declared bankruptcy, he said, he had found it impossible to wring meaningful concessions out of the city's unions and retirees -- who were being asked to give up roughly half of the pensions they had earned as the city ran out of cash.
''The municipality is on bended knee asking the retirees and unions to come to the table and give up their contract rights,'' he recalled. ''All of that leverage shifts once you have the gumption to pull the Chapter 9 trigger. And guess what? That produces agreements quicker and more effectively than otherwise.''
Others preferred the approaches some states had taken to avoid bankruptcies. Two of Michigan's new emergency fiscal managers -- Joseph L. Harris in Benton Harbor and Joyce Parker in Ecorse -- talked about the sometimes unpopular steps they could take under a new state law giving them the power to reject contracts, including labor contracts.
Pennsylvania officials explained their state oversight program, in which Harrisburg and 25 other municipalities are enrolled. Natwar M. Gandhi, the chief financial officer of Washington, D.C., spoke about how giving budgetary powers to an independent officer had helped put the nation's capital on more solid financial footing.
But some of the most urgent exchanges concerned bankruptcy, which, in the past, cities sought to avoid at all costs.
Naomi Richman, a managing director at Moody's Investors Service, wondered aloud whether it might become more acceptable for cities to declare bankruptcy.
''Back in the '80s, the stigma against corporate bankruptcy fell away, and it became viewed as a strategy a corporation might pursue for various reasons,'' Ms. Richman said. ''Recently, with the residential housing collapse, individual bankruptcy has less of stigma in society -- it's a strategy that a person might be advised to follow if they have a debt that they can't afford. Could the same thing happen for municipal bankruptcy?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tony Tager shutting down a community center in Central Falls, R.I., a city that declared bankruptcy. Other municipalities are considering such a move. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRETCHEN ERTL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Weeds had taken over at a former Vallejo, Calif., car dealership, reflecting the city's tough times. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); FIRES (72%); BONDS (71%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (71%); HISTORY (70%); BOND ISSUES (68%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (68%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TRENDS (64%); BOND MARKETS (63%); CONSTRUCTION (50%)

COMPANY: PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT INC (65%); BALLARD SPAHR LLP (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (65%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (53%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



8 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: The Bleaker Sex

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
THE first time you see Lena Dunham's character having sex in the new HBO series ''Girls,'' her back is to her boyfriend, who seems to regard her as an inconveniently loquacious halfway point between partner and prop, and her concern is whether she's correctly following instructions.
''So I can just stay like this for a little while?'' she asks. ''Do you need me to move more?''
He needs her to intrude less. ''Let's play the quiet game,'' he answers. 
The second time, she's an 11-year-old junkie with a Cabbage Patch lunchbox, or so he tells her, commencing a role play in which he alone assigns the roles. He has highly specific fantasies, and she's largely a fleshy canvas for them.
You watch these scenes and other examples of the zeitgeist-y, early-20s heroines of ''Girls'' engaging in, recoiling from, mulling and mourning sex, and you think: Gloria Steinem went to the barricades for this? Salaries may be better than in decades past and the cabinet and Congress less choked with testosterone. But in the bedroom? What's happening there remains something of a muddle, if not something of a mess.
''Girls'' makes its debut in two weeks. Dunham, just 25, is not only its star but also its principal writer and director, and she has already been accorded a voice-of-her-generation status. She even lampoons this in ''Girls'' by having her character, an aspiring writer, claim such a mantle for herself.
The show is drawing inevitable -- and apt -- comparisons to ''Sex and the City,'' in whose long shadow it blooms. ''Girls,'' too, is a half-hour comedy (of sorts) about four women finding themselves and fortifying one another in the daunting, libidinous wilds of New York City.
But it's a recession-era adjustment. The gloss of Manhattan is traded for the mild grit of Brooklyn's more affordable neighborhoods. The anxieties are as much economic as erotic. The colors are duller, the mood is dourer and the clothes aren't much. It's ''Sex and the City'' in a charcoal gray Salvation Army overcoat.
It comes along at a moment of fresh examination of women's progress. A just-published book, ''The Richer Sex,'' by Liza Mundy, asserts that women are well on their way to becoming the primary breadwinners in a majority of American families; it rated the cover of Time magazine two weeks ago. It will be joined later this year by ''The End of Men,'' by Hanna Rosin, which answers the question posed by the title of Maureen Dowd's prescient 2005 best seller, ''Are Men Necessary?'' As Rosin sees it, not so much, because women have achieved unprecedented autonomy.
But ''Girls'' also amplifies a growing chorus of laments over what's happening on the sexual frontier, a state of befuddlement reflective in part of post-feminist power dynamics and in part of our digital culture and virtual fixations.
Are young women who think that they should be more like men willing themselves into a casual attitude toward sex that's an awkward emotional fit? Two movies released last year, ''No Strings Attached'' and ''Friends With Benefits,'' held that position, and Dunham subscribes to it as well.
In a recent interview, presented in more detail on my Times blog, she told me that various cultural cues exhort her and her female peers to approach sex in an ostensibly ''empowered'' way that she couldn't quite manage. ''I heard so many of my friends saying, 'Why can't I have sex and feel nothing?' It was amazing: that this was the new goal.''
She added: ''There's a biological reason why women feel about sex the way they do and men feel about sex the way they do. It's not as simple as divesting yourself of your gender roles.''
THE Web confuses things further, unfurling a seemingly infinite cosmos of ready possibility and abetting lightning-fast connections. Several popular cellphone apps give someone with a sudden whim for a date the pictures and physical proximities of similarly inclined prospects. An assignation may be no more than 10 minutes and 20 blocks away.
Dunham noted that the Web also fosters a misleading sense of familiarity between people who have shared nothing more than keystrokes. ''All sorts of promiscuity don't feel like promiscuity,'' she said. ''But a month of text messages does not a personal connection make. I've fallen victim to the sensation that I understand some guy's essence when I've really just read 15 of his tweets.''
And there's an emerging literature of complaint from young men and women alike about the impact of free or cheap online pornography. Early last year, New York magazine ran an article by Davy Rothbart, 36, who admitted faking an orgasm with a real live woman, learned that other men had done so as well and wondered if a ''tsunami of porn'' was to blame. It was titled ''He's Just Not That Into Anyone.''
Last February GQ pondered the problem from a feminine perspective. A young woman writing under a pseudonym cited her and her friends' experiences to assert that for more and more men, ''the buffet of fetishistic porn available 24/7'' had created very particular and sometimes very peculiar, ratcheted-up desires.
''To compare it to another genre of online video,'' she wrote, ''why watch a clip of one puppy frolicking in a field when you can watch eight different puppies cuddling with a sweet-faced baby armadillo tickling a panda bear? And after seeing that, why ever settle for a boring ol' puppy frolicking in a field again?''
''Guys my age watch so much pornography,'' Dunham told me, adding that she has been subjected to aggressive positioning and ''a lot of errant hair pulling'' and has thought: ''There's no way that you, young Jewish man from Chappaqua, taught this to yourself.''
These experiences inform her ''Girls'' sex scenes, which have a depersonalized aspect. So does the sadomasochistic relationship in the best-selling erotic novel ''Fifty Shades of Grey,'' a publishing-industry phenomenon about a virginal college student presented with a contract to become the ''Submissive'' to a dashing older man's ''Dominant.'' The contract covers waxing, hygiene and the frequency with which she must work out. She haggles him down from four times a week to three.
Credibly or not, the college student seems exhilarated at the start. Dunham's more convincingly rendered characters seem perplexed, and their frustration with men raises questions about whether less privacy means more intimacy and whether sexual candor is any guarantor of sexual satisfaction.
People can be so available in a superficial sense that they're inaccessible in a deeper one. Or, as Dunham put it, ''People underestimate the importance of making solid connections.''

GRAPHIC:  DRAWING (DRAWING BY BEN WISEMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (86%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Girls (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



9 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE WEEK AHEAD; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: April 1 -- 7

 BODY:
HOW much do you know about Philadelphia's contemporary performance scene? I'm embarrassed to admit that I know very little, despite how close the city is to New York and how regularly I hear reports of cross-pollination.
Here is the latest one, right here in New York, as luck would have it; you can educate yourself without getting on a BoltBus. The THIRDBIRD organization of Philadelphia, run by Dustin Hurt and Anna Drozdowski, is coming to Abrons Arts Center for its New York debut, presenting two evenings as part of the Seen & Heard series.
The interdisciplinary programs include artists from both cities. Part 1, on Friday, focuses on collaborative improvisation between musicians and dancers, looking at both longstanding collaborations and individuals who have never before worked together (Nicole Bindler, Chase Granoff and Shayna Dulberger, among others). Saturday's lineup features three short dance pieces by Devynn Emory, Gabrielle Revlock and Annie Wilson.
Let's hope this is the first of many trips north for Thirdbird, which this season has presented the New York choreographer Levi Gonzalez and the French choreographer Xavier Le Roy, and last February produced Blindspot, a two-week festival. 8 p.m. Friday and next Saturday, 466 Grand Street, Lower East Side; abronsartscenter.org; $10. 
NOW'S the time to make plans to pile into the Jazz Gallery and hear ORRIN EVANS'S CAPTAIN BLACK BIG BAND, in town for two nights next weekend. Mr. Evans, the pianist, a bandleader and teacher, is a hero of the Philadelphia jazz scene, and though all of his groups have a certain kind of energy, the Captain Black band really dominates a room. It connotes the 1980s and '90s in style and language, but maybe the '60s in energy, which is to say it plays with urgency, beyond the coding that makes jazz a small-audience special interest. The lineup looks different depending on where and when he's playing; this 14-piece one is full of first-call New Yorkers. Watch for the trumpeter Tatum Greenblatt, the saxophonists Stacy Dillard and Marcus Strickland, and the trombonist David Gibson; Mr. Evans, with the bassist Luques Curtis and drummer Anwar Marshall, tie it together. 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; 9 and 10:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday; $20, $10 for members.
THE ancient communities of southern Mexico called themselves Children of the Plumed Serpent, after the deity Quetzalcoatl. Part bird, part snake, Quetzalcoatl was the region's founding father and benefactor. A new exhibition at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art argues that he was also a lasting political and economic phenomenon, allowing the southern kingdoms to resist conquest by the Aztecs and, later, the Spanish. Some indigenous Mexicans still call themselves descendants of Quetzalcoatl.
Opening Sunday, ''CHILDREN OF THE PLUMED SERPENT: THE LEGACY OF QUETZALCOATL IN ANCIENT MEXICO'' connects Quetzalcoatl to the development of vast trade routes that reached from central Mexico out to the Yucatan Peninsula and the American Southeast. It also credits him with inspiring the simplified International Style in art, which helped to knit together a group of ethnically diverse and multilingual communities. The show's more than 200 art objects date from the postclassic to the early colonial periods (roughly 900 to 1521), and include gold, textiles, turquoise mosaics, fresco fragments, painted codices and feather work. Through July 1, (323) 857-6000, lacma.org.
IT'S not true that David Auburn vanished after the blockbuster success of ''Proof'' around a dozen years ago. But to some theater people waiting for another Pulitzer Prize-winning play it can feel that way. He's actually been very busy, working on screenplays, adaptations, one-acts and an HBO pilot about a surgeon starring Kevin Kline. But in terms of completely original new drama -- a scarce resource on Broadway this spring -- ''THE COLUMNIST,'' which begins previews this week, represents a major return for Mr. Auburn and a good sign for audiences. This play features John Lithgow as Joseph Alsop, the powerful columnist and critic of Communism, who in the 1950s discovered that the K.G.B. had photos of him having sex with a Russian man in a Moscow hotel room. With political events like the Kennedy assassination as the backdrop, Mr. Auburn tracks Alsop's life in the '50s and '60s. In interviews the playwright said he wanted to give a complicated portrait of this fascinating figure who has been largely forgotten. The prolific Daniel Sullivan, who earned (surprisingly) his only Tony Award for ''Proof,'' is directing. Performances begin Wednesday at the Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, Manhattan; (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
HOW many types of gigantic, scary-looking fish are there in the world? At least four seasons' worth apparently.
Animal Planet's ''RIVER MONSTERS'' begins its fourth season on Sunday at 9 p.m., and it does so with a two-hour episode sure to make Americans think twice about swimming anywhere but in a pool this summer. Jeremy Wade, the show's angler in chief, who is generally found in exotic locales, devotes the season premiere to giants living or rumored to be living in American waters.
He casts for bull sharks in Florida, then heads to Texas in search of alligator gar. What size fish impresses Mr. Wade? The four-and-a-half-foot gar he lands isn't up to ''River Monster'' standards, and he goes looking for a bigger one. Also on his itinerary: the Lake of the Ozarks in Missouri, where drowning victims sometimes are never found.
''I'm told commercial divers have seen catfish big enough to swallow a man,'' Mr. Wade says. The catfish he snags just by noodling -- a type of fishing that uses only the bare hands -- seem enormous enough to keep any thinking person out of the water.
WITH the citywide American Mavericks celebration of home-grown artistic modernity behind us now, music lovers will most likely fall into two camps: some who wish the party never had to end, and others ready to soak up sounds of an earlier vintage. Anyone still hungry for fresh sounds can look to CUTTING EDGE CONCERTS, an annual new-music series hosted by the composer Victoria Bond.
That's not to say that what you will hear during the first program lacks historical resonances. Rufus Muller, a tenor widely admired for his interpretations of Bach's music, joins the pianist Jenny Lin in Ms. Bond's ''Leopold Bloom's Homecoming.'' And N. Lincoln Hanks, whose piano work ''Monstre Sacre'' receives its premiere, has extensive experience in early-music vocal groups. Also appearing is the Danjam Orchestra, a jazz ensemble; the festival continues through April 30 . 7:30 p.m. Monday, Leonard Nimoy Thalia Theater at Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org; $20, students and 65+ $15.
If you long for imported delectations of an earlier vintage, on Tuesday SAINT THOMAS CHURCH offers ''Membra Jesu nostri,'' a noble, expressive 17th-century cantata cycle by Buxtehude. John Scott conducts a seasoned ensemble that includes members of the superb consort Tenet. 6:30 p.m., Saint Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue and 53rd Street, (212) 664-9360, saintthomaschurch.org; free.
After Franco, the deluge! Or so it would seem from Anthology Film Archives' fascinating series, SPANISH CINEMA OF THE EARLY POST-FRANCO ERA (1975-83), which considers the flowering of film after his death in 1975. This was something of a coming-out party for all things underground and repressed: drugs, raucous experimentation and, of course, sex. A gay sensibility flourished, not only in the films of Pedro Almodovar, represented here by ''Pepi, Luci, Bom y Otras Chicas del Monton'' and ''Laberinto de Pasiones,'' but also in movies like Ventura Pons's ''Ocana,'' a 1978 documentary portrait of Jose Perez Ocana, an artist who walked around Barcelona in a peek-a-boo dress.
The series, beginning Friday, features 10 films, most rarely seen in America, including Ivan Zulueta's ''Arrebato'' (''Rapture''), a genre bender that is itself giddily enraptured by cinema. As one of its two filmmaker heroes says, ''It isn't me who loves film, but film who loves me.'' And beware an enthusiastic lover. Cinema, it seems, eats its young -- or at least its acolytes. 32 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village; (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); DANCERS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); DANCE (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (75%); MUSIC (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



10 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Finance Ministers Clear Way for Credit Rating Competition in Europe

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
COPENHAGEN -- European Union finance ministers agreed on Saturday to increase competition among credit ratings agencies and to continue difficult discussions on taxing certain financial transactions.
At the end of a two-day gathering here, Margrethe Vestager, Denmark's economics minister, announced that the ministers had reached an agreement to require companies to rotate ratings agencies to prevent conflicts of interest and encourage more competition.
Ms. Vestager said it would be important to make any such rules ''applicable in the real world because, you know, the market for credit rating is rather limited.'' 
A European law requiring companies to rotate agencies, and in turn encourage ratings competitors to enter the market, could have major implications for companies like Fitch Ratings, Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's, the big three global providers that are based in the United States and have dominated the sector.
Over the past two years, European leaders have repeatedly accused the agencies of exacerbating the sovereign debt crisis by unfairly downgrading countries' creditworthiness and further driving up their costs of borrowing.
Last year, Michel Barnier, the European commissioner responsible for financial services, proposed that companies be forced to change every three years the company that they pay to rate their credit, or every six years if they hired more than one ratings agency.
He also said that financial institutions should be allowed to rely less on the agencies and be obliged to make their own assessments.
Those rules still need to be approved by governments and the European Parliament, and Mr. Barnier's proposals on the frequency of rotation could be modified. A longer phasing-in period for the rules could also be added.
Even so, the political support shown by the ministers on Saturday for rotation could mean that Europe will reach an agreement on a new law regulating ratings agencies in the summer.
The discussions on ratings agencies followed the finance ministers' decision on Friday to increase the size of a bailout fund for the euro zone to about $1 trillion.
That decision was overshadowed by a disagreement between the Austrian finance minister, Maria Fekter, and Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the Eurogroup of euro zone finance ministers, over who got to announce the deal first.
Mr. Juncker canceled a scheduled news conference after Ms. Fekter upstaged him with an impromptu announcement.
Ministers avoided acrimony on Saturday in a discussion about creating a so-called financial transaction tax, a proposal that has drawn fierce criticism from Sweden and Britain.
Proponents say such a mechanism could help recoup vast sums of money that governments have spent to save banks by levying a tax on most share, derivative and bond trades. But opponents warn that such a tax would push banks and other financial institutions to abandon European financial centers like the City of London and could ultimately leave European governments with less revenue.
In a sign that the governments could be preparing the path to a compromise, Anders Borg, the Swedish finance minister, said he could support a more modest levy known as a stamp duty that mainly taxes shares.
''Something in line with the French stamp duty or the British stamp duty'' would be less costly for the economy and could be acceptable to Sweden and Britain, Mr. Borg said in comments on the margins of the meeting.
''There are some positive signs on this,'' he said, adding that he had agreed to join a working group on the issue at the invitation of the German finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EURO (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); BOND MARKETS (70%); EXTERNAL DEBT (67%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (70%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (89%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); DENMARK (92%); SWEDEN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



11 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: Double Lives of Work and Study

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

 BODY:
''YOU know that feeling when you get home and lay in bed and your whole body just hurts? I feel like that all the time.'' 
That's how Raquel Beckford, 18, described the grind of holding a demanding job while studying to graduate from high school. It is a juggling act that young New Yorkers have struggled with for generations, scribbling homework assignments in the predawn light and reading books on late-night subway rides.
Emily Berl, a photographer based in Brooklyn, focused her lens on several teenagers leading these double lives. One of those she has followed is Osama Al-Mulaiki, 17, who opens a Brooklyn deli before sunrise and returns after school to work into the night. His parents live in Yemen, where he grew up.
Ms. Berl, 26, met working teenagers, some with parents who do not have jobs, others who support families back in their native countries. One works during the day and attends school at night.
As hard as they work -- ''I wish I could just sleep,'' one weary 18-year-old said -- they take pride in their contributions. ''The bills went up,'' said Felicia Pravata, a senior who lives in Queens and works at a clothing store, ''so I wanted to help.'' SAM DOLNICK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ASCAR BLACKWOOD, 18, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn, works at his cousin's restaurant, above, before classes at the Manhattan Comprehensive Night and Day High School. He lives with his father, helps with rent and pays his own expenses
he also sends money home to Jamaica for his mother and his girlfriend.
FELICIA PRAVATA, 18, a senior at Benjamin N. Cardozo High School in Bayside, Queens, works the floor at a Joyce Leslie clothing store, above, near her home in Flushing. She lives with her aunt and helps pay for their bills and food, as well as for her own expenses and activities like her prom.
RAQUEL BECKFORD, 18, works three days a week after school at the Manhattan law firm Adam Leitman Bailey, P.C., left, over an hour by train from her home on 225th Street in the Bronx. She is salutatorian of her class at Peace and Diversity Academy, and attends college classes two days a week. She lives with her mother, who is unemployed, and works to pay her own expenses as well as to gain some job experience.
 OSAMA AL-MULAIKI, 17, of Canarsie, Brooklyn, works at a deli, right, in Greenwood Heights most mornings before school and most evenings. Originally from Yemen, he moved to New York in 2008. He pays his tuition at Al-Noor, an Islamic day school from which he is to graduate soon. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMILY BERL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); FAMILY (77%); HOMEWORK (71%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); YEMEN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



12 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Your Knees, Their Seat: Discuss

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
GETTING a good seat in coach is a hot topic among fliers these days. Responding to the March 14 Practical Traveler column, ''How to Avoid That Cramped Seat,'' more than 200 readers weighed in on the subject, posting comments at nytimes.com/travel.
While many readers debated whether using the Knee Defender, a device that blocks the seat in front of yours from reclining, should be used onboard, others offered helpful strategies of their own for landing a better seat.
Among those tips was the suggestion to peruse airline seat maps starting a few days before departure, when many carriers allow elite frequent fliers or full-fare coach passengers to upgrade to first or business class, depending on status, leaving behind prize coach seats.
Heather Murphy from Evanston, Ill., said she has landed an exit row ''for nearly every flight'' by taking what she can get at the time of booking, and then logging on to the airline Web site early in the morning on the day of departure. 
Alternatively, she wrote, ''I arrive 90 minutes early for a domestic flight, at which point the exit row seats have been opened, but are usually not taken yet.''
Steve Gordon, co-founder of MySeatFinder, used the comment section to point out that his service will search airline seat maps and nab that exit row aisle or bulkhead seat for you. Users create accounts by signing up with their e-mail addresses and entering their frequent flier account numbers and airline seating preferences. Then MySeatFinder, which currently works with several major domestic carriers, including American, Delta and United, operates behind the scenes to find a better seat for your coming flight, and sends you an e-mail message with your new seat assignment when one is found.
''It's a set and forget tool and it works,'' Mr. Gordon wrote. The service is free for the ''basic service'' option, which covers eight flight legs or four round trips, and $29 a year for unlimited flights.
Other suggestions for securing a good seat include choosing nonpeak flight times. Bob Solomon, from Edmonton, Alberta, who noted that he is 6 feet 3 inches, books flights that take off very early or late in the day because they tend to be less full and offer a little wiggle room onboard: ''6 a.m. instead of 9 works, as does 3 p.m. instead of 11 a.m.,'' he wrote.
Some readers said that when given the choice, foreign airlines are often the better bet when it comes to comfort. On a recent Swiss International Air Lines flight to Europe, Caryl Baron from Sandia Park, N.M., noted that ''everyone on the flight appeared to have sufficient legroom. Strangely, the seats even seemed a wee bit wider than on US airlines, and they had lumbar support and properly placed headrests.''
Several readers pointed out that actually booking your ideal seat doesn't mean you'll get it. Planes are sometimes switched because of maintenance or schedule changes.
Jan Bone, 81, from Palatine, Ill., for example, said she paid extra to sit in United's Economy Plus section, which offers more legroom, after she had an artificial knee implant. ''United switched planes -- and voila!'' she wrote, ''no economy plus on the substitute airplane. Fortunately, I had a brief layover in Denver, and the plane for the second half of the ride did have it.'' Now, with two artificial knees, she said she is dreading a December trip she plans to make for her granddaughter's college graduation.
''As a senior needing wheelchair assistance to get to gate and board, the idea of standard economy seating for a 4-hour flight is frightening!'' she wrote. ''It took me more than a week after that earlier trip to get over the residual pain from the cramped seating.''
Many reader comments focused on the Knee Defender, a set of plastic wedges that slip onto the legs of your tray table and physically prevent the seat in front of you from tilting back.
Those against the Knee Defender contended that the ability to recline your airline seat was an inalienable right and that blocking someone from doing so was downright insolent.
''You have no right to restrict the movement of my seat,'' wrote Brian J. Handel, a telephone switch engineer from Little Rock, Ark. ''I might add,'' he went on, ''that if you asked me nicely to not put the seat all the way back I would probably accommodate you. Anything else on your part is just plain rude.''
Those in favor of the device, most of whom pointed out that they were six feet tall or more, recounted how their knees had been repeatedly whacked by passengers who abruptly recline their seat midflight without any warning.
''I do it in self defense of my knees,'' said Chris Bolton, 53, from Boise, Id., who describes himself as 6 feet 3 inches ''with iffy knees.'' He made his own knee defenders by using C-clamps that he attaches to the arms of his tray table to prevent the person ahead of him from reclining. ''No one has ever asked me to remove them. Any person who tries to move their seat back and can't simply assumes that the seat is broken,'' he said, adding that if asked he would remove them, but would not be against pressing his shins into the seatback in front of him. ''I justify using them by believing that pain avoidance is more important than additional (and marginal) increased comfort.''
Some readers questioned whether the device was legal to use on planes at all. The Federal Aviation Administration doesn't condone the Knee Defender but doesn't outlaw it either.
''In our view anything that tampers with how a seat is supposed to perform -- because they are supposed to perform in a certain way in an emergency -- is not something that we support,'' said a spokeswoman, Alison Duquette. She added, ''it's really up to the airlines if they want to allow it to be used on their airplane.''
WHEN I put the question to major United States carriers, few responded. Those that did ultimately left it up to passenger discretion.
''We expect our customers follow the basic rules of etiquette in-flight,'' American responded in an e-mail message. ''Our preference is that customers politely inform those seated in front of them if a reclining seat is causing an issue for any reason.''
To avoid animosity, several readers suggested asking the person in the seat ahead to refrain from reclining or to recline only slightly instead of resorting to extreme measures.
''The airlines have instilled a mentality wherein we all feel as though we have to fight for every inch,'' posted a reader by the screen name L from Boston, ''but there should be some sense of a social contract on airplanes.'' The comment went on, ''It's unfair to actively prevent recline, especially on a red-eye flight, but there would be less temptation to do so if more people were selective and respectful about when and how they choose to recline.''

GRAPHIC:  DRAWING (DRAWING BY ERIC HANSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (78%); AIR FARES (78%)

COMPANY: SWISS INTERNATIONAL AIR LINES AG (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481212 NONSCHEDULED CHARTERED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (50%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (71%); ALBERTA, CANADA (52%) UNITED STATES (71%); CANADA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



13 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Illa Steen, William Gaunt

BYLINE: By ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY

 BODY:
Ida Louise Larkin Steen, the daughter of Ida Clement Steen and John T. Steen Jr. of San Antonio, was married Saturday evening to William Hartley Gaunt, a son of Nancy Hartley Gaunt of Evansville, Ind., and Philip M. Gaunt of Wichita, Kan. The Rev. Dr. Louis H. Zbinden Jr., a Presbyterian minister, officiated on the main house lawn at the King Ranch in Kingsville, Tex.
The couple graduated from Vanderbilt; she magna cum laude, he summa cum laude . 
The bride, 28, who is known as Illa, is taking her husband's name. Until February, she was the gallery manager for Rountree Fine Art in London, where she was responsible for the production of the gallery's catalog, organized exhibitions and was the liaison with American clients. She received a post-graduate diploma in modern and contemporary art from Christie's Education in London
Her father is a lawyer in private practice in San Antonio. He is also a commissioner of the Texas Department of Public Safety. Her mother is a member of the State Preservation Board in Austin, Tex., which oversees the State Capitol, the governor's mansion and the Bob Bullock Texas State History Museum in Austin. She is also the regent emerita of the Texas A&M University System's Board of Regents.
The bride is a descendant, on her mother's side, of Richard King, the steamboat captain who in 1853 established the King Ranch, which is still owned by the family. Her grandfather the late James H. Clement was its president and chief executive. A great-grandfather, the late Martin W. Clement, was the president and chairman of the Pennsylvania Railroad. Another great-grandfather, the late John A. Larkin, was a founder and the vice chairman of the Celanese Corporation of America.
The bridegroom, 29, is an associate director in the global energy group of the investment banking unit of UBS, the Swiss bank. He works in Houston. Until last month he was an associate in the London office of Moelis & Company, an investment bank. He received an M.B.A. as well as a law degree from the University of Pennsylvania.
The bridegroom's mother, who is retired, worked in Evansville, Ind., as a vice president and financial consultant for Hilliard Lyons, an investment firm in Louisville, Ky. She manages her family's farms in southern Indiana, northern Kentucky and Southern Illinois. His father is a communications professor and the director of the Interdisciplinary Communication Research Institute at Wichita State University's Elliott School of Communication in Kansas.
The couple met briefly in Washington in 2003 when they went out to dinner with some friends. At the time, both were summer interns -- she in the scheduling office of Laura Bush and he in the Office of Economic Policy at the Treasury Department.
Although they both returned to Vanderbilt that fall they rarely saw each other on campus.
''I heard his name again when my brother was at Wharton five years later,'' Ms. Steen said. During business school her older brother, John T. Steen III, and Mr. Gaunt became good friends, and after his graduation in 2008 he got a job with a law firm in London, where she had been living since 2007. Her brother suggested he get in touch with her.
That October, they met for what he thought would be a quick drink at a pub in Sloane Square. ''I was good friends with her brother,'' he said. ''You sometimes think their sisters are off limits.''
Ms. Steen said that Mr. Gaunt was ordering a drink at the bar when she walked in and that ''when he turned around he was as handsome as I remembered.''
He was taken by her as well.
''Why, she looked great,'' he said. ''Illa had great high heels. She had such a great smile. It was a beautiful friendly face I was happy to see.''
They spent hours going in and out of little lounges and pubs, and then met up with friends of hers in Chelsea.
''I didn't want the night to end,'' she said. ''I honestly felt you could not have anything like love at first sight, but it was definitely that.'' ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARLISCH PHOTOGRAPHY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (85%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); HISTORY (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); GOVERNORS (52%)

COMPANY: CELANESE CORP (65%); J J B HILLIARD W L LYONS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: CE (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (65%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WICHITA, KS, USA (93%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (70%) TEXAS, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



14 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: As Mayor Cultivates New Business, Treatment of Backer Is Questioned

BYLINE: By MATT SMITH. 
msmith@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Two days after the Nov. 8, 2011, San Francisco mayoral election, Mayor Edwin M. Lee and his top campaign contributor, the Silicon Valley investor Ron Conway, met for a two-hour dinner at Cafe des Amis in San Francisco's tony Marina District.
The topic, as Mr. Conway described it: how to ''preserve the momentum'' of the independent expenditure committees for which the investor had raised $600,000 to help elect Mr. Lee. The outcome of the dinner was the San Francisco Citizens Initiative for Technology & Innovation, or sf.citi, a nonprofit technology business league with the goal of helping to lure technology companies to San Francisco.
Five months after the election, however, questions have been raised about Mr. Lee's actions on behalf of companies in which Mr. Conway has a financial interest. The mayor's actions follow a controversy in 2011 in which Mr. Lee, while serving as interim mayor, helped steer local tax breaks to Twitter and Zynga, two other companies backed by Mr. Conway. 
Mr. Lee told The Bay Citizen that he has intervened to attempt to prevent the city's tax collector from charging a 14 percent hotel tax on short-term apartment rentals arranged by the online booking agency Airbnb, a company that received major backing from Mr. Conway's SV Angel investment firm. And Mr. Lee's staff has moved to help another company backed by Mr. Conway, Square, which makes a device that allows users to collect credit card payments on their smartphones. Mr. Lee said his office has intervened to keep the city's taxi regulators from banning the device, which the regulators contend may be viewed with suspicion by passengers.
''This is less about Ron Conway and more about sf.citi and how we can help companies that are giving back to San Francisco,'' Mr. Lee said.
Tony Winnicker, an adviser to Mr. Lee who served as his campaign spokesman, said the mayor made support for local technology investments a key part of his 2011 campaign message, and that aiding local startups is a matter of following through on a promise to voters. As of late 2011, a document obtained by The Bay Citizen revealed, Mr. Conway's SV Angel firm has or had investments in 69 San Francisco-based companies. Mr. Winnicker said it would be impossible to pursue a local tech-industry policy without somehow benefiting Mr. Conway's investments. Other investors in his SV Angel funds include former Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger.
''We make no apologies,'' Mr. Winnicker said. ''Lee is following through on what he promised he would do as mayor.''
Critics, however, contend that this is an example of how Mr. Lee's actions demonstrate his lack of independence from his political backers. Mr. Conway is a Republican. Mr. Lee is a Democrat.
''There's a distinct difference between pursuing policies that raise the tide for everybody and pay-to-play politics to reward one particular supporter's investment,'' said Aaron Peskin, a former Board of Supervisors president who is now head of the local Democratic Party. ''This is about rewarding a major campaign contributor. It's pay-to-play politics pure and simple.''
Mr. Winnicker said he ''vehemently'' disagreed that Mr. Lee's actions amounted to ''pay for play.''
Corey Cook, an assistant professor of politics at the University of San Francisco, said it was not unusual for politicians to find backers in industries they support. But, Mr. Cook said, the mayor's close ties to Mr. Conway could harm him politically.
''It's not that Lee risks violating ethics standards,'' Mr. Cook said. ''It's that he feeds into the perception that he's not an independent politician.''
On March 12, San Francisco's treasurer and tax collector posted on the agency Web site a rule specifying that online brokers who help people rent their rooms to vacation travelers must pay the city's 14 percent hotel occupancy tax. The obscure-seeming rule was of keen interest to Airbnb, the leader in this nascent business, which employs 125 people at its San Francisco headquarters.
Later in the month, an employee of Mr. Conway's SV Angel investment firm sent an e-mail to local technology firms urging them to send employees to a hearing about the rule.
Last Tuesday, Mr. Lee announced the formation of a ''Sharing Economy Working Group,'' which the mayor said in an interview had as a goal creating legislation to give a tax break to companies like Airbnb.
The next day, the fourth-floor hearing room of San Francisco's City Hall was packed to overflowing with 120 young people, many wearing buttons with the Airbnb logo.
At the hearing, Jay Nath, Mr. Lee's chief technology officer, urged the city's tax administrator to postpone enforcing the tax until a newly appointed ''collaborative consumption work group'' could come up with a compromise.
''The important thing is to have a policy discussion first, so we can see how to support companies built around the model of collaborative consumption,'' Mr. Lee said in an interview.
Mr. Lee's stance seemed to represent an about-face from the position of San Francisco's previous mayor, Gavin Newsom. In March 2010, Mr. Newsom wrote to Nancy Pelosi, then the speaker of the United States House of Representatives, urging her to derail efforts by online travel agencies, a category that includes companies like Expedia and Travelocity, to obtain relief from local hotel taxes.
Jennifer Matz, Mr. Lee's director of economic and workforce development, defended the apparent turnabout, saying that room rentals by individuals should be viewed in a different light than the hotel business.
She said several mayoral staff members have been in discussions for the past month to help support a new type of business they call ''collaborative consumption,'' a category that includes vacation room rentals, car sharing, parking space sharing and other such activities. Fostering the growth of these kinds of emerging companies will help San Francisco develop a reputation as a cutting-edge tech hub, and that reputation might lure larger employers, Ms. Matz said.
The meetings by Mr. Lee's staff members followed the publication of an article Mr. Conway wrote for The Economist, in which he said collaborative consumption was ''perhaps the most thought-provoking sector I see developing in 2012'' for venture capital investments. He cited as examples two of his portfolio companies, Airbnb and Rentcycle, which is also based in San Francisco.
Airbnb is one of two local Conway-backed San Francisco companies that have run into recent regulatory difficulties. On Nov. 28, officials with the city's Municipal Transportation Agency recommended that the agency's board members consider possible problems with Square, the smartphone credit-card reader, before permitting taxi drivers to use it to collect payments from passengers. Unlike taxi-specific charging devices, the Square system is not connected to the meter, meaning that charges are not reported to regulators, according to a Municipal Transportation Agency staff report.
The agency's board did not follow through on the staff recommendation, however. ''We've been in discussion with people in the Municipal Transportation Agency's taxi division to get off of initial positions that were held out of fear, and embrace what could be a technology that benefits everybody,'' Mr. Lee said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Mayor Edwin M. Lee, Ron Conway and the tech entrepreneur Sean Parker at the TechFellow Awards in February. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE JENNINGS/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (51%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



15 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: Plenty to Go Around

BYLINE: By JON GERTNER. 
Jon Gertner is an editor at Fast Company and the author of ''The Idea Factory: Bell Labs and the Great Age of American Innovation.''

 BODY:
ABUNDANCE
The Future Is Better Than You Think
By Peter H. Diamandis and Steven Kotler
386 pp. Free Press. $26.99.
The past few years have been trying ones for the world's optimists. In rapid succession, our global crises have ranged from the environmental to the economic -- from tsunamis leveling entire regions of Asia and destroying seemingly impregnable nuclear reactors, to debt and unemployment crushing ostensibly healthy nations. Meanwhile, as the planet warms, ice caps melt, oceans acidify and dry regions desertify. To choose just one metric of doom, about 30 percent of the world's fish populations have either collapsed or are on their way to collapse; to choose another, global carbon emissions rose by a record 5.9 percent in 2010, a worrisome development considering that the period was characterized by slow economic growth. (What happens when things start booming again?) I could go on, but you get the gist. It seems self-evident that things are getting worse, doesn't it? 
Well, maybe. In Silicon Valley, where the locals tend to be too busy starting companies to wallow in gloom, Peter Diamandis has stood out as one of the more striking optimists. Several years ago, Diamandis founded the X Prize Foundation, which rewards entrepreneurs with cash for achieving difficult goals, like putting a reusable spaceship into flight on a limited budget. More recently he helped start Singularity University, an academic program that convenes several weeks a year in the Valley and educates business leaders about the ''disruptive'' -- i.e., phenomenally innovative -- technological changes Diamandis is anticipating. To be sure, Diamandis is both very bright (he studied molecular biology and aerospace engineering at M.I.T. before getting an M.D. at Harvard) and well informed. Moreover, he's not the kind of optimist who will merely see the glass as half full. He'll give you dozens of reasons, some highly technical, why it's half full. Then he'll explain that your cognitive biases are tricking you into seeing the glass of water in a negative light, and cart out the research of acclaimed psychologists like Daniel Kahne/man to prove his point. Finally he may suggest you stop fretting: new technologies will soon fill the glass up anyway. Indeed, they are likely to overfill it.
I don't mean to fault this disposition. Our future depends on optimists like Diamandis, and his new book, ''Abundance,'' written with the journalist Steven Kotler, is an enthusiastic take on what's to come. To Diamandis -- though the book is co-/written, it's narrated in his voice -- the state of the world is in fact much better than it appears and will soon get even better. ''Humanity,'' he says early on, ''is now entering a period of radical transformation in which technology has the potential to significantly raise the basic standards of living for every man, woman and child on the planet.''
His thesis rests on a four-legged stool. The first idea is that our technologies in computing, energy, medicine and a host of other areas are improving at such an exponential rate that they will soon enable breakthroughs we now barely think possible. Second, these technologies have empowered do-it-yourself innovators to achieve startling advances -- in vehicle engineering, medical care and even synthetic biology -- with scant resources and little manpower, so we can stop depending on big corporations or national laboratories. Third, technology has created a generation of techno-philanthropists (think Bill Gates) who are pouring their billions into solving seemingly intractable problems like hunger and disease. And finally, we have what Diamandis calls ''the rising billion.'' These are the world's poor, who are now (thanks again to technology) able to lessen their burdens in profound ways. ''For the first time ever,'' Diamandis says, ''the rising billion will have the remarkable power to identify, solve and implement their own abundance solutions.''
Diamandis and Kotler have written a frequently interesting and sometimes uplifting book. There are a number of ideas in ''Abundance'' that even devoted followers of technological trends may find new and reifying. The authors' tutorial on the declining costs of solar panels and power storage, for instance, makes a nearly airtight case for clean energy's imminent economic and environmental effects. And did you know that robotic surgeons -- first developed for soldiers during battle, now used to help with knee-replacement surgeries -- may be adapted to perform simple and urgent procedures in developing countries where doctors are scarce? Or that ''vertical farms'' within cities have a real potential to provide vegetables and fruits to local consumers on a mass scale? I didn't.
Especially encouraging here is how the authors' vision for the world's poor -- better medical care, clean water, more food, more education, all possible with the various technological tools we now have or soon will have -- adds up to a deeply humanistic case. By a future of abundance, they do not mean luxury. They mean a future that will be ''providing all with a life of possibility.''
Still, it's worth making a distinction. ''Abundance'' is not so much a report on the future as it is an argument for the potentiality of the future. And there is, so to speak, an abundance of problems in such an approach. To his credit, Diamandis acknowledges the magnitude of our global problems; and he hints, in places, at the complexity of overcoming them. Yet many new technological developments are presented here without the ballast of specific scientific, or economic, skepticism. Will we regularly ''3-D print'' human organs in the near future, just as laser printers now zip out documents? Will a revolutionary new generation of nuclear power plants actually be marketed by 2030?
The authors, keen on extrapolations, often show a casual disregard for what California's venture capitalists, an equally optimistic bunch, describe respectfully as the ''Valley of Death.'' This term refers to the difficult, cash-starved terrain a new start-up and its technology must travel through to survive. Usually they fail. In California and elsewhere, it's never enough to make a breakthrough. The inventor or company must make something that succeeds technologically, economically and culturally on a large scale. Innovation, to put it another way, harmonizes closely with market acceptance and impact. Thus when Diamandis tells us about a water purification technology developed by the inventor Dean Kamen, we're led to believe it's an imminent leap forward and are told only later that the technology is still far too expensive for widespread adoption. In this instance, and several others in the book, the take-away is not quite convincing.
More problematic, I think, is the authors' glorification of small groups over large ones. There's a curious absence of alarm over climate change in ''Abundance,'' perhaps because arresting its effects will necessitate not only a huge technological push but also the messy business of changing human behavior, radically altering government policies and brokering international accords. In other words, it doesn't begin to fit into the authors' paradigm of a problem that requires a D.I.Y. or techno-/philanthropic fix. (Nor does it appear to be a situation in which our glass-half-empty tendencies are leading us to an overly pessimistic view of the consequences. A recent poll by the Pew Research Center indicates that only 38 percent of Ameri/cans consider global warming a ''very serious'' problem.)
Throughout the book Diamandis never/theless offers small groups of driven entrepreneurs as a kind of Leatherman solution to the world's problems. It's true that plenty of insurgents are doing impressive things out there -- Elon Musk's Tesla Motors, which helped jump-start the world's electric car industry, is a good example. But Diamandis neglects to point out that small and proficient groups also often function within the fertile confines of a larger corporation (Google, Apple, Intel, even General Motors) and thus draw on an enveloping pool of expertise in research, manufacturing and marketing.
At the same time, small groups tend to be good at starting things but aren't equipped to finish things. Put another way, they can't stay small if they want to scale up. That Diamandis's X Prize Foundation awarded millions of dollars in 2007 to several inventors with car models that could achieve more than 100 miles per gallon does not implicitly prove the incompetence of companies like Ford and Toyota. To me, it merely adds to a conversation about the difficulty of moving away from cheap oil and of retooling the immensely complex global car industry, with its manufacturing challenges, liability issues and price-sensitive consumer markets. D.I.Y. folks don't worry much about such things.
Regardless of the book's short/comings, I'm fairly certain even the most skeptical readers will come away from ''Abundance'' feeling less gloomy. What's more, anyone contemplating the direction of our global society would do well to read and debate its arguments. The future may not turn out to be very bad, or even very good. We may just muddle through, with plenty of highs and lows, kind of as we're doing now. Still, there's a significant idea embedded within ''Abundance'': We should remain aware, as writers like Jared Diamond have likewise told us, that societies can choose their own future, and thus their own fate. In that spirit Diamandis and Kotler put forth a range of possible goals we may achieve if we have the imagination and the will. A little optimism wouldn't hurt, either.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIMOTHY GOODMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); FISHES (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (64%); BIOLOGY (63%); WRITERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (70%)

TITLE: Abundance: The Future Is Better Than You Think (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



16 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; REPLY ALL LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: A Big Bet Gone Bad

 BODY:
Large-scale gambling used for tax revenue is bad economics and worse public policy. A casino is an economic ''win'' for a region only if most gamblers come from elsewhere. If most come from nearby -- as is now common, with casinos in so many places -- then as one gambling scholar said, ''You simply cannot grow an economy by taking money out of it.'' You drain local wallets while shifting the tax burden to the lower-income folks who are hurt most by their losses. Then add the sad stories I've heard from public officials in casino areas across the country. Bankruptcies, embezzlement, broken families -- we're seeing it now, here in Pennsylvania. 
MIKE VARGO, Pittsburgh, posted on nytimes.com
A rational solution for gambling would require a regional approach with Foxwoods paying states like Massachusetts not to build casinos. As each state looks to gambling for revenue, however, this will fail in the long term. This is one of the problems with state-by-state solutions to the fiscal crisis.
JAMES FELDMAN, Framingham, Mass., posted on nytimes.com
As a member of the Mashantucket Pequot Tribe, I can speak to this. It was casino revenue that financed our tribe's education fund. As a result, more than 40 percent of adult tribal members have attained some level of higher education, be it an associate's, bachelor's, master's or Ph.D. degree. But what is tragic is the general lack of trust and support that the tribe's leadership had in their own educated and experienced members to help steer the tribe into more positive directions.
LORI POTTER, Ledyard, Conn., posted on nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW BETTLES) GRAPHICS: 'A really incisive piece about the changing ecosystem of TV viewing (and making . . . and marketing) by @sternbergh.' @jesseashlock, Twitter
 ANALYTICS: The Ethics and Economics of Casinos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); EMBEZZLEMENT (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



17 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: How to Avert A Financial Overdose

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
THE Food and Drug Administration vets new drugs before they reach the market. But imagine if there were a Wall Street version of the F.D.A. -- an agency that examined new financial instruments and ensured that they were safe and benefited society, not just bankers.
How different our economy might look today, given the damage done by complex instruments during the financial crisis. 
And yet, four years after the collapse of Bear Stearns, regulation of these products remains a battleground. As federal officials struggle to write rules required by the Dodd-Frank law, some in Congress are trying to circumvent them. Last week, for instance, the House Financial Services Committee approved a bill that would let big financial institutions with foreign subsidiaries conduct trades that evade rules intended to make the vast market in derivatives more transparent.
Which brings us back to the F.D.A. Against the discouraging backdrop in financial oversight, two professors at the University of Chicago have raised an intriguing idea. In a paper published in February, Eric A. Posner, a law professor, and E. Glen Weyl, an assistant professor in economics, argue that regulators should approach financial products the way the F.D.A. approaches new drugs.
The potential dangers of financial instruments, they argue, ''seem at least as extreme as the dangers of medicines.''
They contend that new instruments should be approved by a ''financial products agency'' that would test them for social utility. Ideally, products deemed too costly to society over all -- those that serve only to increase speculation, for example -- would be rejected, the two professors say.
''It is not the main purpose of our proposal to protect consumers and other unsophisticated investors from shady practices or their own ignorance,'' they wrote. ''Our goal is rather to deter financial speculation because it is welfare-reducing and contributes to systemic risk.''
It is a refreshing rejoinder to the mantra on Wall Street -- and in some circles in Washington -- that financial innovation is always good and regulation is always bad. Bankers often argue that complex financial products are among America's great inventions.
But given that exotic instruments played a central role in the credit crisis, it is worth questioning the costs and benefits of such financial innovations. The paper by Mr. Posner and Mr. Weyl provides a basis for what could be a productive dialogue.
''We tried an experiment with a very radical form of deregulation that has very little basis in sound economic science,'' Mr. Weyl said in an interview last week. ''What we're advocating is to do the best we can to put the genie back in the bottle.''
FIRST, their paper says, we should distinguish between financial markets -- where institutions lend money, trade securities and make investments -- and the real economy, where people trade goods and services.
''It is tempting to think that if the real economy should be largely unregulated (as it is), then the financial markets should be as well,'' the professors wrote. But that view, they went on, is wrong.
Instead, they advocate testing new financial products for social benefits. For example, financial instruments could be judged by whether they help people hedge risks -- which is generally beneficial -- or whether they simply allow gambling, which can be costly.
The instruments could also be measured for how they affect capital allocation, and whether they might add useful information to the marketplace.
The professors note certain instruments that they say have added little to society. Among them are credit default swaps, which were devised in the 1990s and became enormously popular.
The paper concludes that credit default swaps have considerable drawbacks. Those who use swaps to hedge their debt holdings, for example, assume the risks of dealing with counterparties. Swaps also contribute little to the appropriate allocation of capital, the professors say, because investors use them to take positions on debt that is already outstanding. And the paper dismisses the notion that such swaps provide significant information to the market about the safety of underlying debt.
Imagining a credit default swap being brought before a financial protection agency, Mr. Posner and Mr. Weyl wrote: ''We would expect the F.P.A. to treat it skeptically.''
Alternatively, the professors point to a type of derivative that lets homeowners hedge exposures to real estate. These derivatives are potentially good for society because they can offset losses if housing prices fall, Mr. Posner and Mr. Weyl say, reckoning that the instruments have had a positive effect for those who have used them. But unlike credit default swaps, they have gained little traction in the market.
The professors also question the central tenet of the nation's financial regulatory framework -- that full disclosure provides enough protection for investors.
''My major concern about Dodd-Frank is that the basic philosophy behind it is to improve disclosure, the traditional way of addressing market failures in a way that is thought to be helpful but not too intrusive,'' Mr. Posner said last week.
But disclosure alone isn't enough in the pharmaceutical industry, he said, and the same view should be applied to finance.
''In pharmaceuticals, we could allow a company to sell whatever it wants as long as it tells people the product might work but also might cause your head to fall off,'' Mr. Posner said. ''We don't do that because people will ignore the information, so we draw the line and say, 'You can't buy that product.' ''
Mr. Posner and Mr. Weyl say they know full well that their proposal will upset the wizards of Wall Street and their fans, which include many in the regulatory arena. The professors also recognize that their proposal, if enacted, would encourage financial activity to move overseas in order to evade oversight.
But this challenge faces any type of financial regulation, and the professors suggest that it could be solved by coordination with other countries having large financial centers.
THE proposal by Mr. Posner and Mr. Weyl is unlikely to get off the ground anytime soon. But if their ideas open a discussion about measuring the social costs of our financial products, that alone would be a step forward.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); INTERVIEWS (67%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



18 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2058 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: How We Decide When to Go to War

 BODY:
Readers debate how recent military interventions abroad have swayed public sentiment.
The Letter
To the Editor:
In ''Falling In and Out of War'' (column, March 19), Bill Keller laudably seeks to pin down the ''right questions'' a president should ask before deciding on war. He comes up with no fewer than five, each with multiple caveats.
In fact, America's role in the world on big issues of war and peace can often be pared down to a simpler calculation: whether the American people deem foreign threats worth the risks of overseas military entanglements.
America's involvement in foreign wars has typically corresponded with stark public perceptions of threat -- German submarine warfare brought the United States into World War I; Pearl Harbor did the same in World War II; North Korea's invasion of South Korea legitimized cold-war containment. 
When threats seem diminished, Americans renew their age-old demand for limits in foreign policy. America's failed humanitarian experiment in Somalia elicited loud calls to disengage from the world in the 1990s.
The 9/11 attacks renewed America's militarism in foreign affairs. But now, after a decade of enormous costs in blood and treasure, and visible successes against Al Qaeda, the nation is again insisting on a more modest global role.
While there may be the occasional limited humanitarian action (as in Libya), it will be difficult to win public support even for military endeavors linked to tangible security interests.
As Mr. Keller points out, global dangers are swirling -- from Iran's nuclear program, to emboldened affiliates of Al Qaeda, to a rising, more assertive China.
The risk is that America will default back into a 1930s or 1990s complacency, only to be forced back into the world at a time, place and manner not of its own choosing.
STUART GOTTLIEB New York, March 26, 2012
The writer, a former Senate foreign policy adviser and speechwriter, teaches international affairs and public policy at Columbia University.
Readers React
As Mr. Gottlieb notes, there is a real danger that the pendulum representing America's global involvement could swing back to 1930s isolation or 1990s complacency. Such are the consequences of our ill-conceived military campaign and occupation of Iraq and the overextended occupation of Afghanistan.
Foreign engagement must always be related to our national security interests, with military action reserved for those occasions when diplomacy has failed and the threat leaves us with no choice. Our failure, after the 9/11 attacks, to bring a disciplined approach to our response to stateless terrorism as personified by Al Qaeda cost us dearly in lives lost and permanently damaged, as well as treasure. Without a doubt, it weakened our financial capacity and the willingness of the American people to respond to international entanglements.
But there is no way to rewrite our lost decade. We can only hope to recognize our mistakes and trust that our government will call for national sacrifice when, and only when, the circumstances require it, and when, and only when, we are responding to real threats and not, as was true with Iraq, for the sake of flexing our military might against imagined enemies.
JAY N. FELDMAN Port Washington, N.Y., March 28, 2012
While Mr. Keller and Mr. Gottlieb have started a welcome dialogue, they both make the dire mistake of overemphasizing the military's role in national security. The United States and other great powers face existential threats to basic security that military commitments do almost nothing to combat. They include a changing global climate that is already producing extreme disruptions to the climate norms that have allowed humans to flourish with reliable food and water.
Two decades after the cold war ended, we have also failed to secure the greatest weaponized threat to civilization: the enormous and costly stockpiles of nuclear weapons and explosive material.
If New York City is struck by nuclear terror or submerged by rising seas, Americans will rightly ask: Where were the leadership and investment in long-term security when the United States was busy fighting wars of choice and drilling for more climate-altering fossil fuels?
LUKAS HAYNES New York, March 28, 2012
The writer, a former State Department speechwriter, is an adviser to the Center for Climate and Security.
John Quincy Adams was right in 1821 when he said of America: ''Wherever the standard of freedom and independence has been or shall be unfurled, there will her heart, her benedictions and her prayers be. But she goes not abroad, in search of monsters to destroy.'' And he is still right today.
It is long past time that we paid attention to our own defense and ceased playing at world policeman and behavior dictator. We have saved Kuwait and freed Iraq, neither of which benefited us one bit. What should have been a quick and limited cleansing of Al Qaeda in Afghanistan became an overlong, costly and muddled mixture of revenge and a failed attempt to nation build. Iran threatens us not a bit. Let it and Israel work out their problems.
Drawing back into self-defense and self-interest need not mean a regression to helplessness.
We must stop inventing monsters to destroy and settle back down to being an America that speaks softly and carries a really big stick only in defense of its own territory and vital interests. Mr. Keller provided a very good outline for doing just that. Mr. Gottlieb would rather continue to create nonexistent monsters for future destruction by dwelling on false historical comparisons and predictions.
BILL BARRY Huntsville, Ala., March 28, 2012
In this age of expanded presidential powers, a factor that often goes overlooked is our constitutionally mandated process for making decisions about war. Article I of our Constitution is clear: Congress ''shall have the power ... to declare war.''
The founders understood the implications of such a decision and sought to decentralize it and tie the process to the will of the people as expressed through their representatives.
It seems that the only way Mr. Keller's five questions on whether to go to war can be answered is through the process of Congressional debate. We saw the failure of that process with President Lyndon B. Johnson in Vietnam and President George W. Bush in Iraq. In the former, Congress was simply lied to, and in the latter, a military timetable for invasion was established by the president and Congress was bullied into meeting it. Both proceeded to entangle our nation in lengthy wars based on Congressional resolutions that fell short of a full declaration of war while having the same dire implications. We deserve better than that.
As our conflicts with Iran continue to fester, Congress must uphold its constitutional mandate to defend the country and take the nation to war only after full and open debate. All members of Congress must be prepared to be accountable to their constituents and to the country as a whole for their vote on a declaration of war.
VICTOR M. GOODE Flushing, Queens, March 28, 2012
The writer is an associate professor at City University School of Law.
What Mr. Gottlieb omits in his letter is that the ''fear'' he associates with the public's willingness to support military intervention is largely manufactured. In many of America's military interventions since the Spanish-American War, elites have fanned, manufactured and exploited public fears to shore up support for interventions that are utterly unrelated to any national security interests but have everything to do with American corporate interests.
Indeed, the foreign policy makers are very often once and future officers of the very corporate interests that the military is deployed to protect. Confusing economic interests with national security interests is nothing new, but as long as corporate interests dominate the policy-making apparatus, we will witness the discovery of endless enemies in need of policing.
DANA WARD Claremont, Calif., March 28, 2012
The writer is a professor of political studies at Pitzer College.
Every few years, the American foreign policy establishment solemnly warns of the return of isolationism. Although public opinion polls have certainly shown that the American public is weary after a decade in Iraq and Afghanistan, the specter of American disengagement from the world remains severely overstated.
Since the American National Election Studies first asked Americans in 1956 whether they thought the country would be better off if it didn't concern itself with problems in other parts of the world, isolationists have always been outnumbered by at least 2 to 1, and among Americans with at least a high school diploma, the gap is even starker, with isolationists being outnumbered on average by 4 to 1.
To be sure, when economic conditions sour, or when foreign policy misadventures mount, public support for an outward-looking foreign policy dips, but the public's foreign policy mood has been remarkably stable.
Indeed, my own research done with colleagues has found that isolationism is still very much a dirty word in American politics. When we present Americans with their scores from the standard questions political scientists use to measure foreign policy attitudes, many of our isolationists dispute the results, taking pains to protest that they are, as one participant put it, ''in no way, shape or form an isolationist.''
JOSHUA KERTZER Columbus, Ohio, March 28, 2012
The writer is a Ph.D. candidate in political science at Ohio State University.
Mr. Gottlieb writes, ''America's role in the world on big issues of war and peace can often be pared down to a simpler calculation: whether the American people deem foreign threats worth the risk of overseas military entanglements.'' I submit it is time for a different calculation.
As Leo Tolstoy made clear in ''War and Peace,'' wars invariably lead to unintended consequences. United States forces ousted Saddam Hussein only to leave behind an autocratic ruler and a society fractured by religious and ethnic violence. In Libya, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's dictatorship has been replaced by continuing tribal rivalries and revenge killings. We rid Afghanistan of Al Qaeda but it is flourishing elsewhere, and the Afghan people show increasing anger at our presence. Meanwhile the number of dead, injured and displaced people resulting from our military interventions can hardly be estimated.
It is time to ask whether any objective is worth the enormous human suffering that modern warfare involves and to seek a more rational method of dealing with our adversaries before it is too late.
RACHELLE MARSHALL Mill Valley, Calif., March 28, 2012
The Writer Responds
I would like to thank the responders for their engaging insights. The letters may be placed into two categories: those that expect too much of America's foreign policy decision-making system, and those that expect too little of America's role in the world.
In the first category, Mr. Feldman and Mr. Goode assert that smarter foreign policy can be found through improved policy making -- presidential deference to Congress; acting ''when, and only when,'' certain metrics are met; and so on.
This all sounds reasonable in the calm light of day, but in moments of strategic uncertainty decision making becomes far less cohesive, and presidential power (for better or worse) assumes the mantle of leadership.
On the broader question of America's global role, Mr. Haynes accurately points out that nonmilitary initiatives are sorely needed. But threats do exist, such as terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, that cannot be solved by soft power alone.
Lastly, Mr. Barry's invocation of John Quincy Adams is most welcome, as he is the standard-bearer of America's prudent unilateralism. But do his words hold true as much today, in an age of American global power, as they did in 1821?
Winston Churchill cautioned, ''The price of greatness is responsibility.'' And for more than a century, each of America's attempts to return to a more modest role in the world has been interrupted by gathering global dangers.
It is precisely the tension between the embedded wisdom of John Quincy Adams and the practical realities of global leadership that makes America's role in the world so unique -- troubling, inconsistent and invaluable.
STUART GOTTLIEB New York, March 30, 2012

GRAPHIC:  DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDRE DA LOBA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); AL-QAEDA (87%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (87%); WORLD WAR II (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); COLD WAR (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); WRITERS (73%); WORLD WAR I (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (95%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



19 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Tax Fantasy

 BODY:
Congressman Paul Ryan, the author of the House Republican budget, is not the first politician to go long on promises and short on details. But his budget, which passed the House last week with no Democratic votes, takes untruth in taxes to a new level. 
Mr. Ryan claims that he can drastically cut income tax rates without adding to the deficit, but he hasn't specified how he would make up the lost revenue, an estimated $4.6 trillion over 10 years. Instead, he has said he would end or reduce unnamed deductions, exemptions and loopholes and defended this dodge by saying that he first wants to build consensus for the concept of pairing lower rates with fewer write-offs. That's already a mainstay of many tax reform plans.
The problem is that politicians' most cherished constituencies are big recipients of the most cherished tax breaks -- including the exclusion for employer-provided health insurance; deductions for mortgage interest, state and local taxes and charitable donations; tax deferral for retirement savings; and special low taxes on investment income. With some 70 percent of an annual $1.1 trillion in tax breaks flowing to the top 20 percent of taxpayers, and 20 percent going to the middle rung, politicians are loath to champion the end of specific tax breaks.
Another problem is that ending tax breaks would not end the need for government to help with many of the activities subsidized by the tax code, like employee health insurance and retirement savings. Tax subsidies may not be the most efficient or fairest way to support social and economic goals, but there is a need for public efforts to help achieve many of their aims.
The question is how much can reasonably be saved by ending or reducing tax breaks. A new analysis by the Congressional Research Service puts the savings at $100 billion to $150 billion a year. The aggressive deficit reduction plan by the Bipartisan Policy Center, a Washington-based think tank, would generate $3.5 trillion in savings to 2020. A proposal by President Obama, scorned by Republicans, would raise $584 billion in 10 years by capping deductions for high-income taxpayers.
The upshot is that Mr. Ryan will never come up with a workable way to pay for his $4.6 trillion tax cut. And even if he found substantial offsets, it would be obscene to use the money to lower tax rates for rich taxpayers when the nation is starved for investment in jobs, education and infrastructure. What's needed is a realistic approach, starting with letting the high-end Bush era tax cuts expire at the end of this year and closing blatant loopholes, including the unconscionably low tax rate for private equity partners. Raising taxes on the rich is not a cure-all, but there will never be consensus for broad reform without first ending the lavish tax breaks at the top. Realism also requires new tax sources, including a financial transactions tax. But being realistic is not Mr. Ryan's style.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAX REFORM (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (76%); INCOME TAX (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); CHARITIES (67%); CHARITABLE GIVING (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (67%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



20 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: Where Have All the Neurotics Gone?

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY. 
A science reporter for The New York Times focusing on behavioral topics.

 BODY:
SOME cultural archetypes leave the stage with a flourish, or at least some foot stomping. All those pith-helmeted colonialists, absinthe-addled poets and hippie gurus founding 1970s utopias: They made some noise, if not always much sense, before being swallowed by history.
Yet one modern American type is slipping into the past without a rattle or even its familiar whimper -- the neurotic.
For a generation of postwar middle-class Americans, being neurotic meant something more than merely being anxious, and something other than exhibiting the hysteria or other disabling mood problems for which Freud used the term. It meant being interesting (if sometimes exasperating) at a time when psychoanalysis reigned in intellectual circles and Woody Allen reigned in movie houses.
That it means little now, to most Americans, is evidence of how strongly language drives the perception of mental struggle, both its sources and its remedies. In recent years psychiatrists have developed a more specialized medical vocabulary to describe anxiety, the core component of neurosis, and as a result the public has gained a greater appreciation of its many dimensions. But in the process we've lost entirely the romance of neurosis, as well as its physical embodiment -- a restless, grumbling, needy presence that once functioned in the collective mind as an early warning system, an inner voice that hedged against excessive optimism. 
In today's era of exquisite confusion -- political, economic and otherwise -- the neurotic would be a welcome guest, nervous company for nervous days, always ready to provide doses of that most potent vaccine against gloominess: wisecracking, urbane gloominess.
''I still use the term in my practice once in a while but it doesn't really say much,'' said Dr. Barbara L. Milrod, a professor of psychiatry at Weill Cornell Medical College. ''We now have far more useful and specific ways of describing maladaptive behavior.''
Some of the reasons that ''neurotic'' has fallen out of colloquial usage are obvious. Freudian analysis lost its hold on the common consciousness, as well as in psychiatry, and some of Freud's language lost its power. And scientists working to define mental disorders began to slice neurosis into ever finer pieces, like panic disorder, social anxiety and obsessive-compulsive disorder -- all evocative terms that percolated up into common usage, not to mention into online user groups, rock lyrics and TV shows.
In 1994, after years of nasty debate with psychoanalysts, doctors assembling the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, psychiatry's encyclopedia of mental disorders, officially dropped the word neurosis from the book.
''The DSM is the lingua franca of psychiatry, and given what we know today the term feels old-fashioned and quaint,'' said Dr. Michael First, a research psychiatrist at Columbia and a former editor of the manual. ''With the general decline of value of Freud in our society, it is ultimately anachronistic.''
Still, the desire for precision and the decline of Freudian thinking do not entirely explain the disappearance of the neurotic. Psychiatrists don't ultimately shape the language we use, after all -- we all do -- and neurosis has at least as much going for it as other Freudian keepers, like ego and id.
The answer may reside in the one area of social science where the spirit of the neurotic is still alive and well: research psychology.
''Neuroticism'' is one of the ''dimensions'' of the so-called five-factor model of personality, the most studied measure in the field (other dimensions include conscientiousness and openness). It is rated using a simple questionnaire, in which people respond to statements like ''I get irritated easily,'' ''I worry about things'' and ''I get stressed out easily.'' Decades of research suggest that scores on those measures are relatively stable through life, and at least some of the differences in factors among people are rooted in genetic inheritance.
Over all, scores on those kinds of questionnaires have not changed much in adults in the United States since the 1950s. But recent studies have found that, among college students, neuroticism levels have increased by as much as 20 percent over the same period.
Are young people today really more anxious and troubled -- more neurotic -- than their parents were at the same age? Many parents undoubtedly think so (college was a long time ago), and some researchers do, too.
But another way to read those numbers is not as a measure of mental makeup but of cultural change. People of all ages today, and most especially young people, are awash in self-confession, not only in the reality-show of pop culture but in the increasingly public availability of almost every waking thought, through Facebook, Twitter and other social media.
If chronic Facebook or Twitter posting is not an exercise in neurosis, then nothing is.
''I think some of the qualities we once attributed to neurotics have simply been normalized,'' said Peter N. Stearns, a historian at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., and author of the forthcoming book ''Satisfaction Not Guaranteed: Dilemmas of Progress in Modern Society.'' ''I don't have hard evidence for this, but just look around and observe how we live. We've become so accustomed to people with continual worries and fears that it's made the category obsolete.''
THE classic neurotic is still with us, all right -- but with a lot more company, and everyone trying to talk over one another. ''Put it this way,'' Dr. Milrod said. ''These are ridiculous times, and if it all makes sense to you, there's probably something wrong.''
All the more reason to preserve a word that expands the definition of normal in the best American tradition and restores to anxiety its soul. It preserves privacy, for one thing, when it might be very important to do so. Saying ''she's neurotic'' implies a difficult, self-conscious personality without giving a precise medical label. It's closer to ''stressed out'' than it is to ''disturbed'' and implies a condition that waxes and wanes as a part of dealing with daily life.
''Sometimes vagueness has its virtues, and 'neurotic' sounds more garden-variety troubled than really troubled,'' Dr. First said. ''There's a value in communicating that, a convenience, and neurotic is more descriptive of a personality than of symptoms -- it's an adjective describing how a person is, divorced from medical symptoms.''
Vagueness may also have some value clinically, especially in an area as poorly understood as mental health. In a series of books, including the forthcoming ''The Rise and Fall of the Nervous Breakdown -- and How Everyone Became Depressed,'' the historian Edward Shorter has argued that in some cases, like splitting anxiety disorders from depression, precision backfires. Sadness and worry are intimate partners for many people who visit psychiatrists, and the drugs known as antidepressants are widely prescribed for anxiety as well.
The term neurosis encompasses both, and in fact predates Freud by a century. It originally referred to a problem of the nerves, not the mind, in direct contrast to ''psychosis,'' which implies a break in logical thinking of the sort characteristic of schizophrenia.
''We've lost this view of nervous illness as an illness of the whole body, and now call it a mood disorder,'' Dr. Shorter said. ''And sad to say, telling people they have a mood disorder misleads them. They think it's all in their head, when in fact they feel it in their body; they're fatigued, they have these somatic aches and pains, the pit in the stomach -- it's experienced in the whole body.''
In the original late-18th-century formulation, neurosis also was free of any genetic connection. ''The knowledge that someone was 'nervously ill' was not necessarily a clap of doom for subsequent generations in the way that news of a family member being 'mentally ill' was,'' Dr. Shorter wrote in ''From Paralysis to Fatigue,'' a history of psychosomatic illness. ''Daughters of mentally ill parents might not make good marriages, the prospective in-laws all dreading the prospect of inherited insanity; those of nervously ill parents would find their prospects less impaired.''
Honestly now, who wouldn't jump at the chance to have their prospects less impaired? It amounts to one more vote for ''neurosis'' as a state of mind to which we can reliably retreat in strange times -- if not in psychiatric treatment, at least among friends and colleagues.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY HAN HOOGERBRUGGE)(SR1
 SR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); PSYCHIATRY (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (88%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); OBSESSIVE COMPULSIVE DISORDER (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (62%); VACCINES (52%); POP & ROCK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



21 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: Islamist Group Breaks Pledge In Egypt Race

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Mayy El Sheikh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CAIRO -- The Muslim Brotherhood nominated its chief strategist and financier Khairat el-Shater on Saturday as its candidate to become Egypt's first president since Hosni Mubarak, breaking a pledge not to seek the top office and a monopoly on power.
Mr. Shater, 62, a millionaire business tycoon, was a political prisoner until just a year ago. Because of the Brotherhood's unrivaled grass-roots organization and popular appeal, he is now a presidential front-runner.
He is being nominated at a moment of escalating tension between the Brotherhood and Egypt's military rulers. The Brotherhood, an Islamist group outlawed under Mr. Mubarak, already dominates the Parliament and the assembly writing a new Constitution. It is now demanding to replace the military-led cabinet and is tussling with the military council over questions like the degree of civilian oversight of the military under the new charter.
His candidacy is likely to unnerve the West and has already outraged Egyptian liberals, who wonder what other pledges of moderation the Brotherhood may abandon. 
The Brotherhood's entry into the race also turns the election into a debate over the future of the Islamist political movement that is sure to resonate in the region. Mr. Shater faces Islamist rivals to his left and right -- one a more liberal former Brotherhood leader, the other an ultraconservative Salafist. Indeed, the Brotherhood may have entered the race in part because a strong showing by either rival could undercut the group's authority as the predominant voice of Islam in Egyptian politics.
Mr. Shater is considered a conservative but a pragmatist. He has argued that Islam demands tolerance and democracy, has championed free trade and open markets and has guided the Brotherhood through its first public commitment to uphold the peace agreement with Israel.
But he also argues for an explicitly Islamic government. And while some in the group have argued that it should tolerate diverse approaches to Islamist politics from its own members, he has helped enforce the authority of the Brotherhood's executive committee over its members, stirring allegations from liberals that it is undemocratic.
Doubts about the strength of the Brotherhood's commitment to its promises raise particular concerns in the United States and Israel, which considered the Mubarak government's commitment to the peace agreement a linchpin of regional stability.
An Israeli official, speaking on condition of anonymity, declined to comment specifically on Mr. Shater, but called the nomination worrisome. ''Obviously this is not good news,'' the official said. ''The Muslim Brotherhood is no friend of Israel's. They do not wish us well.'' The official added: ''The big question will be how pragmatic they will be once in power. It could go in either direction.''
In Washington, the State Department declined to comment. But many American officials who have met with Mr. Shater on visits to Cairo, including top State Department officials and Congressional delegations, have praised his moderation, business savvy and effectiveness.
At a news conference announcing the nomination, officials of the Brotherhood and its political arm insisted they were forced to offer a candidate because of the urgent needs left by more than a year of military-led transitional government. They alluded to a mounting economic crisis as well as unspecified ''threats to the revolution.''
''We decided that Egypt now needs a candidate from us to bear this responsibility,'' said Mohamed el-Morsi, president the Brotherhood's Freedom and Justice Party. ''We have no desire at all to monopolize power.''
Mr. Shater was not present at the news conference. Instead, the Brotherhood's supreme guide, Mohamed Badie, read a letter from Mr. Shater resigning his post as deputy supreme guide to run for president. ''Although I never thought of occupying any executive position in the state or running for it, I can't help but comply with the decision of the group,'' Mr. Shater wrote, according to Mr. Badie.
The Brotherhood, an 84-year-old religious and anticolonialist movement that became the wellspring of Islamist ideologies around the world, was outlawed but intermittently tolerated under Mr. Mubarak, and most of its senior leaders have spent time in prison.
Mr. Shater was a favorite target because of his role as a major donor and financial manager for the group, as well as an increasingly influential strategist; he spent a total of about 12 years behind bars, more than any other Brotherhood leader. He was released last year on a suspended sentence, but his conviction was not overturned, leaving him with a record that would appear to bar him from running for office. But the Brotherhood leaders said they did not expect any legal obstacles, suggesting a deal was in the works.
After the ouster of Mr. Mubarak, it was Mr. Shater who explained to the news media that the Brotherhood had pledged not to field a presidential candidate, to avoid repeating the experience of the short-lived Islamist victory in the 1991 Algerian elections, which elicited a military crackdown and the start of a decade-long civil war.
''When Islamists there reached power quickly,'' Mr. Shater said then, ''the military establishment turned against them.''
On Saturday some fellow Islamists criticized the Brotherhood for abandoning its pledge. Kamal El Helbawy, an ex-spokesman for the group in Europe, resigned, saying that the Brotherhood looked like ''liars'' and that its political mission had taken precedence over the religious one.
Abdel Rahman Ayyash, a former member who used to work closely with Mr. Shater, accused him of merely seeking political power. ''For the first time since I was a Muslim Brother, I'm certain of bad intentions,'' he said.
Mr. Shater was considered a hero of Brotherhood reformers. He helped chart the group's steps into electoral democracy, both in professional associations and as the only real opposition in the Mubarak-dominated Parliament. And he led the creation of the Brotherhood's Web sites in Arabic and English, spawning a generation of bloggers.
In prison and out, Mr. Shater served as the Brotherhood's chief liaison for negotiations or other exchanges with the Mubarak security services, and since Mr. Mubarak's ouster he has continued that role with the generals.
Since the ouster of Mr. Mubarak, however, many younger and reform-minded members have said they have grown disappointed with Mr. Shater. They say he has enforced an insular and hierarchical culture left over from the group's decades underground. Mr. Shater led a push to bar Brotherhood members from dissenting from the political stands of its Freedom and Justice Party, and he led the expulsion of those who sought less conservative Islamist politics.
One of those Mr. Shater helped expel is now among the other front-runners in the presidential campaign, Abdel Moneim Aboul Fotouh, a former senior leader of the Brotherhood and a liberal reformer within the group. Mr. Aboul Fotouh was expelled for defying the Brotherhood's decision, now reversed, not to allow any of its members to run for president. He has continued to try to rally Brotherhood members and Islamists, as well as more liberal and secular Egyptians, to his banner.
He argues that no one has a monopoly on the application of Islam to political life, so the Islamist movement should have room for liberals and leftists as well as conservatives.
The Brotherhood has now dropped the pledge that Mr. Aboul Fotouh was expelled for violating, but the group has continued to oppose his candidacy because of his insubordination, even threatening to expel members who support him.
On the other side, Mr. Shater faces competition from an ultraconservative populist, Hazem Salah Abu Ismail, who has built a national following with an old-school Islamist platform, including vigorous attacks on Israel and the West, as well as an emphasis on restoring strict Islamic law. His success would seriously discredit the Brotherhood's efforts to portray Egypt's Islamists as moderate and unthreatening.
But Mr. Badie, the supreme guide, warned Mr. Shater's opponents to watch out, reminding them that Mr. Shater's prayers in prison for the end of the Mubarak government were answered. ''To all those who will slander engineer Khairat el-Shater, his prayers against those who slander him are answered -- literally by the way,'' Mr. Badie said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Muslim Brotherhood nominated its longtime strategist Khairat el-Shater in the Egyptian presidential election. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); POLITICS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%) EGYPT (97%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



22 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Online Features Expanded

BYLINE: By VICKIE ELMER

 BODY:
AS buyers begin searching for mortgages this spring, they may notice that many of the major online shopping sites have been adding new user-friendly features. And if they look hard enough, they will also find another new service joining the crowd -- this one from a man who calls himself the ''mortgage professor.''
Jack M. Guttentag, who holds a Ph.D. in economics, has been involved in the mortgage industry for decades, as a professor and researcher in international banking at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania since 1969, and as consultant to Freddie Mac and the World Bank, to name a few. He has written a weekly column under the ''Mortgage Professor'' name for 12 years, and even started a group called the Upfront Mortgage Brokers Association, which encourages transparency on fees. 
In February, on his Mortgage Professor Web site, Dr. Guttentag and two partners started a service that helps to match buyers and lenders. ''You can talk to people all you like and it often has minimal impact,'' he said, ''but if you show them a better way to do it better, it carries much better clout.''
Dr. Guttentag will be competing with the likes of better-established organizations, like LendingTree, Zillow Mortgage Marketplace and Bankrate.com. These so-called mortgage marketplaces have become increasingly popular as a way for borrowers to research loan rates and options. LendingTree, for example, says it has facilitated over 30 million loan requests and $214 billion in closed loan transactions since its inception 15 years ago. And all of the 1,200 mortgage-related Web sites tracked by Experian Hitwise attracted 126 million visitors in February, up 26 percent from a year ago.
The larger sites offer a mix of consumer mortgage calculators and other tools, along with rate quotes or match-ups with one or more of the hundreds of participating lenders. Many are adding other features and functions to stay more competitive.
Zillow Mortgage Marketplace has been focused on mobile applications, and the early ones have seen ''tremendous usage,'' said Erin Lantz, the director of the marketplace. Its mobile mortgage app for the iPhone, which lets borrowers check rates and loan quotes, has been downloaded more than two million times since June. In February it began offering a version for Android phones.
LendingTree, meanwhile, plans to redesign its Web site in the next three months, and added several features, including one called ''The Best Loan for Life.'' It will evaluate homeowners' current loans against new offerings from lenders signed up with LendingTree to see if it would be worthwhile to refinance. In June, site users will be able to add their own information -- that is, rates and terms from other lenders, not just those associated with LendingTree. This will allow them to do a side-by-side analysis ''and see which one is better,'' said Doug Lebda, the founder.At Bankrate.com, anyone who wants to talk to a mortgage banker can now access ''a call center interface'' and eventually connect with a person, said Bruce Zanca, a spokesman. Not all the mortgage lenders have signed on, he said.
The Mortgage Professor's service is tiny by comparison: only six mortgage companies have signed up so far. But Dr. Guttentag said he hoped to teach the bigger shopping sites a few lessons. His mortgage shopping site consists of what he calls ''certified network lenders,'' each of which must adhere to certain standards and post prices in real time. Borrowers may shop anonymously until they select a lender, which saves them from being bombarded with information.
At various points in the mortgage-shopping process, borrowers are guided through ''decision support,'' which includes access to brief informational articles and question-and-answer features.
Dr. Guttentag is already considering upgrades. ''We'll have a special section on niche products,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (85%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); WEB SITES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SMARTPHONES (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: TREE.COM INC (85%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); ZILLOW INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%)

TICKER: TREE (NASDAQ) (85%); Z (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (85%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



23 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: The Real Oil Shock

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON. 
Adam Davidson is a co-founder of NPR's ''Planet Money,'' a podcast and blog.

 BODY:
Like a lot of carless New Yorkers, I am generally confused by bursts of populist outrage over high gas prices. But I have always assumed that the anger is genuine -- that hard-working Americans, who already spend a lot on gas, are thrown into turmoil when they have to spend even more. After all, 63 percent of Americans insist that these price increases have caused them some financial hardship.
But amid the recent mania over prices hitting $4 a gallon, I decided to figure out whether this fury is economically rational. So I took a look at data from the Census Bureau, which conducts a quarterly survey of American spending habits. During these last few years of historically high oil prices, Americans spent about $40 a week, or $2,000 a year, on gas. That's around 5 percent of our overall spending. It's less than half of what we spend on restaurants and entertainment. 
High gas prices must be forcing Americans to cut back in other ways, right? That's what the economists Lutz Kilian at the University of Michigan and Paul Edelstein of the consulting firm IHS Global Insight wondered. They looked at personal spending habits during periods of high energy prices and discovered that ''somewhat surprisingly, there is no significant decline in total expenditures on recreation,'' which was one place they expected to find frugality. More specifically, rising gas prices had ''no significant effect on the consumption of movies, bowling and billiard[s], casino gambling and only insignificant declines for recreational camps, sightseeing, spectator sports and spectator amusements.'' Some people bought fewer lottery tickets, they told me.
In other words, Americans may protest loudly, but their economic behavior indicates a remarkable indifference to the price of oil. In Europe, where taxes keep gas prices well above $5 a gallon, citizens are more likely to take public transportation and live near the center of town. The streets are filled with mopeds and tiny cars. The United States, on the other hand, barely exerts the minimum effort expected of a gas-phobic society: its enthusiasm for car pooling, enhanced public transportation and fuel-efficient vehicles remains relatively low. The average American even spends more gas money on social and recreational trips (about $13 a week, on average) than on their commutes to and from work (around $8). If gas prices truly damage the quality of our lives, we have done a remarkable job of hiding it.
Yet they attract so much attention for other very rational reasons. First, we're still adjusting to a world of volatile gas prices. From World War II to the mid-1970s, the overall U.S. economy was largely insulated from the rest of the world. Our exports and imports were a small part of most businesses, and gas prices, which were carefully managed by complex government controls, barely budged. (In inflation-adjusted terms, they actually fell.) As the massive cars of the time attest, Americans didn't need to think about the global supply or demand of oil. Even after the oil shocks in the 1970s, prices went up by what now seems like a trivial amount.
While sustained high gas prices would certainly produce some turmoil, so would potential spikes in countless other globally traded commodities. But there's a reason populist outcries don't start around soybean prices or magnesium spikes. Oil is the only volatile commodity that most Americans deal with directly: we are buffered from most other price swings by our relative wealth. Unlike people in poor countries, consumers here don't generally buy raw commodity foods; we buy our meals processed or prepared. There's about a nickel's worth of corn in each box of Corn Flakes, but Kellogg's doesn't adjust the price of its cereal every hour to follow global supply and demand. (Though it has raised the price slowly over time to reflect the rising price of corn.) With most goods, the commodity price has even less impact on cost. ''When people buy a phone,'' Kilian says, ''they don't buy the copper that makes the wiring.''
With gas, though, hurtling prices are unavoidable. Every day, U.S. drivers pay a price determined by forces all over the world that are hard to understand and harder for the United States to control. Even if we invested in better refineries and exploited every possible energy source, from the Keystone pipeline to the Alaskan wilderness, the impact could be minimal. It could eventually lower prices at the pump -- but only if nothing else affects them, like OPEC lowering its production to drive prices back up again. The price of oil is, of course, affected by hundreds of interrelated factors.
''The folks on the right say: 'Drill here! Drill, drill, drill!' But that will not impact the global price of oil,'' says Gal Luft, co-director of the Institute for the Analysis of Global Security. ''How do I know? Because we had this great experiment for seven years where our dependence on oil declined from 60 percent to 45 percent. We import much less percentage-wise than we did 10 years ago. What happened to the price of oil? It doubled.'' And the left, Luft says, isn't offering any better solution. ''When they talk about solar and wind and things like that, it's like applying Prozac to a cancer patient,'' he says. ''It has nothing to do with the problem.''
Many analysts I've spoken with suggest that oil prices should fall fairly soon. This will be welcome news to the less-fortunate American families who are not impervious to the price at the pump and to anyone who claims to be pinching pennies because of gas. But as unpopular as it may sound, the best possible future for most Americans may involve much higher gas prices. As billions of people, throughout the world, enter the middle class in the coming decades, there will be an enormous increase in the demand for gas. This, along with rising environmental considerations, is likely to send the prices far higher than they are today. But at that point, we will all probably be driving solar-powered hovercars anyway.
Deep thoughts this week:
1. Americans are surprisingly immune to gas prices.
2. But the U.S. economy isn't accustomed to real price volatility.
3. Or a market it has little control over.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER OUMANSKI) (MM12)
 GRAPHICS: HEY, BIG SPENDER: Here's how gas expenditures compare with those that grab fewer headlines. (Numbers denote percentage of total spending per average American.) (MM14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); CENSUS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (67%); GAMING (64%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (61%); CASINOS (52%); WORLD WAR II (50%); EXPORT TRADE (50%); LOTTERIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



24 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Hardcover Nonfiction: Sunday, April 1st 2012

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the April 1, 2012 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending March 17, 2012. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Hardcover NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList1111AMERICAN SNIPER, by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice. (Morrow/HarperCollins, $26.99.) A member of the Navy SEALs discusses his battlefield experiences. 2425KILLING LINCOLN, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt, $28.) The heart-stopping events surrounding the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 3*23THE POWER OF HABIT, by Charles Duhigg. (Random House, $28.) A Times reporter&#8217;s account of the science behind how we form, and break, habits. 4321STEVE JOBS, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon &#38; Schuster, $35.) A biography of the recently deceased entrepreneur. 51BETTER THAN NORMAL, by Dale Archer. (Crown Archetype, $25.) A psychiatrist redefines what constitutes mental health. &#8224;61THE RIGHTEOUS MIND, by Jonathan Haidt. (Pantheon, $28.95.) A psychologist argues that people make decisions based on moral intuitions, which makes them attack opponents self-righteously. &#8224;7670UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House, $27.) An Olympic runner&#39;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 858QUIET, by Susan Cain. (Crown, $26.) Introverts &#8212; one-third of the population &#8212; are undervalued in American society. 986BRINGING UP B&#201;B&#201;, by Pamela Druckerman. (Penguin Press, $25.95.) An American mother discovers the principles of French parenting. 10*921THINKING, FAST AND SLOW, by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux, $30.) The winner of the Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices in business and personal life and when we can and cannot trust our intuitions. 1179AMERITOPIA, by Mark R. Levin. (Threshold Editions, $26.99.) A talk-show host warns that Americans must choose between utopianism and liberty. 12*116BEHIND THE BEAUTIFUL FOREVERS, by Katherine Boo. (Random House, $27.) A journalist reports on families striving for better lives in a Mumbai slum. 13102REVELATIONS, by Elaine Pagels. (Viking, $27.95.) A history of the Book of Revelation explores its original context and its meaning. 14122FULL SERVICE, by Scotty Bowers with Lionel Friedberg. (Grove, $25.) A gossipy account of the sex lives of the stars during Hollywood&#8217;s golden age. 15145UNORTHODOX, by Deborah Feldman. (Simon &#38; Schuster, $23.) A woman breaks free of the Satmar Hasidic community in Brooklyn in which she was raised.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
16. ABUNDANCE, by Peter H. Diamandis and Steven Kotler. (Free Press)
17. THAT WOMAN, by Anne Sebba. (St. Martin&#8217;s)
18. HILARITY ENSUES, by Tucker Max. (Blue Heeler Books)
19. COMING APART, by Charles Murray. (Crown Forum)
20. A STOLEN LIFE, by Jaycee Dugard. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
21. TO SELENA, WITH LOVE, by Chris Perez. (Celebra)
22. HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson)
23. INDIVISIBLE, by James Robison and Jay W. Richards. (FaithWords)
24. HOUSE OF STONE, by Anthony Shadid. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)
25. THROUGH MY EYES, by Tim Tebow with Nathan Whitaker. (HarperCollins)
26. WHEN I WAS A CHILD I READ BOOKS, by Marilynne Robinson. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux)
27. ISLAND OF VICE, by Richard Zacks. (Doubleday)
28. RIGHTEOUS INDIGNATION, by Andrew Breitbart. (Grand Central)
29. ONCE UPON A SECRET, by Mimi Alford. (Random House)
30. WHY BE HAPPY WHEN YOU COULD BE NORMAL?, by Jeanette Winterson. (Grove/Atlantic)
31. ENEMIES, by Tim Weiner. (Random House)
32. IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown)
33. DON&#39;T PUT ME IN, COACH, by Mark Titus. (Doubleday)
34. OUTLAW PLATOON, by Sean Parnell with John R. Bruning. (Morrow)
35. TURING&#39;S CATHEDRAL, by George Dyson. (Pantheon)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BOOK SALES (78%); WRITERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); JOURNALISM (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); RETAILERS (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); FAMILY (69%); WORLD WAR II (67%); MENTAL HEALTH (64%); PARENTING (63%); RUNNING (63%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



25 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; APP CITY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Where Would You Live If Life Were an App?

BYLINE: By JOSHUA BRUSTEIN

 BODY:
APP Upwardly Mobile
PLATFORM Android, Web
PRICE Free
I am as familiar as any New Yorker with the art of grousing about where I'll move to once the city becomes too stressful. And like many people, I quickly fall back on old tropes about my enthusiasm for San Francisco and my disdain for Los Angeles. Now, a new tool developed by the Sunlight Foundation allows for a level of analytical rigor that has been missing from this conversation. 
Upwardly Mobile is a Web service that compares the economic opportunities in different cities based on a user's occupation and other priorities. The service is the second in a series of apps that the foundation, which focuses on government transparency, is producing to show what developers can do when the government makes data available in usable formats.
Upwardly Mobile is available as an Android app. It can also be accessed as a mobile-optimized Web site via the browser of any smartphone or computer, at upwardly.us.
Tap in your ZIP code, choose your professional field and specific occupation, and check the boxes of the quality-of-life issues that you think are important -- salary, cost of child care and the prices of food, gas and housing. The app then spits out a list of cities that might be better matches for you than your current one.
Clicking on any city lets you compare it on factors like economics and quality of life with where you are, complete with statistics and attractive graphics.
Depending on how I described myself, Upwardly Mobile's list was topped by one of two of the country's other big media towns, Los Angeles or Atlanta. No surprise there. But also coming up high were Kansas City and Harrisonburg, Va., a small city in the Shenandoah River Valley, where a good deal of the economic activity consists of poultry processing.
While salaries in my field -- arts, design, entertainment, sports and media -- are not as high in Harrisonburg, they have been rising over the past several years. And housing, food and recreation are all significantly cheaper than they are in New York.
Coincidentally, I have been to Harrisonburg several times because my younger brother works as a computer programmer for Rosetta Stone, which has its headquarters there. But I can say with a good deal of confidence that there are many factors that Upwardly Mobile's survey has not taken into account.
A few simple noneconomic questions would have shortened my list considerably: Do you mind driving? Do you enjoy being completely disconnected from popular culture? How much do you value variety in your restaurant choices? (Yes, no and a lot. Goodbye, Harrisonburg.)
Upwardly Mobile gives an interesting perspective on an important question. But because it sticks so closely to the economic reasons to choose a place to live, it can feel a bit hollow. Staff members at the Sunlight Foundation said they looked into adding other variables, like walkability, but restricted time and resources won out. They said they might revisit Upwardly Mobile, depending on the initial response.
Until then, I'm staying put.
Have a favorite New York City app? Send tips via e-mail to appcity@nytimes.com or via Twitter to @joshuabrustein.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH HITZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (79%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (79%); FOOD PRICES (78%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); POULTRY (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); POULTRY PROCESSING (69%); CHILD CARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



26 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2490 words

HEADLINE: Putting In Their 2 Cents

BYLINE: By SONI SANGHA; Luis Vieira contributed reporting from Porto Alegre, Brazil.

 BODY:
ON a weeknight in mid-March, a room in the Park Slope Armory Y.M.C.A. that is frequently used for children's birthday parties was packed with tables draped in pale yellow, 99-cent-store, vinyl coverings and topped with propped-up tri-fold poster boards.
About 100 people bumped and jostled their way to the snack table lined with bowls of popcorn and pretzels. Eager presenters button-holed passers-by. It looked like a middle-school science fair. But the buzz in the room wasn't over homemade solar system models or photosynthesis; it was the sound of revolutionary civics in action.
The event in Brooklyn was part of something called participatory budgeting, in which constituents in four City Council districts were given control over a slice of their council members' discretionary budgets -- $1 million in each district. In a process that began in October, they proposed projects, researched their viability and ran them by city agencies. This week, voters will finish choosing which of the proposals can move forward. Results are expected to be released this week. 
When Keith Christiansen volunteered to take part, he didn't expect to become the patron saint of Public School 124 bathrooms in Park Slope. Yet, whenever someone lingered near his display at the Armory, Mr. Christiansen pounced, beginning a fiery pitch about how one little vote might fix an architectural wrong that left children with little privacy in the school's restrooms. The backdrop to his argument: photographs of toilets in stalls barely wider than the toilets themselves, where a child and a door cannot co-exist. The solution, apparently, was to omit the doors.
Under a proposal that Mr. Christiansen is championing, the girls' bathrooms would be adjusted to include stall doors, and missing tile in the boys' bathroom would be replaced, all at a cost of $150,000.
''I can't believe that this has to be on the ballot,'' Mr. Christiansen said.
This is only the second time that participatory budgeting, originally developed in Brazil, has been tried in the United States, and the first time in New York City, said Josh Lerner, executive director of the Participatory Budgeting Project, a nonprofit organization. Whether it will become entrenched here is unclear. But what is known is that over the past six months, 250 regular New Yorkers jumped into the trenches and dirtied their hands with democracy. The point of the experiment in October was to counter people's cynical view of government by inviting them to participate in the very process they mistrust. To some extent, it worked.
Of the more than a dozen participants interviewed for this article, all said the process had emboldened them to stay involved in their communities and to continue pushing their representatives to work on the projects they thought would benefit their neighborhoods. Still, skepticism runs deep. Some said they were concerned that they would ultimately be defeated by the powers that be.
''So far, I love feeling like we have some say in what is done,'' said Maggie Tobin, a participant from Kensington, Brooklyn, in Council District 39. But as the ideas pass to the city agencies involved, she said, ''I find myself already being distrustful.''
PARTICIPATORY budgeting was created in 1989, when the city government in Porto Alegre, Brazil, responded to a call by civic groups for more input into government decisions. Used as a way to introduce transparency and restore faith in the system, it involved residents who were on the fringes of the democratic process, like poor people. Over the years, the residents were able to build clinics and develop sewage systems in villages.
In 2004, the government leadership shifted, and local experts say that fewer people are taking part and that more than 1,000 approved projects have been stalled. Nonetheless, the practice continues in Porto Alegre and has expanded to about 300 cities in Brazil and elsewhere.
''Despite its limitations, there are strong elements that can contribute to the American society -- particularly because there is a crisis and the debate about distribution of wealth is on the agenda,'' said Adalmir Antonio Marquetti, a professor of economics at Pontifical Catholic University of Rio Grande do Sul in Brazil and an authority on participatory budgeting.
Except for an alderman in Chicago who started the process in his district two years ago, politicians haven't exactly been champing at the bit to hand over control of their budgets. But there has been a gentle nudge by the Participatory Budgeting Project to introduce the concept to other cities. It hosted talks in New York City, where the Chicago alderman, Joe Moore, and other experts discussed the process.
Ultimately, Mr. Lerner painted a compelling picture of engaged residents that persuaded four council members to take part: Brad Lander of Brooklyn, who represents Ms. Tobin and Mr. Christiansen; Melissa Mark-Viverito, whose district includes the Upper West Side, East Harlem and Mott Haven in the Bronx; Eric A. Ulrich, who represents the Rockaways in Queens; and Jumaane D. Williams, whose district stretches from East Flatbush to Midwood, Brooklyn.
The proposals gave a clear picture of each district's priorities. In Ms. Mark-Viverito's district, park, school and public-housing improvements were common topics. In Mr. Ulrich's district, beachfront and parks projects dominated. For Mr. Lander's district, schools were a main concern. And in Mr. Williams's area, projects involving security cameras, lighting, youth programs and schools were proposed.
One of the goals of the process was to involve people who weren't already active in politics. That seems to have been at least partially achieved: While some of the participants were affiliated with civic-minded organizations, almost 40 percent said they rarely voted in elections, according to data from the Community Development Project at the Urban Justice Center, an advocacy group that collected information throughout the participatory budget process. About 20 percent of participants had household incomes under $25,000, and more than half were female.
Ms. Tobin, of Kensington, is what some would call a squeaky wheel. After a car accident left a neighborhood boy in a wheelchair and another car crashed into another neighbor's home, she has been lobbying the Transportation Department to put a stop sign at Chester Avenue and Louisa Street, using a barrage of phone calls, pictures and e-mails. She has contacted the department so often, she said, that officials know her by name; she thinks they recognize her by sight, too, since they seem to duck her at community board meetings.
The participants became part of the budget process in different ways. Some heard about it by word of mouth. Others were invited by a civics group or their council members, as in Ms. Tobin's case. ''I feel like Kensington has been overlooked by politicians for many years now,'' she said, adding that her goal was to change that.
Ms. Tobin's stop-sign project wasn't big enough for the budget process: projects had to be able to last at least five years with minimal maintenance, and each proposal had to cost at least $35,000. Ideas for how to spend the money came from seemingly everywhere, not just the people who signed on to participate. There was a Web site that allowed people to submit ideas, and there were neighborhood assemblies, where more proposals were gathered.
At the initial meetings in October, council members and people working with the Participatory Budgeting Project laid out the process for constituents, and from there, some people volunteered to be budget delegates. The delegates broke into smaller committees based on their interests and the scope of the proposals -- transportation, parks, education and more. They spent the next five months looking into every suggestion that came their way.
Ms. Tobin seized the opportunity to address the absence of green space in Kensington. To illustrate, she animatedly explained that about 20 children practiced Mexican folk dancing for hours every week on the sidewalk on her block. Around the corner on low-traffic Sabbath days, Ecuadoreans play soccer in the middle of a street near a synagogue.
One way to increase green space, Ms. Tobin thought, would be to expand a traffic triangle that had recently been created and landscaped at Church Avenue and 35th Street. She proposed making it larger and adding a human sundial, through which a person's shadow will tell time from cities across the world. Not everyone on her streets and sidewalks committee believed that was the best use of public money.
Another group wanted to create a safer way to cross the intersection at Ocean Parkway and Church Avenue, which the group called a deathtrap, saying that the lights change before pedestrians can clear the street.
''It wasn't always about Wi-Fi in the park or rosebuds on every corner,'' Colin Klebanoff of Kensington said, adding that he uses that crosswalk regularly and had nearly been run down more times than he could count. That kicked off a debate over whether the community first needed a place to congregate or a safe way to get to a place to congregate.
''Sometimes the discussions got uncomfortable,'' Ms. Tobin said, adding that she often bit her lip to keep from screaming. ''It seemed like our group was torn between form over function or function over form.''
Though they couldn't always see eye to eye, they united over a common bond: a feeling that government agencies -- in this case, the Transportation Department -- weren't really interested in their ideas.
For Ms. Tobin, that feeling was encapsulated by the department's response to her proposal, which felt like a dismissal, even if it didn't directly turn her down. ''The 35th Street Triangle Public Space Proposal will continue to be developed as local groups work to meet Department of Transportation requirements for pedestrian plazas,'' the department wrote in an e-mail. (Later, it told her that her plan would require an agreement with a nonprofit agency willing to maintain the space and that it also didn't have time to study the feasibility of closing the nearby street before the voting was scheduled.)
At the onset of the participatory budgeting process, Councilman Lander shared Ms. Tobin's concern about dealing with the agencies. But he felt different at the end.
''I understand why people might have found the system bureaucratic or slow to get responses out,'' he said. ''But I found the agencies kind of excited.''
FOR a project to make it onto the ballot, government agencies were supposed to give a thumbs up. Generally, initial ideas were vetted by the delegates through at least one face-to-face meeting with a representative of the appropriate agency. After that, most committees relied on council members' staff to serve as liaisons.
Some delegates wouldn't be swayed from their goals, even if the government agencies were less than enthusiastic. In East Flatbush, a parks committee envisioned a green wonderland for children. It had in mind a series of landscaped areas livening up the streets that neighborhood children use to walk to school. The vision included gardens where students would grow and sell vegetables, some needing greenhouses, vertical walls for plants or pavilions. The plan also involved better use of existing gardens, like the one on the playground next to Public School 152.
When the committee sent the idea to the parks department, it was told that the plan couldn't be financed through the participatory budgeting process, said Susannah Laskaris, who worked on the proposal and who teaches gardening at Brooklyn Botanic Garden. Ms. Laskaris said she was told that some elements of the proposal didn't fall under the parks department's jurisdiction, but that other aspects might be appropriate for alternative sources like Grow NYC, a nonprofit organization dedicated to environmental issues.
Ms. Laskaris and her committee, originally invigorated with a vision, felt defeated. ''Our conversations started to get to the point of, What are we doing this for? Just potholes?'' she said.
They also felt that there were parts of the plan, especially improvements for infrastructure like fencing and a water fountain, that could make an existing garden more useable and that fell within the scope of participatory budgeting, Ms. Laskaris said.
Vickie Karp, a parks department spokeswoman, said the agency had no direct role in the project or authority over it, ''so it's not about our agency per se.''
The group said it believed strongly that its neighborhood needed a proposal like this, and it would not scale back. In the end, Councilman Williams added it to the ballot. Now, Mr. Williams said, his constituents ''understand the hurdles and obstacles they have to get through'' for the project. ''If, as a community, they decide they want to get through them together,'' he added, ''I'm all for that.''
GETTING your council member to sign on is one thing, but swaying voters is another. That is Mr. Christiansen's concern. In a district where schools are everything, he says, he will have to make a leap of faith to trust that his neighbors will look beyond their zoned school in voting for projects. But if he can make that jump, he says, there's no reason others can't.
Mr. Christiansen's original idea was to create a green laboratory and outdoor teaching space at Middle School 88 in Park Slope, where he teaches English. But when he saw the needs at other schools, he pulled his own project from his committee. During the budgeting process, every committee was asked to whittle its proposals to roughly five that would get on the ballot. To get there, Mr. Christiansen and his fellow committee members decided to use need -- which they collectively decided to measure by the percentage of students in the schools receiving free lunches -- as the deciding factor. They also looked for projects at schools that had no advocates on the committee, which is how Mr. Christiansen became the champion for a project at a school in which he had never set foot.
Throughout the process, there was argument and debate, some heated and some healthy. But that is exactly what Mr. Christiansen and other participants said was the most positive part. Agencies and politicians aside, strangers found a way to work together and commit to honoring one another's priorities, while considering the good of their neighborhoods. And that ultimately was the point. ''Maybe I should've fought for the garden at my school and ducked for cover,'' Mr. Christiansen said. ''Now I'm arguing for some complete strangers' toilets.''
Online Correction: March 30, 2012, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misidentified the City Council District 39 as District 15. It also misstated Susannah Laskaris's role at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, where she currently teaches gardening.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WE, THE PEOPLE: Residents gathered in Park Slope, Brooklyn, last month to present and consider ideas for spending $1 million on community projects.(MB1)
IDEA MAN: Josh Lerner's nonprofit group is trying spread the concept. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC MICHAEL JOHNSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DREAMING GREEN: Maggie Tobin of Kensington, Brooklyn, proposed turning a traffic triangle into a park.
PRIVACY, PLEASE: Keith Christiansen sought stall doors and other improvements for a public school.
 DISCOURAGED: Susannah Laskaris said her committee, originally invigorated by its vision, felt defeated. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVE SANDERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); CITIES (69%); INTERVIEWS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



27 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By THOMAS GAFFNEY

 BODY:
10 P.M. (AMC) MAD MEN In last week's Season 5 premiere, Don Draper (Jon Hamm) was the man of the hour at a surprise birthday party engineered by his new wife, Megan (Jessica Pare, above), but he was embarrassed by her sexy performance of the French song ''Zou Bisou Bisou'' in front of his colleagues. In this week's episode, Don and Harry (Rich Sommer) try to make a client happy. Peggy Olson (Elisabeth Moss), fresh off the disappointment of having her Heinz pitch rejected, takes on new duties at the office.
10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION The program broadcasts an interview with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. in which he expresses confidence that the Supreme Court will uphold the constitutionality of the health care law. Bob Schieffer speaks with Newt Gingrich and Ron Paul, both Republican presidential candidates, about the 2012 election. Other guests are Jan Crawford and John Dickerson, both of CBS News; Kevin Madden, a campaign adviser for Mitt Romney; and Gwen Ifill of PBS NewsHour. 
9 A.M. (CNN) STATE OF THE UNION WITH CANDY CROWLEY Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, explains the stakes for his party in the election and touches on topics like gas prices and President Obama's standing in the polls. Representative Paul Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, speaks about the budget and Representative Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan, talks about national security threats.
10:30 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESS The Republican presidential candidate Rick Santorum joins the program remotely to discuss his campaign, the Wisconsin primary, the health care case before the Supreme Court and the state of the economy. Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York, explains the politics of the health-care battle, which is also the topic of this week's roundtable. Guests will include Thomas L. Friedman and David Brooks, both columnists for The New York Times; Jon Meacham, a Time magazine contributing editor; Mika Brzezinski, a co-host of ''Morning Joe'' on MSNBC; and Harold Ford Jr., a former Democratic representative from Tennessee.
7 P.M. (NBC) DATELINE NBC Kate Snow reports on Phoebe Prince, a 15-year-old student at South Hadley High School in Massachusetts who took her own life. The program looks at the freshman's final hours and the prosecutor who has brought charges against six teenagers, saying their taunting and physical threats led Ms. Prince to hang herself.
8 P.M. (CBS) THE 47th ANNUAL ACADEMY OF COUNTRY MUSIC AWARDS Blake Shelton and Reba McEntire, left, host the awards show from the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas. Kenny Chesney, Lady Antebellum, Eric Church and Jason Aldean are scheduled to perform.
8 P.M. (13, 49) FINDING YOUR ROOTS WITH HENRY LOUIS GATES JR. Tracing Barbara Walters's roots, Mr. Gates hits a common genealogy roadblock: a name change in her family.
8 P.M. (Discovery) FROZEN PLANET There is no harder time to survive in the polar regions than winter. Emperor penguins in Antarctica have to fatten up for the season so they can withstand the storms and protect their eggs from the brutal temperatures. In the Arctic, wolverines and ravens search for prey underneath the snow, and wolves try to kill musk oxen to feed their young. Underwater, brine icicles form and quickly spread, freezing anything that touches them.
9 P.M. (HBO) GAME OF THRONES In the second season premiere, Tyrion (Peter Dinklage, left) returns to King's Landing to advise his young nephew, King Joffrey (Jack Gleeson), whose power is threatened as Robb Stark (Richard Madden) and the northern army wage war against the Lannisters.
9 P.M. (13, 49) GREAT EXPECTATIONS ''Masterpiece Classic'' commemorates Charles Dickens's bicentennial by presenting a two-part special starting on Sunday. The BBC production tells the story of the young orphan Pip, who gives food to an escaped convict and later receives a vast fortune as a reward. Gillian Anderson, David Suchet and Ray Winstone star in this adaptation.
10 P.M. (13, 49) SAVING THE TITANIC Firemen and stokers in the Titanic's engine and boiler rooms did not abandon their posts, even after learning that the ship was sinking. This special imagines the engineering crew's final hours. Starring David Wilmot and Ciaran McMenamin. THOMAS GAFFNEY

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY RON JAFFE/AMC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); POLITICS (74%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); COUNTRY MUSIC (71%); MUSIC (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); HEALTH CARE LAW (68%); WRITERS (66%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (50%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); BLAKE SHELTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (73%); RON PAUL (71%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); JOE BIDEN (53%); NEWT GINGRICH (53%); CHARLES SCHUMER (52%); MICHAEL J ROGERS (52%); RICK SANTORUM (52%); MITCH MCCONNELL (52%); MIKE ROGERS (51%); KENNY CHESNEY (50%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



28 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1975 words

HEADLINE: A Wary Mexico Sizes Up Contenders for the Presidency

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Elisabeth Malkin contributed reporting from Mexico City, and Karla Zabludovsky from Macuspana, Mexico.

 BODY:
GUADALAJARA, Mexico -- It is essentially a battle, cynical commentators joke, between the Pretty Boy, the Quinceanera Doll and the Tired Has-Been.
Mexico's presidential campaign has begun, and the disdain seeping from these common descriptions of the three main candidates reflects what experts say are low expectations. Mexican voters, polls show, have been losing faith in democracy as their nation teeters between modern success and violent failure.
This is a country of conflicting messages, of economic growth and decapitated heads. It is the United States' third-largest trading partner and a majority middle-class country, but one held back by corruption, impunity, poverty, red tape, monopolies and a culture of discomfort with confrontation.
Whoever wins on July 1 will inherit a Mexico disillusioned and stuck, caught between forces of the past that resist change and the frustration of those who have begun to expect more from their leaders. 
Crime in particular requires immediate attention. More than 50,000 people have died in drug-related killings since late 2006, and the justice system is a farce: more than 98 percent of crimes go unpunished, according to studies of government data.
''Mexico is at a crossroads in terms of dealing with organized crime,'' said Pamela K. Starr, an expert on Mexican politics at the University of Southern California. Referring to the current president, Felipe Calderon, she said: ''It's quite clear that the government absolutely must confront organized crime, and it's absolutely clear that the Calderon strategy hasn't worked.''
The country's oil sector also needs an overhaul to turn around the money-losing, state-owned monopoly, Pemex, and bring in private investment to develop new reserves. Meanwhile, declining illegal immigration to the United States has the potential to alter the dynamics of American-Mexican relations.
Most voters, accustomed to unresponsive government after decades of single-party rule, do not expect even most of these challenges to be addressed.
And yet, the candidates' first official campaign events on Friday revealed more than might have been expected -- about their sales pitches and personalities, at least. Policy proposals were less forthcoming. But this year's race is shorter because of new laws (which even ban negative campaign ads), so for all three contenders the past few days were the start of a three-month sprint to Election Day, during which they must answer the core questions of their candidacies.
Enrique Pena Nieto, the telegenic front-runner sometimes called the Pretty Boy (or Gel Boy because of his styled hair), needs to persuade voters that he represents a new, corruption-free Institutional Revolutionary Party, or P.R.I., the party that ruled Mexico from 1929 to 2000. But can he prove he is not just a handsome meringue atop an old authoritarian party?
Josefina Vazquez Mota, a former education secretary under the current president, has perhaps a greater challenge. She has been called the Quinceanera Doll because she is always smiling, but her party -- the P.A.N., or National Action Party -- has been in charge for 12 years, a time of rising violence and continued corruption. Can she convince Mexicans that she represents a break from her party and become the country's first female president?
And even for Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, a liberal former mayor of Mexico City who lost the last election in 2006 by 0.6 percentage points, the past and future compete. The oldest of the candidates, sometimes called the Tired Has-Been, he must answer the question of whether he has put aside the radical populism of his last campaign to govern as a moderate.
Much Hope, Few Details
Green neon glow sticks and oversize beach balls flew through the air -- along with some young supporters who crowd-surfed on the outstretched arms of their friends and fellow fans, who all wore white in well-organized solidarity.
''It's the color of hope,'' said Ricardo Sanchez, 21, smiling with a bunch of friends just steps from a mariachi band. ''We've got a lot of hope in this guy.''
Even before Mr. Pena Nieto, 45, appeared at 12:01 a.m. on Friday, the first moment he could legally begin campaigning, the rally in Guadalajara, Mexico's second-largest city, felt more like a victory party than a campaign kick-off. Thousands of supporters filled one of the city's main squares to hear a speech that was heavy on promises and light on details about how those goals would be achieved.
Criticizing blights like poverty, insecurity and corruption, offering change and ''light and hope'' (the cue for supporters to point their flashlights in the air), Mr. Pena Nieto played to the crowd's emotions. ''Many people's lives are afflicted by worry,'' he said. ''And what's worse, they're living in fear.''
He pledged to make Mexico safe and prosperous. And with a big smile, he praised Mexican women for their strength, then publicly signed a poster listing his major promises.
It was part of an expansive, orchestrated show of confidence. Rallies for P.R.I. candidates were also held at midnight in other major cities. And over the Easter holiday, the party plans to set up dozens of sports kiosks nationwide giving out inflatable soccer goals, soccer balls, hats and other party paraphernalia.
Some analysts described the campaign as a throwback to the classic giveaway politics of what the novelist Mario Vargas Llosa once called ''the perfect dictatorship'' because the P.R.I. maintained control with mass mobilizations, not ideology, through the cover of democratic elections. Others, however, said that over the last 12 years when it was out of power, the P.R.I. has come to recognize that with Mexico more democratic, the party can fulfill its promise of effective government only with a landslide victory, not just for president but also in the legislature.
''The modern P.R.I. understands that it needs legislative leaders in congress who actually know how to deal with legislation and know how to persuade members and bargain with others,'' said Jorge I. Dominguez, a Latin American studies professor at Harvard.
Indeed at least for now, Mr. Pena Nieto seems to be benefiting from the fact that to many people he looks nothing like the P.R.I. of old -- even though he is a wealthy former governor of Mexico State, with P.R.I. leaders for relatives.
''He is good-looking,'' said Maria Alonzo Barragan, 52, as the candidate moved through the crowd. ''But he is also honest, responsible and hard-working.''
Promising a Difference
Ms. Vazquez Mota also started her campaign early Friday, with a smaller rally at her party headquarters in Mexico City, where she immediately argued that the P.R.I.'s years of control ''are still holding us back.'' Her campaign slogan -- ''Josefina Diferente, Presidenta 2012'' -- also signaled to voters, perhaps with a wink, that she was not like those other guys in her party, Mr. Calderon and his predecessor, Vicente Fox.
She is not just a woman, her campaign suggests. She is a woman who understands struggle, having grown up in a shabby one-story home that she visited for breakfast on Friday morning. And, her first day on the trail aimed to show she is a woman ready to listen.
''What would you like to see different?'' she asked again and again on Friday, in a classroom of second graders at the school she attended as a child. ''If we work hard, all dreams are possible.''
Speaking to the adults, mostly women, she also made clear that while Mr. Pena Nieto was most comfortable speaking in platitudes, she preferred to address issues that hit closer to home. Her promises were those that she, as a working mother of three, knew they wanted to hear: a full school day with afternoon activities so that children could play sports, learn an instrument, read more books and do their homework; a little more help so that overtaxed families could ''share time together.''
That message sounded fresh and appealing to some.
''If you know how to run a house, why can't you run a country?'' said Laura Rodriguez, 35, a single mother of three, who said she had been persuaded on the spot to vote for Ms. Vazquez Mota. ''Men are always first; where is the space for women, who are always left behind?''
And yet, if Ms. Vazquez Mota, 51, can win only by proving how different she really is, are after-school programs enough? Luis de la Calle, an economist and a former under secretary of international trade, said Ms. Vazquez Mota and Mr. Lopez Obrador could overcome Mr. Pena Nieto's strong lead only by making bold proposals. ''The average Mexican is a lot more modern than our politicians,'' he said. ''The average Mexican is willing to hear more about Mexican taboos like reforming the energy sector or really changing the tax system.''
The four points in Ms. Vazquez Mota's platform sounded a lot like the five promises of Mr. Pena Nieto. Both candidates emphasized the need for a more transparent, functioning justice system, for jobs, for improving Mexico's image abroad.
The difference, some of Ms. Vazquez Mota's supporters said, was that she could be trusted to follow through. ''How many years of the P.R.I. did we have?'' Ms. Rodriguez asked. ''I trust that Josefina will change the direction of things.''
Measured Populism
Workers. Love. And change.
Mr. Lopez Obrador, 59, wearing no tie or sport coat, pounded the podium while sweating profusely under a scorching sun in his hometown of Macuspana, in Tabasco State, on Friday, as if he were determined to disprove his recent admission that he has ''less vigor'' now, during his second run for president.
The other candidates, he said, ''represent the same thing.'' Only his campaign represented the alternative of ''honesty, justice and love, lots of love.''
Tabasco and other southern states gave Mr. Lopez Obrador lots of love in 2006. Poverty is worse in the region than in other places, and voters are more open to the leftist ideas of Mr. Lopez Obrador and his Party of the Democratic Revolution. But even in friendly territory, he seemed to sway between his brand of populism and the more moderate approach that analysts say he must adopt to climb from third place, where he has stagnated for months in opinion polls.
He has toned down his campaign slogan, from ''For the good of everyone, the poor come first,'' to the less confrontational ''Real change is in your hands.'' He also pledged to revitalize the economy by focusing on the working class, suggesting that he saw work, perhaps even more than government aid, as a vital tool for lifting Mexicans from poverty.
But he still refuses to acknowledge his loss in 2006, insisting it was fraud. He told voters that one of the country's biggest challenges was to make sure that the election results can be trusted.
The families of crime victims may have other priorities, but the crowd of thousands in Tabasco said they would stand with him, even if it meant a repeat of the street protests that nearly shut down Mexico City after he disputed the 2006 results. ''The whole country is willing to unite in defending the ballot boxes,'' said Francisca Policroniades, 72.
That message may not be the most persuasive. ''Andres Manuel still carries a lot of negatives from dragging on the last campaign,'' said Maria Elena Morera, of the nonpartisan civic group Citizens for a Common Cause. ''He kept campaigning for a long time after that, and that generated a lot of wear and tear that's not a problem for the other candidates.''
The real test for all three candidates will come with undecided voters, who make up nearly a third of the electorate, polls say. Whether they vote may say more about the state of Mexican democracy than whoever wins.
''A great leap forward,'' Ms. Starr said, ''demands that Mexican society suddenly comes to accept the reality that in a democracy you have a right and a responsibility to hold your leaders responsible.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At top, Josefina Vazquez Mota, the candidate for the National Action Party, greeted supporters in Mexico City. Above left, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, the candidate for the leftist Party of the Democratic Revolution, in Mexico City, and right, Enrique Pena Nieto of Institutional Revolutionary Party at a rally in Guadalajara. Mr. Pena Nieto is considered the front-runner. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
HENRY ROMERO/REUTERS
 EDGARD GARRIDO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); CORRUPTION (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LEGISLATION (70%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (69%); IMMIGRATION (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%)

COMPANY: PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (65%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (65%)

PERSON: ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (89%); FELIPE CALDERON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



29 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL WEEK AHEAD; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: Who's the Bully in Wisconsin?

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

 BODY:
The Wisconsin primary on Tuesday is widely seen as Rick Santorum's last chance of stopping Mitt Romney from winning the Republican nomination. The state's Republicans, however, are far more concerned with the furiously contested recall election of Gov. Scott Walker, now set for June 5. 
''People are not focused on the presidential,'' Ted Kanavas, Mr. Romney's state campaign co-chairman, told The Associated Press. ''They are totally focused on the recall, because truthfully they should be.''
As a result, the presidential candidates are trying to claw their way to attention by outdoing each other in their support of Mr. Walker, a Republican who infuriated Democrats and labor unions last year by pushing to strip public employees of their bargaining rights. The two campaigns have raised union-bashing to ludicrous new heights.
Mr. Romney's campaign, ahead in the polls, unleashed a robo-call accusing Mr. Santorum of having ''repeatedly supported big labor'' in the Senate, as when he voted against a bill in 1996 that would let workers opt out of paying union dues. It accused him of being on the side of ''liberal Democrats.''
Mr. Santorum responded that he supports such a bill now, and is fully behind the governor in his fight against public-sector unions, which he stopped just short of calling thugs. ''There is no tougher bully than the public employee unions,'' he said.
Despite the vitriol, unions remain popular in the state and the region. President Obama is well ahead of both Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum in the state, and a recent Marquette University poll showed Mr. Walker has sunk to a tie against his nearest Democratic challenger. The state's blue-collar voters are angry, and a campaign that makes economic bullies out of workers will be a tough sell in June and November.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); LEGISLATION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (68%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); RICK SANTORUM (89%); SCOTT WALKER (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



30 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 895 words

PERSON: Roger C. Molander 

HEADLINE: Roger C. Molander, Nuclear Protest Leader, Dies at 71

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Roger C. Molander, who abandoned what he called the ''priesthood'' of cold warriors in the White House and the Pentagon to organize one of the nation's largest and most colorful protests against nuclear arms, died on March 25 in Washington. He was 71.
The cause was complications from liver cancer, his daughter Egan Molander Cammack said. 
Mr. Molander drew from his expertise as a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering to become an influential arms control analyst in the Defense Department and on National Security Council in the Nixon, Ford and Carter administrations. He became frustrated with the slow pace of negotiations with the Russians on nuclear weapons issues, and even more upset with the matter-of-fact approach some colleagues took toward atomic war.
In April 1982, he told The New York Times about a meeting at the Pentagon that helped change his life.
''A Navy captain was saying that people here and in Europe were getting too upset about the consequences of nuclear war,'' Mr. Molander recalled. ''The captain added that people were talking as if nuclear war would be the end of the world when, in fact, only 500 million people would be killed.''
''Only 500 million people!'' Mr. Molander exclaimed. ''I remember sitting there and repeating that phrase to myself: 'Only 500 million people!' Only one-eighth of the world's population!''
After the Senate did not ratify the strategic arms limitation treaty signed by President Jimmy Carter in 1979, progress in arms negotiations stalled. The administration of President Ronald Reagan and the Soviet Union were building up armaments.
Mr. Molander doubted that the experts, whom he termed a ''technical priesthood,'' could alone bridge the gap between the two nations. He concluded that Americans and Russians needed to speak on a human plane as well as a technical one.
''I hope they spend most of their time talking about their kids, their grandchildren, and their friends, and their responsibilities to future generations, instead of all this missile stuff,'' he told The Times in May 1982.
Mr. Molander left the government in 1981 to start the grass-roots organization Ground Zero, taking its name from the point immediately below a nuclear explosion. His twin brother, Earl, was deputy director. In the third week of April 1982, Ground Zero organized a vast protest against nuclear war in which as many as a million people participated in about 800 cities and towns.
Events included a ''Run for Your Life'' race in Winston-Salem, N.C., in which runners started at a ''ground zero'' marker in the center of town. Signs along the way depicted concentric circles of destruction from a nuclear explosion.
At Columbia University in Manhattan, students staged a ''die-in.'' Their faces painted white, they lay on the ground as if struck by a bomb while a band played funeral music. Around the country, there were fasts, prayers and bicycle races.
Mr. Molander wrote a small book to stimulate discussion, ''Nuclear War: What's in It for You?'' It sold about 350,000 copies.
The movement attracted wide support, from conservatives as well as liberals. Reagan said he was ''heart and soul in sympathy'' with the goal of educating people about nuclear issues. Others were ambivalent: the Washington Post columnist David S. Broder said the demonstrations might help prod the administration to the bargaining table, but he described them as verging on ''liberal sentimentalism run amok.''
Roger Carl Molander was born on Nov. 20, 1940, in Perham, Minn., and grew up in Marinette, Wis. He graduated from the University of Wisconsin, Madison, with a degree in mechanical engineering and earned a doctorate from the University of California, Berkeley.
In 1973 as a Defense Department official, he was an aide to Paul Nitze, the chief American negotiator with the Soviets. Mr. Molander moved to the National Security Council as a senior staff member in 1974.
Ground Zero dissolved into local initiatives and other peace organizations after the big 1982 demonstration, as Mr. Molander moved on to the Roosevelt Center for Policy Studies, a research group, as president and chief executive. He continued to work on arms control, as well as economic policy and other issues. He developed role-playing educational games to educate the public.
Under the auspices of the Roosevelt Center, in 1988 Mr. Molander tried to elevate the discussion of arms issues among presidential candidates in the two earliest states to vote, Iowa and New Hampshire. He set up ''crash courses'' to bring candidates ''up to speed'' on these questions.
Mr. Molander then became a senior analyst at the RAND Corporation. He developed many of the research organization's ''The Day After ...'' projects, in which a hypothetical crisis is examined to determine what could have been done differently.
In addition to his daughter Egan and his twin brother, Earl, Mr. Molander is survived by his wife of 37 years, Mary Moore; another daughter, Ingrid Molander; and two granddaughters.
Earl and Roger Molander wrote an article for The Los Angeles Times in April 1982, pushing the idea that Russian-American conviviality might help peace.
''So bring on the Russians,'' they wrote. ''Try their vodka, listen to their music, read their novels, watch them dance. Maybe take one to lunch and start a conversation on a topic of mutual interest. Try 'the fate of the earth,' for starters.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Roger C. Molander, right, with his twin brother, Earl, in 1982. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TERESA ZABALA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); POPULATION SIZE (72%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); CANCER (71%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (71%); ENGINEERING (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); RUNNING (62%); CITY LIFE (60%); CITIES (60%); LIVER DISEASE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); EUROPE (79%)

CATEGORY: Activism

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



31 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Tiger and the Stock Market, Together Again

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
WHAT do Tiger Woods and the S.& P. 500 have in common?
They're back!
Neither Tiger nor the stock market ever entirely disappeared, of course, even when it might have seemed that they should. But they certainly moved out of the spotlight.
You may recall that after a long run of spectacular good fortune, each hit a wall -- or, in Tiger's case, a fire hydrant and a tree. (Hey, this isn't reality TV. Some details will be left to your imagination.) 
Amid much heartache, the great golfer and the stock market both lost their way -- and lost the ability to mesmerize a suddenly disenchanted public.
But in March, after more than 900 often harrowing days, both Tiger and the market accomplished something memorable.
On March 25, he won the Arnold Palmer Invitational tournament in Orlando, an accomplishment that was commonplace when he was racking up titles every weekend. It had been a very long time -- 923 days, to be exact -- since the P.G.A. Tour Web site needed to add a new trophy to its ''Tiger Woods Victory Room,'' an online sanctum dedicated to celebrating the career of ''the most recognizable athlete on the planet.'' He said that this particular victory, his 72nd on the official PGA tour, was an occasion for ''pure joy.''
In some circles, the stock market commands almost as much attention as sports, and in these precincts the month was also notable. On March 15, the Standard & Poor's 500, which tracks the movements of big-company stocks, closed above 1,400. That's a gain of 107 percent from its 2009 low. The index has been flirting with 1,400 since, closing on Friday above 1,408. It has gained 12 percent this year.
That achievement may not warrant a brass band, but it is something of a milestone. Before March, the market hadn't closed above 1,400 in nearly three years -- 951 trading days, actually. (Morgan Stanley has been counting.) Many brokerage statements will now make for more pleasant reading. But based on past history, Morgan Stanley suggested in a research report, investors would be wise to respond with relief rather than rapture.
AFTER all, the market has been here before, several times, always with dismal results. The S.& P. surmounted 1,400 in 1999, before the market tumble that started in 2000. The index broke through it again on Nov. 17, 2006, and climbed above 1,500 the next year, only to fall off a cliff. After many years of wrenching ups and downs, in other words, the S.& P. has gone nowhere.
What's worse, Morgan Stanley finds parallels to late 2006 and concludes that the market today is in some ways more precarious.
While the economy has been growing lately, the report said, ''macro conditions are vastly different and largely worse'' than in 2006. Real gross domestic product in March grew at a lower annual rate -- 1.6 percent, versus. 2.2 percent in November 2006. Inflation was much higher -- 2.9 percent versus 1.4 percent. And the disparity in unemployment rates is shockingly steep, at 8.3 percent versus only 4.4 percent.
Most corporate balance sheets are in better shape than they were in 2006, but the Federal Reserve's is conspicuously bloated, the report noted. The Fed has been doing its best to prop up the economy and to make riskier assets, like stocks, more appealing, but its efforts may pose significant dangers.
''During this same period, the Federal Reserve has tripled its balance sheet to nearly $3 trillion through purchases of mortgage securities and Treasuries,'' Morgan Stanley noted. ''While this stimulative monetary policy has arguably aided risky assets, it has increased uncertainty as well, since ultimately it needs to be unwound.''
The Fed stands ready to do more. With the housing market weak and unemployment high, it is ''too early to declare victory'' for the economy, Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, said last week. And if oil and gas prices climb high enough, they could easily derail the American economy. So could the recession in Europe or a flare-up of the financial crisis simmering in the euro zone. Or slowing growth in China. Or fiscal austerity in the United States.
David Rosenberg, chief economist at Gluskin Sheff in Toronto, and formerly of Merrill Lynch, wrote in a report that huge central-bank intervention is the ''critical reason'' the market has ''doubled over the past three years -- punctuated by steep givebacks once the taps are turned off (only to then be turned on again.)'' This pattern is likely to continue, he says, so investors should keep their wits about them.
IN a similar vein, Morgan Stanley says expectations of rising corporate profits have persuaded many investors to pay richer prices for stocks. But the trajectory of the profit growth is flattening, it says. The company emphatically warns its clients: ''Don't pay a higher multiple for today's corporate earnings.''
In short, the stock market is back and may well move higher still. But it's worth remembering that it is a blood sport -- more ''Hunger Games'' than light entertainment.
Golf, on the other hand, is a gentler pastime. Yet it, too, has provided some stern tests, with one this week at the Masters tournament at Augusta National. Like the market, Tiger Woods is back, yes. How securely, we may soon see.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After losing their way a few years ago, Tiger Woods and Wall Street have rebounded to recent success. The S. & P. 500 climbed back over 1,400, and Woods won a tournament. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN RAOUX/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); GOLF (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); TOURNAMENTS (68%); REALITY TELEVISION (56%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (81%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (81%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (76%) FLORIDA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



32 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Why Gas Prices Are Out of Any President's Control

BYLINE: By RICHARD H. THALER. 
Richard H. Thaler is a professor of economics and behavioral science at the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago. He has informally advised the , Obama administration.

 BODY:
EVERYONE knows it's dangerous to ingest gasoline or to inhale its fumes. But I am starting to believe that merely thinking about the price of gasoline can damage cognitive processing. Thus I may be risking some of my precious few remaining brain cells by writing about that topic.
Here is a one-item test to see whether you are guilty of cloudy thinking about gas prices: Do you believe that they are something a president can control? Many Americans believe that the answer is yes, but any respectable economist will tell you that the answer is no. 
Consider a recent poll of a panel of economists conducted by the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, where I teach. (Disclosure: I am a member of the panel; the other respondents are well-respected economists from top universities with varying political views.) The 41 panel members were asked whether they agreed with the following statement: ''Changes in U.S. gasoline prices over the past 10 years have predominantly been due to market factors rather than U.S. federal economic or energy policies.''
Not a single member of the panel disagreed with the statement.
Here is why: Oil is a global market in which America is a big consumer but a small supplier. We consume about 20 percent of the world's oil but hold only 2 percent of the oil reserves. That means we are, in economics jargon, ''price takers.'' Domestic production has increased during the Obama administration, but it has had minimal effects on global prices because, as producers, we are just too small to matter much. And even if domestic oil companies further increased production, they would sell to the highest global bidder.
If you're not convinced by economic theory or the opinions of economists, consider some recent history. Presumably, no one would call President George W. Bush unfriendly to the oil industry. Yet the price of gasoline rose steadily during most of his administration. In February 2001, just after Mr. Bush took office, the average price of regular gasoline was $1.45 a gallon. By June 2008, that price had risen to $4.05. Still think presidents and oil-friendly policies can determine oil prices?
It's true that by the end of the Bush presidency, prices had fallen back to $1.69, as oil prices plummeted with the rest of the global economy. But I think we can all agree that a global financial crisis is too high a price to pay for cheap gasoline.
Still, Republican presidential candidates are blaming the policies of President Obama for the current high level of gasoline prices. Mitt Romney has said that the president should fire three of his cabinet members for failing to get oil prices down.
(On Friday, the president moved forward in imposing sanctions that are limiting the supply of Iranian oil in world markets.)
Newt Gingrich, meanwhile, has promised us $2.50-a-gallon gasoline. But if we can suspend the law of supply and demand, why stop with gasoline? Why not $2.50 for one-carat diamonds, steak dinners and 18-year-old Scotch whiskey?
Although the United States cannot unilaterally lower the price of oil, it can reduce its consumption, by using oil more efficiently and by developing alternative sources of fuel. For example, the Obama administration has raised the corporate average fuel economy standards imposed on automakers. If consumers buy more fuel-efficient cars and trucks, demand for gasoline falls, as does the burden imposed by high gas prices. But while such rules help, they are not the best way of achieving societal goals.
A better approach would be to gradually raise the gasoline tax to levels similar to those in Western Europe, where fuel-efficient cars are the norm. N. Gregory Mankiw -- the Harvard economist who advises Mr. Romney and is a fellow contributor to the Economic View column -- has long advocated such a policy. I agree with him, as do most other economists.
For evidence, note that the economists in that same University of Chicago poll were asked whether they agreed with this statement: ''A tax on the carbon content of fuels would be a less expensive way to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions than would a collection of policies such as 'corporate average fuel economy' requirements for automobiles.''
On this question, there was just a single negative vote. Yet in our current political climate, making the sensible suggestion that we gradually raise the tax on gasoline -- or impose a broader system of carbon taxes -- is ridiculed, and no one running for president can safely make such a proposal. At least two of the candidates have shown that they understand the underlying economics. In the past, both President Obama and Mr. Romney have acknowledged that higher gas prices have an upside: they give car owners the right incentives, and if the high prices stem in part from higher fuel taxes, the deficit can be trimmed. But such obviously true statements are now considered almost unpatriotic, equivalent to cheering against the U.S.A. in the Olympics.
THE confused public debate on this topic is representative of a more general problem. The voting public is not very good at attributing credit and blame to presidents. They get too much credit when things go well and too much blame when things go badly. The same applies to coaches, C.E.O.'s, parents and anyone else in charge. Leaders are important but not omnipotent.
So, to evaluate a leader, we must determine the factors over which that leader has a modicum of control. If you hate the Obama health care program and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, by all means give the president a big share of the blame. And if you love them, give him some credit. What makes no sense is to blame the president for rising gas prices, where he has virtually no control, but not to give him some credit for rising stock prices and an improved labor market, domains where his policies -- along with those of the Federal Reserve and Congress -- are more likely to have had an effect.
When we make our choice on Election Day, we should consider that the winner will have an important impact on policies in many areas: health care, distribution of the tax burden, Supreme Court nominations, and abortion rights. The candidates' differences on those issues should be driving our decision, not the wishful thinking that a president can simply lower the price of gasoline. Or Scotch, alas.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The White House and Gasoline Prices: After remaining steady for more than a decade, the price of gasoline in the United States doubled during President George W. Bush's administration, only to fall sharply during the economic crisis at the end of his term. Under President Obama, the price has rebounded, and is back to nearly $4 a gallon. (Sources: Energy Information Administration
 Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (75%); GEORGE W BUSH (75%); MITT ROMNEY (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



33 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: The Genius of The Mandate

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
WHEN the Obama White House set out to make the liberal dream of universal health coverage a reality, it faced two obvious political obstacles. The first was the power of the interlocking interest groups -- insurance companies, physician associations, pharmaceutical companies -- that potentially stood to lose money and power in a comprehensive reform. The second was the price tag of a universal health care entitlement, which promised to be high enough to frighten vulnerable members of Congress.
The key to overcoming both obstacles, it turned out, was the mandate to purchase health insurance. 
In arguments before the Supreme Court last week, the health care mandate was defended as a kind of technocratic marvel -- the only policy capable of preventing the complex machinery of reform from leaking smoke and spitting lug nuts.
But the mandate is actually a more political sort of marvel. In the negotiations over health care reform, it protected the Democratic bill on two fronts at once: buying off some of the most influential interest groups even as it hid the true cost of universal coverage.
The mandate offered the interest groups what all entrenched industries desire: a fresh and captive market for their products. For the insurance companies, it promised enough new business to offset the cost of covering Americans with pre-existing conditions. For the health care sector as a whole, it guaranteed that disposable income currently being spent on other goods and services would be spent on its instead.
This explains why the health care bill was ultimately backed by so many industry lobbying groups, from the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America to the American Medical Association. It explains why the big insurers, while opposing the final legislation, never attacked it as vigorously as they did Bill Clinton's ill-fated reform effort.
At the same time, by requiring the private purchase of insurance, the mandate kept the true cost of the health care expansion off the government's books, and largely out of the Congressional debate. As the Cato Institute's Michael Cannon has noted, during the Clinton era the Congressional Budget Office scored an individual mandate as a form of government spending, which pushed the official cost of the Clinton bill into the trillions. But the Obama White House was savvier in its mandate design, and the C.B.O. was more compliant in its scoring. As a result, a bill that might require over $2 trillion in new health care spending -- private as well as public -- over its first decade was sold with a $900 billion price tag.
So the mandate was politically brilliant, in a sense. But its brilliance was evanescent. Founding a new entitlement on an insider-friendly sleight-of-hand made the bill much easier to pass. But it's made it harder to defend thereafter, both in the court of law and the court of public opinion.
The mandate's constitutionality is a thorny issue, and conservatives normally skeptical of judicial activism should probably be a little less eager to see major legislation set aside by a 5-to-4 majority. But the provision is unpopular enough that it's unlikely to survive in the long run even if Anthony Kennedy flips a coin and decides to uphold it.
Liberals are counting on the fact that ''only'' seven million Americans will be initially exposed to the mandate's requirements. But as the economist Tyler Cowen notes, there's every reason to think that rising health care costs will make the mandate more burdensome with time. And a provision that's already become a symbol of government overreach seems unlikely to become more popular once there are thousands of individuals and businesses with concrete grievances against it.
The reality is that the more treatments advanced medicine can offer us (and charge us for), the harder it becomes to guarantee the kind of truly universal, truly comprehensive coverage that liberals have sought for years. The individual mandate conceals these realities, but it doesn't do away with them. If it's repealed or swept aside, both left and right might be able to focus on a more plausible goal: not a perfectly universal system, but more modest reforms that would help the hardest-pressed among the uninsured.
For conservatives, these reforms might look like the proposals that James Capretta and Robert Moffit outline in the latest issue of National Affairs -- a tax credit available to people whose employers don't offer insurance, better-financed high-risk pools and stronger guarantees of continuous coverage for people with pre-existing conditions.
Liberals, for their part, would probably focus on gradually expanding Medicaid and Medicare to cover more of the near-elderly and the near-poor, creating a larger public system alongside the private marketplace. Indeed, the White House apparently considered switching to exactly this approach in the aftermath of Scott Brown's surprise Senate win.
In the end, incrementalism wasn't ambitious enough to satisfy President Obama. But given the drift of last week's Supreme Court arguments, he may be wishing that he'd settled for something less ideal, but more sustainable, than the bill the mandate built.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS & BIOTECHNOLOGY REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); BUDGETS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



34 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 9650 words

HEADLINE: The Game Is Called Chicken

BYLINE: By MATT BAI

 BODY:
Almost immediately after the so-called grand bargain between President Obama and the Republican speaker of the house, John Boehner, unraveled last July, the two sides quickly settled into dueling, self-serving narratives of what transpired behind closed doors. In the months that followed, some of Washington's most connected Democrats and Republicans told me in casual conversations that they didn't know whose story to believe, or even what, exactly, had been on the table during the negotiations. A few mentioned, independently of one another, that the entire affair reminded them of ''Rashomon,'' the classic Kurosawa film in which four characters filter the same murder plot through their different perspectives. Over time, the whole debacle became the perfect metaphor for a city in which the two parties seem more and more to occupy not just opposing places on the political spectrum, but distinct realities altogether. 
There is a practical reason for this. Both sides knew that if the most crucial and contested details of their deliberations became public, it would complicate relationships with some of their most important constituencies in Washington -- or worse. It's one thing for a Democratic president to embrace painful cuts in Medicare and Social Security benefits, or for a Republican speaker to contemplate raising taxes, if they can ultimately claim that they've joined together to make the hard decisions necessary for the country; it's quite another thing to shatter the trust of your most ideological allies and come away with nothing to show for it. Obama and Boehner have clung to their separate realities not just because it's useful to blame each other for the political dysfunction in Washington, but because neither wants to talk about just how far he was willing to go.
In This Article:
-- The Secret Negotiations Begin -- Boehner's Cryptic Message -- Decoding Boehner's Proposal -- The Trouble Getting to 'Yes' -- Enter the Gang of Six -- A Costly Miscalculation -- The Grand Bargain Within Reach -- Cantor and the Counteroffer -- Boehner Betrayed?
The Republican version of reality goes, briefly, like this: Boehner and Obama shook hands on a far-reaching deal to rewrite the tax code, roll back the cost of entitlements and slash deficits. But then Obama, reacting to pressure from Democrats in Congress, panicked at the last minute and suddenly demanded that Republicans accede to hundreds of billions of dollars in additional tax revenue. A frustrated Boehner no longer believed he could trust the president's word, and he walked away. Obama moved the goal posts, is the Republican mantra.
In the White House's telling of the story, Obama and Boehner did indeed settle on a rough framework for a deal, but it was all part of a fluid negotiation, and additional revenue was just one of the options on the table -- not a last-minute demand. And while the president stood resolute against pressure from his own party, Boehner crumpled when challenged by the more radical members in his caucus. According to this version, Boehner made up the story about a late-breaking demand as a way of extricating himself from the negotiations, because he realized he couldn't bring recalcitrant Republicans along. Boehner couldn't deliver, is what Democrats have repeatedly said.
In recent weeks, as it became clear that I was planning to write a more nuanced and detailed account of the final week of negotiations, both sides -- but primarily the speaker and his aides -- went out of their way to give extensive accounts to reporters at other outlets, in an effort to reinforce their well-rehearsed narratives. And yet it's possible now to get beyond these clashing realities. Over the last several months, I spoke with dozens of people who were involved in or were kept apprised of events that week, some of whom made available private documents from that time, including the various offers and counteroffers. I conducted most of these interviews on the condition that I would neither reveal nor quote the people who spoke to me, so that they would feel free to speak candidly.
What emerged from these conversations is a clearer and often surprising picture of exactly how close Obama and Boehner came to finalizing a historic agreement, what exactly was in it and why it ultimately fell apart -- including a revelation that illuminates Boehner's thinking in those final hours and directly contradicts a core element of the version he has told, even to some in his own leadership.
The truth here matters for more than its historical value. At the end of this year, no matter how the presidential election turns out, the two parties will face yet another Armageddon moment in the fight over debt and spending; this time, if they don't settle on a plan to rein in the nation's nearly $16 trillion debt, then a series of onerous budget cuts -- worth about $1.2 trillion over 10 years, divided between defense and other programs -- will automatically go into effect. If we understand what really went on last July, then we'll have a better sense of how difficult it will be for the two parties to stave off the coming political calamity and why, too, the situation may not be quite as hopeless as it seems.
The Secret Negotiations Begin
You may recall that Washington last summer was verging on something resembling cold-war hysteria. Republicans in the House were refusing to meet an August deadline for increasing the nation's debt limit by some $2.4 trillion unless they got an equivalent amount of budget cuts in return, raising the prospect of a default that, it was assumed, would send the financial markets into a death spiral. Vice President Joe Biden and Eric Cantor, the House majority leader and Boehner's No. 2 in the Republican caucus, had been holding talks in hopes of finding some preliminary agreement that might avert disaster, but those talks broke down in late June, primarily over the issue of taxes; the two men and their staffs had identified something like $2 trillion in cuts over the next decade, but the White House wasn't going to make a deal that didn't include some new tax revenue, and Cantor was adamant that raising taxes -- any taxes -- was a deal-breaker.
By then, however, Obama and Boehner had themselves started meeting furtively in the White House, in secret negotiating sessions that grew out of a much-discussed golf outing in June. Over a few drinks at the clubhouse at Andrews Air Force Base, Boehner suggested they might be able to use the impending debt crisis to achieve something ambitious and significant -- not just the kind of cuts that Cantor and Biden were discussing, but fundamental reforms to entitlement programs and the tax code too, a sweeping modernization of the federal budget. The president agreed that they should try to get something started, but the breakthrough that seemed to make a transformational deal possible didn't come until mid-July, in the form of a cryptic e-mail.
Budget deals happen in much the same way you might haggle over the purchase of a house: one side bangs out a proposed contract and sends it to aides on the other side, who cross out some numbers and phrases and insert new ones in their place, until the two sides ultimately iron out their differences, or until someone delivers a final offer and walks away. In this case, Obama's principal negotiators -- Jack Lew, then his budget director, and Rob Nabors, his top aide on legislation -- sent a proposal to Boehner's team that included $1.5 trillion in new revenue over 10 years. The White House negotiators knew this had about as much chance of happening as a meteorite falling on the Capitol, but the real question was whether Boehner was willing to go some distance toward meeting them on the revenue side of the ledger, or whether he would stick to Cantor's hard line against any form of new taxes.
When the response came back to Nabors, Boehner's aides had, as expected, struck the $1.5 trillion from the offer. But in its place they had inserted a strange formulation: they were proposing to reduce federal revenue, ''compared to current law,'' by $2.8 trillion. On the surface, this sounded like a flagrant rejection of what the White House was proposing -- ''You're asking for more in taxes, we're giving you less'' -- but in fact Boehner was speaking in complex code.
Boehner's Cryptic Message
There are two ''base lines'' -- or sets of assumptions -- that policy makers generally use when they try to make projections about future revenue, and in order to understand some of the most critical moments in the negotiations, it's necessary to understand the arcane difference between them. One is ''current law,'' which refers to what's supposed to happen in the years ahead, assuming that certain temporary tax cuts or increases really do expire as planned. The other is ''current policy,'' which refers to what the numbers would look like if you took the rules as they are today and froze them in place. The most important difference between these two projections has to do with the Bush tax cuts, which Obama and Congressional Republicans agreed to extend, temporarily, at the end of 2010. Under ''current law,'' those tax cuts would expire at the end of this year, leading to a projected total revenue of more than $39 trillion over the next decade. But few people in Washington actually expected Congress to let most -- if any -- of the Bush tax cuts lapse anytime soon, and through the more realistic lens of ''current policy,'' under which all the tax cuts would remain in place, that same 10-year number became something like $35.5 trillion, or $3.5 trillion less.
In his offer, Boehner had used the higher, less relevant ''current law'' base line. Then he'd proposed lowering revenue by $2.8 trillion, which reduced the 10-year number to just under $36.3 trillion. What mattered from the White House perspective was that this number was about $800 billion more in revenue than either party was actually expecting to generate under ''current policy.''
This was an exceedingly convoluted way of coming at the tax question, and even Nabors, who is one of a small number of genuine budget experts in Washington, wasn't sure, as he stared at Boehner's language, whether it meant what he thought it meant. Sitting in his spacious West Wing office, Nabors might as well have been one of John F. Kennedy's advisers in 1962, reading and rereading the cable from Khrushchev, trying to divine the carefully worded message within. He showed it to Lew, and they quickly reached the same conclusion: Boehner was saying that he was willing to accept $800 billion more in tax revenue. Or, to put it another way, Boehner was proposing to increase the government's haul by the same amount you would get if you reversed Bush's tax cuts for the most affluent Americans, but he was proposing to do it by lowering rates and eliminating loopholes and subsidies instead -- a revenue increase by other means. There was no other way to read this except to conclude that the speaker was now backing off his party's hard line against additional revenue.
Excited White House aides suddenly felt that a deal might really be possible. But even with more revenue now on the table, Boehner and Obama continued to go back and forth over the Rubik's Cube-like structure of a comprehensive deal -- whether entitlement cuts would have to come before tax reform, whether most of the cuts would accrue in the first decade or the second and so on. Meanwhile, political pressure was building from inside Boehner's leadership circle. Cantor, who had heard about the Obama-Boehner talks only when Biden happened to mention it, was nonplused at having been excluded and appalled that Boehner was offering more revenue. He and others pressed the speaker to drop the idea of a comprehensive deal, and on July 9, Boehner did just that, calling Obama at Camp David to tell him that the grand bargain was dead. He issued a statement immediately after, saying it was time for both parties to set their sights on a less ambitious solution to the debt-ceiling crisis, which now loomed less than a month away.
Except the speaker couldn't bring himself to settle for something less ambitious. Five days later, on July 14, he called the president yet again.
Decoding Boehner's Proposal
Why couldn't Boehner let it lie? It's a question that still puzzles a lot of his closest allies in Washington, not to mention his fellow Republican leaders on the Hill. Obama's reasons for chasing the grand bargain were clear enough. Not only was he bent on avoiding a catastrophic debt default, but he needed to get out from under the debt issue, to demonstrate that he cared about reducing deficits before public concerns about government spending, stoked by rhetoric on the right, overwhelmed his presidency. Boehner's motives were less obvious. The speaker occupied what may have been the toughest spot in Washington -- trying to control a nihilistic rebellion in his own caucus while watching the approval ratings for Congress fall into the teens, all the while surrounded by young, ambitious leaders who doubted his ideological resolve. The last thing Boehner needed, you would think, was to close his eyes and take a Thelma-and-Louise-style plunge with a president whom no one in his party could stand.
Nothing better illustrated Boehner's position than his clandestine, convoluted overture to the president on taxes. The offer for $800 billion in additional revenue -- as opposed to, say, $700 billion or $900 billion -- was no accident. On one hand, Boehner's people must have known that Obama probably couldn't settle for anything less than that, because Democrats in Congress would demand that any deal recoup the cost of Bush's least defensible tax cuts. At the same time, Boehner's aides had calculated that, at $800 billion, they could plausibly argue to their own caucus that the government could raise more money without actually raising anyone's taxes.
How could you make that case? Boehner would argue that some sizable chunk of that money -- if not all of it -- would come to the government as a result of economic growth spurred by new, lower tax rates, and from better compliance, since the new tax code would be less confusing. Thus, by this feat of actuarial magic, Boehner contended that raising revenue did not require raising taxes, and in fact would enable you to lower them. The math was debatable, certainly, but it was a central tenet of any deal Boehner would negotiate.
But then, having worked out a theoretical way to get to the $800 billion that he knew the White House needed, Boehner wasn't comfortable even putting the figure down on a piece of paper. The idea of any new tax revenue was so heretical to his party, and Boehner was so fearful of the reaction, that his aides felt compelled to come up with a roundabout way of expressing the offer in terms that few people in Washington would be able to decipher, just in case the paper should fall into the wrong -- that is, his own party's -- hands. Boehner knew that his position might well imperil his standing as speaker, whether it led to a deal or not, and yet he was taking it anyway.
Boehner would later tell me that he was determined to do this because he was tired, after 20 years in Washington, of seeing one Congress and one president after another ignore the coming explosion of spending on entitlement programs and the growing public debt. He also shared Obama's view that a grand bargain would actually be easier to pass than a smaller deal -- that if lawmakers were going to have to make a bunch of politically explosive cuts, they were more likely to go through with it if they could go tell voters that they'd achieved something truly transformative. As Biden put it, ''There's no point in dying on a small cross.''
The Trouble Getting to 'Yes'
But politics is often as much about self-perception as it is about policy, and it wasn't hard to discern a more personal reason for Boehner's attachment to the idea of a grand bargain. Having fashioned himself as a reformer since coming to Congress in 1991, Boehner was now 61, and with Congress flipping back and forth between the parties, it wasn't a given that he would hold the speakership for more than a few years. What would Boehner's legacy be, or would he even have one? Some speakers, like Tip O'Neill or Newt Gingrich, carve out places in history as indispensable partners in creating momentous legislation. Others, like Denny Hastert, are destined to be lost to the ages. Those who know Boehner say that what he saw in the grand bargain was a chance to be remembered as a statesman who helped set the country on a different course, rather than as a party functionary who shakily presided over a fractious caucus.
Obama and Boehner had spent little time together before the talks began, and they had only a vague sense of each other. Aides on both sides described a kind of forced familiarity between the two men, who would begin meetings with the shallowest of chatter -- ''Play any golf this weekend, John?'' -- before moving quickly into the substance of budget politics. White House aides thought Boehner looked as if there were someplace he'd rather be, while Boehner's aides were put off by what they saw as Obama's lecturing style. Still, the two men -- Midwesterners, former state legislators, introverts by nature and smokers by habit -- seemed to think they could trust each other.
In fact, when Boehner called back on that Thursday afternoon, the 14th, in hopes of restarting the negotiations, it wasn't Obama but rather one of his chief aides who Boehner had decided was the problem. For weeks leading up to the breakdown in talks, Boehner and his top lieutenants -- Barry Jackson, his chief of staff, and Brett Loper, his policy aide -- had been talking principally to Jack Lew and Rob Nabors at the White House. But they had become exasperated with Lew, who, in their view, talked a lot but offered few concessions. Lew, whose detailed knowledge of the budget outpaced anyone else's in the room, always seemed to have a better idea than whatever Boehner was proposing, and these ideas seemed to Boehner like more complicated ways of describing positions they had already rejected. The problem with Lew, Boehner bluntly told the president when he called, is that he just didn't know how to get to ''yes.''
Boehner thought he had a better shot with Bill Daley, the president's chief of staff, and Timothy Geithner, the Treasury secretary. Daley had made a point of reaching out to Boehner since joining the administration, and he was known to be a pragmatist and a dealmaker. Geithner, clearly rattled by the possibility that Treasury might default on its debt, had been issuing almost daily warnings to Congressional leaders about the mounting fear in the markets. Send me Daley and Geithner, Boehner told the president, and let's see what we can do.
The next afternoon, a Friday, Daley and Geithner went to the Capitol to meet with Boehner and Cantor. In addition to requesting a change in negotiators, Boehner's team had come up with a new, simpler way to structure the deal that they hoped would eliminate some of the persistent conflicts over timing in the earlier talks. Before, Boehner had wanted to legislate cuts in annual spending and entitlements up front, while leaving tax reform for Congressional committees to work out over a period of months -- a formulation that worried Obama and his allies. But now the speaker's team suggested that the two sides come up with a framework of broad principles and specific target numbers on both the cuts and revenue, and then let Congress work out all the details at the same time. Using that template, the two sides quickly found a large swath of common ground. Two days later, on Sunday afternoon, Boehner and Cantor went to the White House to continue the conversation, and Obama joined the group after he returned from church.
No one was under the illusion that a final agreement had been nailed down and was ready for signatures, but when Obama and Boehner shook hands that afternoon, there was a general feeling that they would work through the remaining details relatively easily. Before the meeting at last broke up, Obama mentioned to the others that they would have to carefully think about how to roll out the deal, to make sure that both sides were saying the same thing publicly. That night, Jackson and Loper sent over a three-page proposal based on the discussions; in exchange for agreeing to the $800 billion in additional revenue, they asked for more than $450 billion in combined cuts to Medicare and Medicaid over the next decade alone, as well as a series of changes to Social Security, including a new formula for calculating benefits and a higher retirement age.
There was no question that the framework negotiated by Obama, Daley and Geithner -- and laid out in the Republicans' offer sheet -- unsettled the stomachs of some White House aides. No one liked the idea of acceding to Medicare cuts, and most didn't think Social Security should be part of the deal at all. (Democratic orthodoxy holds that Social Security has nothing to do with the federal debt, since it generates its own revenue from the payroll tax.) But Obama's senior aides, including the political adviser David Plouffe, had come to believe that a grand bargain, however imperfect, was preferable to a smaller deal -- and far preferable to a debt default. The debate now was about what it would take to get the votes. Nabors and his legislative team had real doubts that Democrats in Congress would go for anything close to what Boehner was asking for, and they were just as skeptical that Boehner could get his own caucus behind it. As Jackson and Loper waited anxiously at the Capitol for a counteroffer, the internal White House discussions dragged on into Monday night.
Enter the Gang of Six
For more than six months, ever since Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles, the chairmen of Obama's fiscal commission, offered their stark recommendations for remaking the budget at the end of 2010, a group of senators -- Mark Warner, Richard Durbin and Kent Conrad on the Democratic side, along with the Republicans Saxby Chambliss, Tom Coburn and Mike Crapo -- had been trying to build some consensus around a plan. Over dozens of dinners and negotiating sessions, some of which were held at Warner's stately home in Alexandria, Va., the so-called Gang of Six labored over a compromise they could sell to their colleagues, while leaders of both parties eyed them warily.
But a deal remained maddeningly out of reach, mainly because it was proving impossible to bridge the distance between the two members of the gang who were furthest apart on the ideological spectrum. Durbin, a member of the Democratic leadership and a close friend of the president's -- and the only avowed liberal in the group -- was determined to protect tax credits for the poor and the working class. Coburn, a rigid fiscal conservative from Oklahoma, wanted $130 billion more in cuts to entitlements than the rest of the group. In May, Coburn excused himself from the deliberations in order to come up with his own deficit-slashing plan.
By mid-July, just as Boehner was preparing to invite Daley and Geithner up to the Hill, the group's informal chairmen, Warner and Chambliss, decided they couldn't wait any longer to share the gang's uncompleted work with the rest of the Senate. They scheduled a briefing for senators only -- no staff -- on Tuesday morning in the Capitol.
The White House knew about the briefing (Durbin had kept the West Wing informed), but it didn't seem especially consequential to aides who were now thoroughly immersed in their own secret negotiations. After all, the gang had made noise about being close to a deal many times before, and nothing had ever come of it. Even now, its members admitted to having only the broadest outline of a plan, and the briefing was slated for 8:30, when most senators are still groping for coffee or pounding the treadmill. Even Warner thought it was bound to be more of a sideshow than a main event.
And so no one was more surprised than the gang members themselves when almost half the Senate, roughly divided between the parties, trickled in as Warner and Chambliss outlined the new revenue and spending cuts in their emerging plan to cut $4.6 trillion from the budget. The first one to rise, after the presentation was finished, was Coburn. The unpredictable sixth man gave an impassioned endorsement of the plan, telling his colleagues it wasn't perfect, but it was the best they were going to accomplish. Then Durbin stood up and echoed the sentiment. One by one, senators from both parties added their support.
It's not hard now to understand what happened in the room. As House Republicans and the administration debated the debt, most of the Senate felt sidelined and powerless. What the Gang of Six was offering was the promise of action, a way for the Senate to re-emerge as a serious player in a national drama.
A Costly Miscalculation
Word quickly traveled down Pennsylvania Avenue to the White House, where Nabors, who was still honing a response to Boehner's offer from Sunday night, called Barry Jackson in the speaker's office and asked what was going on. Jackson wasn't sure. Within a few hours, though, the White House had the sense that something important had shifted. More than 20 Republican senators, by some counts, had stood up in favor of a plan that would raise more revenue, and Obama thought he now had an opportunity to exert more pressure on House Republicans by highlighting the widening split inside their own party. Shortly after noon, Obama took the unusual step of marching out to the briefing room to declare his support for the Gang of Six, instantly elevating what was supposed to have been an informal, sparsely attended briefing into the day's national news. It was, in retrospect, a costly miscalculation.
Even before the president had stopped speaking, it was beginning to dawn on White House aides that what had looked like an opportunity was actually a serious problem. Like Boehner, Obama was risking an insurrection in his own party once the details of their plan became public. For a lot of Democratic lawmakers, even conceding the central Republican point about the debt -- that it was the hallmark of unsustainable government spending -- was a kind of apostasy. The way they saw it, Republicans had created the deficit problem with ill-advised tax cuts and disastrous wars, and now they were using it as a pretense to roll back social programs for the poor and middle class. And as for Medicare, leading Democrats on the Hill hoped to make it a pivotal issue in House and Senate races in 2012, now that Paul Ryan, the Republican chairman of the House budget committee, had proposed replacing the program with a voucher system. (A sign in the window at the Democratic headquarters in Washington read: ''Vote Republican, End Medicare.'') Why, they wondered, would the president want to forfeit that advantage by agreeing now to cut those programs himself?
If it was never going to be easy for the White House to sell the grand bargain to Democrats on the Hill, then the plan put forward by the Gang of Six was likely to make it impossible. On the surface, the gang had proposed an overall revenue increase of $1.2 trillion, 50 percent more than the $800 billion Obama and Boehner were talking about. Democrats were bound to ask why the president had settled for less in taxes than the Gang of Six did.
But once Obama's aides looked more closely at the numbers, they understood that the political problem posed by the gang's plan was actually far worse. This is where the whole distinction between base lines -- ''current law'' and ''current policy'' -- comes in again. The gang had settled on a base line that was somewhere between ''current law'' and ''current policy''; it had assumed the Bush tax cuts for the most affluent were expiring, while the other tax cuts would persist. The White House, meanwhile, had been calculating their figures based on ''current policy,'' under which all the tax cuts would remain in place. This meant that when you actually compared the two plans in an apples-to-apples way, the Gang of Six was proposing to raise revenue by about $2 trillion -- $1.2 trillion more than the president and the speaker had tentatively agreed to.
How could Obama possibly ask Democratic leaders to pass a deal with $800 billion in new revenue, when a bunch of Republican senators -- not to mention the president himself, on national TV -- had just stood up to applaud a plan with $2 trillion attached? Never mind that the Gang of Six plan was little more than a memo, with no chance of becoming an actual bill -- let alone passing the House or Senate. Liberals would laugh the president out of the room. The numbers would confirm the suspicion, already voiced by some lawmakers privately, that Obama wanted a bipartisan victory too badly and would accept a deal on any terms, even if it sold out his party's principles.
Early Tuesday afternoon, Nabors called Jackson, this time sounding grim. They were going to have a problem on the balance between revenue and spending, he said. Daley delivered a similar message to Jackson. What do we do now? he wanted to know. The president just wouldn't be able to sell that deal to enough of his own senators and congressmen to get it across the finish line.
As White House aides would later present it, Boehner's guys took this news with equanimity, indicating they were skeptical but willing to talk. The speaker's aides, however, say they were reeling. A deal is a deal, a mystified Jackson told Daley. He and Loper hoped the alarm in the White House might be a temporary overreaction and that Obama might relent once he and Boehner had a chance to talk. They were still trying to process what had happened when, later that night, an e-mail from Rob Nabors popped into Jackson's in-box. The president's counteroffer had finally arrived.
The Grand Bargain Within Reach
For all the talk since last July about who blew up the deal, it has been difficult to get a clear sense of what specifically the agreement was supposed to include. And so the three-page counteroffer that Rob Nabors sent to Barry Jackson and Brett Loper that Tuesday night, which turned out to be the last set of numbers exchanged between the two sides, represents the most detailed picture yet of what a grand bargain might have looked like. It's a remarkable snapshot of the moment, not for the points of contention it exposes, but rather because it illustrates how much agreement Obama and Boehner had actually managed to find.
They had agreed to reduce discretionary spending -- meaning both the defense budget and money used to finance the rest of the government -- by about $1.2 trillion over 10 years; it would be up to Congress to figure out how. They also agreed to a list of programs from which they could cut at least $200 billion more in the coming decade. These included an estimated $44 billion from pensions for civilian and military employees of the government; $30 billion from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; $33 billion from farm subsidies and conservation programs; and $16 billion from reforming the Postal Service.
On entitlements too they had moved closer to a final deal. The White House agreed to cut at least $250 billion from Medicare in the next 10 years and another $800 billion in the decade after that, in part by raising the eligibility age. The administration had endorsed another $110 billion or so in cuts to Medicaid and other health care programs, with $250 billion more in the second decade. And in a move certain to provoke rebellion in the Democratic ranks, Obama was willing to apply a new, less generous formula for calculating Social Security benefits, which would start in 2015. (The White House had rejected Boehner's bid to raise the retirement age.) This wasn't quite enough for Boehner, nor was it as extensive as what the Gang of Six had proposed. But the speaker's team didn't consider the differences to be insurmountable, assuming the two sides could also settle on a revenue number.
The section on revenue, though, was one of two significant disagreements that were less easily brushed aside. Boehner's offer two days earlier, on Sunday, included several points to which he believed Daley and Geithner had essentially agreed. But in his counteroffer, written hours after the Gang of Six briefing, Obama had made some extensive changes to this section. To the $800 billion figure, he said he now wanted to add an amount equal to the cuts in Medicare and Medicaid -- an additional $360 billion, at least -- for a total of $1.16 trillion in total revenue. Aside from increasing the sheer amount, what Obama was doing, for the first time in the negotiation, was explicitly linking the amount of new revenue to the cuts Boehner wanted in entitlement programs. In other words, Obama's new formula meant that for every additional dollar in savings Boehner wanted to negotiate from Medicare or Medicaid, he was going to have to add a dollar of revenue.
This in itself was certainly enough to throw the deal into jeopardy. But the White House made still other changes that were problematic. Most notably, Boehner's team had insisted that when lawmakers sat down to design a new tax code, the $800 billion in additional revenue had to be a ''ceiling'' rather than a ''floor'' -- in other words, the final number generated through tax reform couldn't be more than $800 billion, but it could be less. That's because, as part of revising the code, Boehner intended to ask Congress for something called a ''macro estimate'' of the grand bargain's impact -- basically, a best guess as to the future revenues that would accrue once the lower rates kicked in and the economy started humming along. Democrats normally despise such projections, because they are used to support the conservative theory of supply-side economics. But the macro estimate was essential to Boehner; he needed it to make the argument that a decent chunk of the additional revenue could come through growth and stepped-up compliance, and thus Congress wouldn't need to actually raise anybody's rates to get it done. Boehner left that Sunday meeting convinced that Geithner, in particular, understood and accepted this condition.
But in his counteroffer, Obama had reversed the formulation so that the tax revenue figure -- now at $1.16 trillion -- would be the minimum that rewriting the code could achieve (a floor), rather than a maximum (a ceiling). With a slight turn of phrase, he rejected Boehner's entire premise that growth could be counted on to deliver some of the revenue. Boehner could seek all the macro estimates he wanted if it made him feel better, but he wouldn't be able to use those estimates to lower the amount of new tax revenue that Congress would need to collect.
White House aides would later insist that, despite their rough agreement on a framework the previous Sunday, the discussion about tax reform had always been fluid and unsettled, an ongoing negotiation in which both sides were still feeling out each other's limits. The Gang of Six briefing had no doubt complicated this negotiation, they agreed, but it wasn't as if they had signed on to something and then taken it back. If this is true, though, then it's true only in the technical sense. If you shake hands with a guy on the price of a car, and you agree to talk again after the car has been inspected and the loan has been approved, you don't really expect to show up and find out that car now costs $5,000 more. This is essentially what happened to Boehner. What both Tuesday's panicky calls from the White House and the subsequent counteroffer make clear is that Obama knew he was changing the terms and felt he had no choice.
The other remaining area of contention had to do with the problem of enforcement provisions, or ''triggers,'' in the deal. Because tax reform would take some time for Congress to puzzle out, while the spending cuts were relatively straightforward, the White House had been concerned from the start about being double-crossed. How could Democrats be assured that the Republican-controlled House wouldn't simply announce a deal, enact only the spending cuts they wanted and then sabotage the revenue piece? The answer, Obama's team decided, were a couple of ''triggers'' -- something both sides really hated -- that would automatically kick in if they didn't come up with a version of tax reform that each party could stomach.
Specifically, Obama had two triggers in mind. The first, for Democrats, would have rescinded the Bush tax cuts for the highest earners. Boehner rejected this idea. He pointed out that Democrats themselves would have little incentive to pass tax reform if, by not passing it, they could achieve one of their most cherished policy objectives -- the elimination of the Bush tax cuts.
The second trigger, to appease Republicans, would include an automatic $425 billion in cuts to Medicare and Medicaid over 10 years. But Boehner repeatedly said that he wanted his own ''political trophy'' as a trigger, something that had the same resonance for the right as the Bush tax cuts had for the left -- namely the elimination of the ''individual mandate,'' the central plank in Obama's health-care law that required every American to be insured. Striking down the provision was a top priority for the Tea Partiers in Congress, who saw it as evidence of Obama's tyrannical tendencies. Obama wouldn't entertain the possibility. The argument had been going on since the first round of negotiations between the two men and their staffs, but now that a deal seemed imminent, the question of how to enforce it had taken on a new urgency. At its core, the trigger debate was a matter of trust; each man had to be assured that the other wasn't going to let his party renege on the tax-reform agreement when the inevitable arguments arose. And because they hadn't worked together much and barely knew each other on a personal level, the only way for Obama and Boehner to feel reassured was if the political cost of pulling out was intolerably high to both of them.
Obama and Boehner argued heatedly but respectfully over both sticking points -- the revenue number and the triggers -- during a two-hour meeting in the Oval Office on Wednesday, July 20. By the next morning, both men were facing rebellions on the Hill. The Times's Carl Hulse and Jackie Calmes had written a front-page article disclosing the existence of the new round of talks and asserting that a deal was very near. Arriving for the weekly lunch of the Democratic Senate caucus, Jack Lew found himself berated by senators who were angered by the talk of entitlement cuts in exchange for the relatively paltry $800 billion in tax money, and livid at having heard about it from The Times. Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, had been fully briefed (along with the House leader, Nancy Pelosi) only the night before. He remained stonily and pointedly silent in the meeting, while Lew absorbed one verbal blow after another.
At that very moment, Boehner was dialing Rush Limbaugh's radio show, unbidden, in an effort to quell the eruption on the right. It wasn't only the additional revenue that conservatives hated. Having campaigned in 2010 against Obama's health-care plan, which included future Medicare cuts, conservatives in Congress were no more eager than Democrats to give the issue away in advance of 2012. (Their resistance to this part of the grand bargain highlighted what is perhaps the central paradox of budget politics on the right: Republicans have defined themselves almost entirely by their determination to reduce debt, but virtually every means of actually getting there -- taxes, defense cuts, restructuring entitlements -- strikes them as politically unpalatable.) ''There is absolutely no deal,'' Boehner assured Limbaugh on air.
And yet, even then, as powerful contingents in both parties rose up to oppose a deal that was already tenuous, negotiations were proceeding amiably and apace. At the White House that Thursday morning, July 21, Jackson, Loper, Nabors, Sperling and Lew, among other aides, agreed to set aside the revenue question and focus on hammering out some of the smaller discrepancies in the two offers. By now, a level of trust had grown among them; the mere fact that they had exchanged so much paper, and that none of it had been leaked to reporters or bloggers, seemed to cement their working relationship. To hear aides on both sides tell it, anyone who wandered into Nabors's West Wing office would have thought they were moving, inexorably and constructively, toward a final agreement.
In fact, Obama felt confident enough to tell Reid and Pelosi, during a meeting in the Oval Office that Thursday evening, that a grand bargain was imminent. The president told his Congressional leaders that he had given Boehner a choice: either the two sides could go for the bigger bargain that Obama wanted, with the nearly $1.2 trillion in revenue and the spending cuts they were already close to nailing down, or they could do a smaller version, with the original $800 billion in revenue but a smaller slate of cuts. Obama told Reid and Pelosi that he understood that this would seem like a choice between a bad deal and a worse deal, but he wanted a commitment from them that they would get behind the agreement. Neither of the Congressional leaders was wild about the prospect, but they quietly pledged they'd have the president's back.
Cantor and the Counteroffer
Like much of Washington, White House aides were perplexed by the relationship between Boehner and the man who was 14 years younger and next in line for his job, Eric Cantor. During one of a series of tense White House meetings with Congressional leaders in July, Obama's aides had been stunned -- even a little embarrassed -- to see Cantor, when asked for his opinion, directly contradict the speaker in front of the president. He insisted that the caucus would not accept the kind of sweeping deal that both leaders wanted. It struck Obama's aides as breach of Washington decorum, and it appeared to betray deeper divisions inside the Republican caucus. When Daley and Geithner were first invited by Boehner to his Capitol office to restart the negotiations in mid-July, they were surprised to find Cantor there too. It was one of the main reasons that the White House dared to hope a deal might work. They assumed that Cantor's presence meant that the two Republican leaders were now speaking with the same voice.
Cantor hadn't changed his mind about the grand bargain, however. Boehner had invited him to the meeting, just as he had invited Daley and Geithner, and there was little the majority leader could do in that situation other than accept. And from Cantor's perspective, it was better to be inside the room than not, which is what had happened during the first round of talks, when for 10 days he had been ignorant of the negotiations going on.
Cantor's objections weren't simply obstructionist. He didn't like the revenue piece -- partly on principle, and partly because he thought it would reignite the grass-roots insurgency that Washington Republicans had been desperately trying to keep under control, endangering the re-election of some members. A fight over taxes -- with the party's leaders arguing that government should get more money, rather than less -- might lead to outright insurrection and a breakaway third party. Cantor also didn't trust the White House to stand by a deal, warning that they would ultimately come back with more demands. Perhaps most important, Cantor was highly skeptical that a grand bargain -- with Boehner's $800 billion gambit already being called a tax increase by The Wall Street Journal's editorial page -- had any chance of passing the House.
This last point hinted at what was perceived inside the caucus as Boehner's primary vulnerability. Boehner had traveled an idiosyncratic path to the speakership, having never served as a House whip, the pivotal job of corralling and counting votes. He wasn't much of a closer, either; the more aggressive tactics that ''getting to yes'' sometimes required didn't come naturally to him. Boehner seemed to believe that his prestige as speaker would carry the day on key votes, but already that assumption had gotten him into trouble a few times, and other members of his leadership team had little faith in his predictions. Before the Gang of Six fiasco, Boehner estimated that he could round up something like 150 votes (out of 240 Republican members) for the grand bargain. Cantor and many other senior Republicans thought the number could be less than half of that.
By Thursday afternoon, when Cantor entered Boehner's office to consult on their next move, the speaker was in something of a box. The White House position was leaving Boehner little room to maneuver within his own caucus, and yet he was loath to see the deal unravel after getting so close, and with so little time left before the debt-limit standoff became a full-blown national crisis.
The speaker's story about this moment in the negotiations has always been remarkably consistent, and he and his aides have repeated it frequently in recent weeks, including to me. The additional revenue that Obama demanded was a ''nonstarter,'' he says. He did a ''gut check'' and decided that he could no longer trust the president, who obviously didn't have the courage to stand behind the deal they had made. And so Boehner had no choice but to walk away from the negotiations. He and Cantor, of like mind, reached this conclusion together.
It's a clean story of a man standing by his conservative principles. And yet the additional revenue wasn't, strictly speaking, a nonstarter. After all, Boehner wanted a deal badly enough to stay at the table for 48 hours after Obama ''moved the goal posts,'' which casts doubt on his claim that this breach of trust was an obvious dealbreaker. And at some point that Thursday, Boehner and his most senior aides at least entertained what would have been an astounding counteroffer to the president.
As part of a broader proposal, which has remained until now a closely held secret, Boehner was apparently open to meeting the president at the new, higher revenue target -- a concession that most likely would have meant abandoning the idea that no taxes would have to be raised. Had that counteroffer ever made it to Obama's desk, it's not hard to imagine that the grand bargain would have gotten done within 24 hours, at great political risk to both men. Whether it could have passed the House -- whether, in fact, any deal would ever have reached the president's desk -- is a question that will never be answered.
What happened, instead, based on extensive reporting, was this: Boehner raised the possibility of his counteroffer with Cantor on that Thursday afternoon, and Cantor dismissed the suggestion out of hand. He had always warned that the White House couldn't be trusted and would come back for more, and Obama's reversal on the revenue number had vindicated that view. Cantor made it clear he wasn't going to support any more counteroffers. He was pretty sure the caucus wouldn't either. No longer was Cantor content to be the skeptic in the room. He was now certain that the grand bargain was a practical impossibility.
Boehner talked to Obama a short while later. The president laid out the options as he would later relay them to Reid and Pelosi: more revenue and a bigger package, or the $800 billion and a smaller one. Boehner heard him out, but by then he must have known, from his discussions with Cantor and others, that neither option was going anywhere in his own caucus. It was one thing to risk your speakership on a grand bargain, which Boehner had without question been willing and even eager to do. It was another thing to throw that speakership away with little chance of success, which is what Obama was now asking of him.
The final act of the saga played out like the awkward undoing of a brief teenage romance, minus the texting and Facebook un-friending. At about 10 p.m. that Thursday, Obama placed a call to Boehner's cellphone to check in; when Boehner didn't pick up, the president left a voice-mail message. Late the next morning, Obama casually asked Daley if he'd heard from Boehner; Daley told him there was no word, and he added that he couldn't reach any of the speaker's aides either. And so the president waited anxiously, wondering why the speaker wasn't returning his call. As the hours passed, the mood in the West Wing turned from puzzlement to concern to anger. By the middle of the afternoon, rumors began to reach the White House from the Hill. Boehner had scheduled a briefing for reporters. He was telling people the deal was dead, and he was meeting with Reid and Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader in the Senate, to see if there was some other way to raise the debt limit.
When Boehner finally called back late that Friday afternoon, it was a perfunctory call between wounded suitors. Each man hung up and immediately went out to tell his side of the story, offering the versions -- Obama moved the goal posts, Boehner couldn't deliver -- that would soon become fixtures of Washington's double-sided reality. Both were essentially true, and yet incomplete.
Why didn't Boehner call back earlier on Friday? Any kid who has ever traded a Pokemon card knows that you don't walk away from a negotiation without at least leaving your best offer on the table. Boehner would say that he had run out of time and was certain Obama wouldn't budge. But there's a more persuasive theory, which is that Boehner didn't want to talk with Obama because he feared exactly the opposite -- that Obama would respond by offering him the original terms from the previous Sunday, and that Boehner would then find himself trapped. He had to now know that, despite his sense of himself as a persuasive statesman who could get his caucus to follow his lead, he couldn't get any deal past even his own leadership. It was safer for Boehner to walk away and accuse Obama of having sabotaged the deal than to risk that Obama would retreat to the earlier terms on which they had agreed, forcing the speaker to backtrack himself.
In the end, that's essentially what happened, anyway. The following day, Congressional leaders informed Obama that they were ready to offer a deal on their own. It would force another vote on the debt ceiling in 2012, and it would create a ''supercommittee'' of six lawmakers charged with finding massive spending reductions; if the committee failed, a slate of painful cuts would go into effect at the end of 2012. (Ultimately, the debt ceiling vote was pushed back to 2013, but the rest of the bill passed.) Obama hated it and made his anger known to the lawmakers who laid it out for him in the Oval Office. After that meeting, he called Boehner yet again, asking if they could just go back to the previous Sunday's handshake agreement. Boehner told him it was time to move on.
Boehner Betrayed?
From Boehner's perspective, it's not hard to see why he came away feeling Obama betrayed him. ''He had to have known that this was going to set my hair on fire,'' Boehner told me when we sat together in his office on the first day of March. He was seated in a leather chair by a marble fireplace, his cigarette smoldering in an ashtray at his side. Three aides sat nearby.
''You have to understand,'' he went on, ''there were hours and hours of conversation, and he would tell me more about my political situation than I ever would think about it, all right? So when you come in and all of a sudden you want $400 billion more -- he had to have known!'' Boehner shook his head, as if he was still puzzled by it all.
''Well, he did know,'' the speaker finally decided. ''He had to have known that he was driving this thing off a cliff.''
And yet, in the end, while both leaders had profound reservations about a grand bargain that would threaten their parties' priorities, what's undeniable, despite all the furious efforts to peddle a different story, is that Obama managed to persuade his closest allies to sign off on what he wanted them to do, and Boehner didn't, or couldn't. While Democratic leaders were willing to swallow either a deal with more revenue or a deal with less, Boehner's theoretical counteroffer, which probably reflected what he would have done if empowered to act alone, never even got a hearing from his leadership team.
Shortly before this article was published, Boehner issued a statement to me saying there was ''zero chance'' of them actually making a counteroffer late that week. But when I asked Boehner on the first day of March whether he had floated his counteroffer past Republican leaders other than Cantor, his reply was more ambiguous.
''I don't know that it ever got that far,'' Boehner said after a pause. ''Eric and I were comfortable with where we were. Did we think we were out on a limb? Yes. Did we think the president, if we came to an agreement, was going to be out on a limb? Yes. But I don't think us sitting in this room with the rest of the leaders, discussing exactly where we were . . . I'm not going to say it didn't happen. But the reason I feel that way is because I had a pretty good feel for what I thought the reaction was.'' Later, he told me flatly, ''I look at what happened last summer as the biggest disappointment I've had as speaker.''
Now, with another debt battle looming, the chance of resurrecting some kind of grand bargain doesn't seem very promising. Obama and Boehner have spoken only a handful of times. The administration's most driven dealmaker, Bill Daley, never recovered from the episode, which poisoned his relationship with Harry Reid, who blamed Daley for having kept him and other Senate leaders in the dark as the negotiations unfolded. Daley resigned in January and was replaced by Jack Lew -- the guy whom Boehner and his aides tried to sideline.
When I talked to Boehner about the two potential crises coming at year's end (the possibility of automatic budget cuts and, weeks later, another vote on the debt ceiling), he told me he was placing his hopes on getting a new president. ''I don't see any real evidence that this president has the courage to lead,'' he growled. He added that any comprehensive deal might be even harder to sell to his members this time around.
And yet the failed attempt at a grand bargain wasn't necessarily an unmitigated disaster. The ugly, months-long process of trying to avoid a meltdown over the debt ceiling may have further embittered a lot of ordinary Americans, but it also forced policy makers on both sides to wrestle with their own capacity for compromise. For weeks, in both the White House and in the speaker's office, the most influential aides in the country burrowed into spreadsheets and considered, in unusually specific terms, what kinds of budget cuts and revenue numbers they could live with.
They didn't get the sprawling deal they were after, but they did produce a serious blueprint for bipartisan reform, a series of confidential memos that left them just a few hundred billion dollars apart. That may sound like real money, and it is, but when you consider that the government can get some $25 billion back just by selling its broadcast spectrum, you begin to understand how bridgeable that difference is. What's clear now is that the only thing holding Washington back from a meaningful step toward reducing debt and modernizing government isn't any single policy dilemma, but rather the political dynamic that makes compromise such a mortal risk.
That dynamic could change after November. And however counterintuitive this may seem, it may be more apt to change if the cast of characters remains the same. Assume for the moment that Mitt Romney is elected president and is forced to confront, even before staffing his administration or taking the oath of office, an imminent budget crisis. Romney would have been elected despite the deep ambivalence of his own party's conservative base, whose support he would need in order to govern, and who would be watching his every blink for proof of ideological fealty. Does anyone really think he could risk infuriating that base, in his first move as president-elect, by hammering out a compromise that increases tax revenue and cuts Medicare?
Should Obama win re-election, on the other hand, he would face the impending crisis knowing that he had just run the final campaign of his life and that he had 18 months, at best, to solidify his legacy. Boehner might well find himself, two years removed from the Tea Party elections of 2010, with fewer extremists in his own caucus. And for all their residual bitterness and mistrust, they would both know that they still had a draft agreement that left them about 80 percent of the way there.
Near the end of our interview, I asked Boehner what he thought would happen when the two sides clashed again in several months. He took a drag on his cigarette.
''We're heading toward a very big moment, where big decisions are going to have to be made about the future of our country,'' he said blandly. Then he surprised me by rising quickly to his feet and clapping his hands. ''All right!'' he said, reaching for my hand. He was through talking, at least for now.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on April 1 about the debt-deal negotiations last summer misstated the eff ect on revenue if some tax cuts enacted under George W. Bush were allowed to persist. Those cuts, for taxpayers making $200,000 or less, would be more costly, not less, than the cuts for the most affluent taxpayers.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS: DRAWING (MM22-MM23)
SUNDAY, JULY 17, OVAL OFFICE. Speaker John Boehner, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, White House Chief of Staff Bill Daley and Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner meet with President Obama, where the framework for a deal is agreed upon. (MM25)
TUESDAY, JULY 19, CAPITOL BUILDING. Senator Mark Warner, left, and the rest of the Gang of Six brief fellow senators on their plan. (MM26)
THURSDAY, JULY 21, JOHN BOEHNER'S OFFICE. Relations have grown tense between Boehner and the White House. Trying to salvage a deal, Boehner floats the idea of a counteroffer to Cantor. (MM27)
 FRIDAY, JULY 22, OVAL OFFICE. After 24 hours of silence from Boehner, President Obama receives the call telling him the deal is off. (DRAWINGS BY ALEXANDER WELLS) (MM28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); TAX LAW (70%); MEDICARE (66%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); ERIC CANTOR (78%); MARK WARNER (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2012



35 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Your Choice for World Bank President?

BYLINE: RANJANI IYER MOHANTY


HIGHLIGHT: The United States has been able to say who will lead the World Bank since its creation in 1944. But the world has changed since then. Is it time for the Bank to change too? 

 BODY:
The nominations for the new president of the World Bank are closed. For the next several weeks the board of directors will be considering three candidates:
 Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, a Nigerian, has a doctorate in regional economics and development from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. She was the managing director of the World Bank from 2007 to 2011 and is currently the finance minister of Nigeria. Many think she's the natural choice for the next president. Her appointment would mean that a woman would lead the World Bank at the same time that a woman heads the International Monetary Fund
 Jos Antonio Ocampo, a Colombian, has been the United Nations under-secretary general for Economics & Social Affairs and the finance minister of Colombia. He has a doctorate in economics from Yale University and is currently a professor at Columbia University's School of International & Public Affairs in New York. He is known for leading Colombia through Latin America's financial crisis.
 Jim Yong Kim, a Korean-American, is a medical doctor and also has a Ph.D. in anthropology from Harvard University. He was a founder of Partners in Health, a nonprofit agency that developed a successful, replicable model to provide health care to the poor. He is president of Dartmouth College and is President Barack Obama's choice for president of the World Bank.
Normally that would be enough. Since the World Bank's inception in 1944, the president has always been an American because the United States is the largest stakeholder in the bank. However, the World Bank Group consists of 187 countries, and its main objective now is to loan money to poor countries. With the waning of the American economy and the waxing of developing countries, people have begun to wonder if the next president should come from outside the United States, perhaps from the developing world. 
Jeffrey Sachs wrote an op-ed arguing for a non-American president: "For too long, the bank's leadership has imposed U.S. concepts that are often utterly inappropriate for the poorest countries and their poorest people." 
Others have suggested the most qualified person be selected, regardless of nationality. An op-ed by three former World Bank executives (Francois Bourguignon, Nicholas Stern and Joseph Stiglitz) said: "Let the competition be open; let the U.S. and Europe live up to their words and let them behave as if it really is a World Bank."
Last week, the leaders of the BRICS countries mooted the idea of starting a separate development bank.
In such a climate and in these egalitarian times where we all can put in our 2 cents (or 1 rupee) via the Internet, who would you choose for the president of the World Bank? And what is the basis for your choice? Would you choose based on nationality or merit? Would you choose an academic, a politician, a financier, a development expert or someone with a variety of experience? Would you decide based on whether they came from a developed country or a rising economy?
Here are some of the names being discussed: Hillary Rodham Clinton (U.S. secretary of state), Indra Nooyi (C.E.O. of PepsiCo), Timothy F. Geithner (U.S. secretary of the treasury), Muhammad Yunus (Bangladeshi economist, a.k.a. "Banker to the Poor"), and Mr. Sachs (American economist, U.N. adviser and founder of Millennium Promise Alliance). Or you may choose from among the official nominees.
Who would be your choice for the next president of the World Bank, and why?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BRICS COUNTRIES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (53%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (52%) World Bank; Kim, Jim Yong; Okonjo-Iweala, Ngozi; Banking and Financial Institutions; Third World and Developing Countries; Featured; Your Say

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (55%) World Bank

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%) Kim, Jim Yong; Okonjo-Iweala, Ngozi

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); NIGERIA (94%); COLOMBIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



36 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: The Politics of Going to College

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: The presidential candidates have been talking a surprising amount about snobbery, tuition and just what a bachelor's degree is worth. 

 BODY:
An unexpected issue in the 2012 election is whether or not rank-and-file Americans should aspire to a college degree. Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum have both made comments about higher education that could come back to haunt them in a general election.
"President Obama once said he wants everybody in America to go to college. What a snob," Santorum told a Tea Party meeting in Troy, Mich., on Feb. 25. "I understand why he wants you to go to college. He wants to remake you in his image."
Romney, the all-but-certain nominee, was blunt when speaking in March at a metal assembly plant in Youngstown, Ohio: "It would be popular for me to stand up and say I'm going to give you government money to pay for your college, but I'm not going to promise that."
There is a partisan logic to the Republican hostility to higher education: the well-educated - a reliable source of conservative support as recently as the 1980s - have been moving steadily toward the Democratic Party. In a head-to-head contest, a March 26 McClatchy-Marist Poll shows Romney ahead of Obama 47-42 among those without college degrees, while Obama leads Romney 51-42 among those with them. Similarly, those without college degrees lean toward voting for Republican congressional candidates 49-40, while those with them lean toward Democrats 46-44.
Not only are Democrats making gains among the better-educated, but these voters are becoming a larger share of the electorate. Exit polls show the growth of the college-educated voting bloc.
In 1984, those with college and advanced degrees made up 35.3 percent of the electorate. Reagan's strongest margins were among the college educated, who backed him over Walter F. Mondale by a crushing 62.7-36.9 margin. Among all those with both college and advanced degrees, Reagan won 58.7 percent, a landslide margin.
Jump to 2008. Even though those with college degrees made up 27.9 percent of the population that year, they cast 45 percent of the presidential vote. These voters register and go to the polls in substantially higher numbers than the less well educated.
By 2008, the Republican advantage of the early 1980s among voters with a college degree or higher had disappeared. Barack Obama carried this demographic with 54.1 percent. He beat McCain 50-48 among those with bachelor's degrees, and by a decisive 58-40 among the 17 percent of the 2008 electorate with post-graduate degrees.
The shifting allegiance of the better-educated - together with the growth of such pro-Democratic constituencies as single women, Hispanics and African-Americans - has been a crucial factor in the revival of the Democratic Party as a fully competitive force in presidential elections. The party's gains have, in many respects, made up for losses among white working class voters.
In the 1970s and 1980s, the defection of Reagan Democrats gave the Republican Party a clear edge in national contests; by the 1990s and 2000s, the once reliably Republican affluent suburbs surrounding cities like New York and Philadelphia had moved in the opposite direction, empowering the Democratic Party to win the White House in 1992, 1996, and 2008, and the popular vote, if not the presidency, in 2000. By contrast, in the 1970s and 1980s, Republican presidential candidates won, on average, 59 percent of the upscale suburban vote.
The gains the Democrats made were concentrated in one major segment of the well-educated: professionals - salaried employees in schools and colleges, social workers, the arts, the natural and social sciences, knowledge/information workers, "symbol analysts," "creatives" and so forth.
Andrew Gelman, director of the Applied Statistics Center at Columbia University, has illustrated the voting trends among different job classifications in his book "Red State, Blue State, Rich State, Poor State: Why Americans Vote the Way They Do."
The graph below shows how professionals voted compared to the entire electorate.
At the same time, the percentage of the population employed in professional jobs has been growing steadily, from 16.4 percent of the workforce in 1970 to 22.2 percent in 2010.
While Democratic gains among those with undergraduate and advanced degrees have clearly benefitted the party, there are costs.
The replacement of working-class whites with upscale professionals has turned the Democratic coalition into an alliance with a built-in class division. Instead of representing the bottom half of the income distribution as it did from the 1930s to the 1960s, the party has become bifurcated, with roughly 60 percent of the base vote cast by relatively poor and heavily minority voters, and much of the remainder provided by relatively affluent social and cultural liberals.
While constituting a minority, the relatively upscale wing clearly dominates party policy and provides the majority of the activists who run campaigns, serve as delegates to the convention and have become the core of the party's donor base.
The leverage of the highly-educated wing is reflected in the priority placed on the culture war issues that are of key importance to this wing. Support for abortion rights and gay rights, for example, is an essential litmus test for Democratic presidential candidates. There is no parallel demand that candidates protect and expand food stamps, Medicaid, or other means-tested programs for the poor.
On the Republican side of the aisle, the aversion to federally funded scholarship aid - as demonstrated, for example, in the budget passed last week by the Republican House - has significant consequences for the party's core supporters.
The children of the white working class are in need of financial support to pay for tuition at a two or four-year colleges as a path to upward mobility. The overwhelming majority of Pell Grants, 63.3 percent, go to low income whites, while 11.8 percent goes to African-American students, 13.2 percent to Hispanics, 6.8 percent to Asian-Americans, and the rest to other groups.
This year, Romney will need to win by a wide margin among those for whom access to post-secondary education is a key issue - particularly white men whose wages have stagnated or eroded more than those of women.
The following chart, put together by the M.I.T. economists Daron Acemoglu and David Autor, shows what has happened to the wages of men with various levels of education working full time (high school dropout, high school graduate, some college, college graduate, greater than college).
For men without college degrees, 1972-3 marked - in economic terms - the best year of their lives, and earnings adjusted for inflation have gone downhill over the forty years since then. Only men with college degrees, and especially those with post-graduate degrees, did better in 2008 than they had in 1973.
A central theme of the Romney campaign is that he intends to replace the Democratic "entitlement state" with the restoration of America as "a land of opportunity and a beacon of freedom."
In the fight for Republican primary votes, it may make political sense for Santorum to mock higher education as the province of liberal elitists and for Romney to display deficit-consciousness by declaring his opposition to government assistance for college tuition.
In the general election, Romney faces a far tougher sell. Federal aid to education has strong, bipartisan support among voters, with more than 60 percent of Republicans and Democrats opposed to making any cuts, according to a Gallup poll from Jan. 26, 2011.
Romney's refusal to promise that he will "give you government money to pay for your college" is a risky approach to courting ambitious lower income voters. Democrats see Romney setting a trap for himself and have already begun to lay the general election groundwork.
The increasing salience of education provides Democrats with an effective means of countering the problem of an underperforming economy, as President Obama demonstrated in a speech on Feb. 27: "We can't allow higher education to be a luxury in this country. It's an economic imperative that every family in America has to be able to afford."
Romney, in turn, appears to recognize that he has stepped onto treacherous terrain. His Web site now declares: "Post-secondary education cannot become a luxury for the few; instead, all students should have the opportunity to attend a college that best suits their needs. Whether it is public or private, traditional or online, college must be available and affordable."
Still, Romney does not specify which actions he would have the federal government take to prevent post-secondary education from becoming a luxury for the few. Instead, his Web site trumpets the potential for initiatives at the state level, where Romney, speaking as a former governor himself, "knows what can be accomplished when governors are empowered to reform their education systems."

        
Rick Santorum's Anti-College Rant
        
The Renegade Republicans
        
The Outsourced Party
        
To Stop Iran, the G.O.P. Should Back Obama
        
The Hypocrite in Everyone Else

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); TUITION FEES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (67%) college affordability; college education; college tuition; decline in wages; Mitt Romney; President Obama; Rick Santorum; white working class morale

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK SANTORUM (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



37 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: In Egyptian Hard-Liner's Surge, New Worries for the Muslim Brotherhood

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Mayy El Sheikh contributed reporting from Cairo, and Steven Lee Myers from Istanbul.

 BODY:
CAIRO -- Hazem Salah Abu Ismail is an old-school Islamist.
He wants to move toward abolishing Egypt's peace treaty with Israel and cites Iran as a successful model of independence from Washington. He worries about the mixing of the genders in the workplace and women's work outside the home. And he promises to bring extraordinary prosperity to Egypt, if it turns its back on trade with the West.
He has also surged to become a front-runner in the race to become Egypt's next president, reconfiguring political battle lines here. His success may help explain why the United States offered signs of tacit approval over the weekend when the Muslim Brotherhood, Egypt's largest Islamic group, broke its pledge not to field its own candidate. 
With a first round of voting set for late May and a runoff in mid-June, the first presidential race here since the ouster of Hosni Mubarak last year is shaping up as a battle among Islamists.
The Brotherhood, which leads Parliament, had pledged not to seek the presidency for fear of provoking a backlash from the Egyptian military and the West. But Mr. Abu Ismail's surge raises the prospect that the winner might not be a more secular or liberal figure, but a strident Islamist who opposes the Brotherhood's pragmatic focus on stable relations with the United States and Israel and free-market economics.
Mr. Abu Ismail poses a subtler threat, too, challenging the Brotherhood's status as the main voice of Islamist politics in Egypt and threatening to undermine its campaign to set aside Western fears of political Islam. The Brotherhood is taking a considerable risk in running its own candidate against him, since its victory is by no means assured.
And so, in a remarkable inversion, American policy makers who once feared a Brotherhood takeover now appear to see the group as an indispensable ally against Egypt's ultraconservatives, exemplified by Mr. Abu Ismail.
American diplomats -- surprised by the success of ultraconservative, populist Islamists known as Salafis in parliamentary elections -- have watched Mr. Abu Ismail with growing alarm.
On Sunday, speaking on condition of standard diplomatic anonymity, State Department officials said they were untroubled and even optimistic about the Brotherhood's reversal of its pledge not to seek the presidency. The Brotherhood's candidate, Khairat el-Shater, a millionaire businessman considered the most formative influence on the group's policies, is well known to both American diplomats and their contacts in the Egyptian military. Though in and out of prison, he was the Brotherhood's main point of contact with Mr. Mubarak's security services and is now its main conduit for talks with the council of generals who took power at his ouster.
Mr. Shater has met with almost all the senior State Department officials and American lawmakers visiting Cairo. He is in regular contact with the American ambassador, Anne Patterson, as well as the executives of many American companies here, and United States officials have praised his moderation as well as his intelligence and effectiveness.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, in Istanbul on Sunday for a meeting on Syria, declined to comment on the Brotherhood's reversal on fielding a candidate or on Mr. Shater. Instead, she said that the United States was watching all the candidates for their commitments to uphold basic rights. ''We want to see Egypt move forward in a democratic transition, and what that means is you do not and cannot discriminate against religious minorities, women, political opponents,'' she said. ''There has to be a process -- starting in an election -- that lays down certain principles that will be followed by whoever wins the election. That is what we want for the Egyptian people.''
A new poll set for release on Monday by the Al Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies, a state-financed research group, offered the first measure of Mr. Abu Ismail's growing popularity. In a randomized survey of 1,200 Egyptians in recent weeks, Mr. Abu Ismail had jumped to second place from fourth or fifth place in polls taken last year, said Diaa Rashwan, a researcher at the Center.
The poll did not include Mr. Shater or any Brotherhood candidate. Amr Moussa, a former diplomat under Mr. Mubarak and political celebrity with high name recognition, remained the front-runner, with the support of about 33 percent of the respondents. But Mr. Abu Ismail was gaining on him, with about 22 percent. A liberal Islamist, Abdel Moneim Aboul Fotouh, won the support of about 8 percent, and another Islamist moderate, Mohammad Salim al-Awa, had about 4 percent.
The plan for a runoff increases the Islamists' chances. If no one wins a majority in the first vote in May, the top two vote-getters will enter a June runoff. And any relatively secular candidate such as Mr. Moussa will have a hard time beating any of the Islamists then, given that the Brotherhood and other Islamists won about three-quarters of the seats in Parliament.
A spokesman for Mr. Abu Ismail's campaign said Sunday that Mr. Shater's entry into the race would help Mr. Abu Ismail by taking votes from Mr. Aboul Fotouh, a former Brotherhood leader still popular with its rank and file.
But Mr. Rashwan of Al Ahram predicted a hard-to-handicap face-off between Mr. Shater and Mr. Abu Ismail. While Mr. Shater has the backing of the Brotherhood's formidable political machine, Mr. Rashwan said, Mr. Abu Ismail is more charismatic. And in addition to his support from those who favor his conservative religious ideas, Mr. Abu Ismail also benefits from populist appeals to Egypt's poor and marginalized. Mr. Shater, in contrast, is a wealthy businessman and politician. ''He is part of the elite,'' Mr. Rashwan said.
He also noted that the Brotherhood's members have benefited from sympathy and admiration as victims of the Mubarak government's repression when they were its main opposition. But the Egyptian media usually refers to Mr. Shater as the Brotherhood's ''strongman,'' and Mr. Rashwan said he inspired ''fear,'' not ''sympathy.''
Mr. Abu Ismail's campaign posters already blanket the walls and car windows of Cairo. Last Tuesday, he was mobbed like a rock star at Cairo University. On Friday, busloads of his supporters staged a parade to deliver his formal application for candidacy, stopping traffic across the city.
''American and Israel pay enormous sums of money to control the whole society,'' he declared at a rally last week. ''We can't be preoccupied by the issues of daily life rather than stand up to them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters of Hazem Salah Abu Ismail displayed his image on posters on Friday in Cairo, where they delivered his formal application for candidacy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASMAA WAGUIH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (89%); RELIGION (88%); 2011 EGYPTIAN PROTESTS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); POLITICS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%) EGYPT (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



38 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Plan on Credit Ratings

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
COPENHAGEN -- European Union finance ministers agreed on Saturday to increase competition among credit ratings agencies and to continue difficult discussions on taxing certain financial transactions.
At the end of a two-day gathering here, Margrethe Vestager, Denmark's economics minister, announced that the ministers had reached an agreement to require companies to rotate ratings agencies to prevent conflicts of interest and encourage more competition.
Ms. Vestager said it would be important to make any such rules ''applicable in the real world because, you know, the market for credit rating is rather limited.'' 
A European law requiring companies to rotate agencies, and in turn encourage ratings competitors to enter the market, could have major implications for companies like Fitch Ratings, Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's, the big three global providers that are based in the United States and have dominated the sector.
Over the past two years, European leaders have repeatedly accused the agencies of exacerbating the sovereign debt crisis by unfairly downgrading countries' creditworthiness and further driving up their costs of borrowing.
Last year, Michel Barnier, the European commissioner responsible for financial services, proposed that companies be forced to change every three years the company that they pay to rate their credit, or every six years if they hired more than one ratings agency.
He also said that financial institutions should be allowed to rely less on the agencies and be obliged to make their own assessments.
Those rules still need to be approved by governments and the European Parliament, and Mr. Barnier's proposals on the frequency of rotation could be modified. A longer phasing-in period for the rules could also be added.
Even so, the political support shown by the ministers on Saturday for rotation could mean that Europe will reach an agreement on a new law regulating ratings agencies in the summer.
The discussions on ratings agencies followed the finance ministers' decision on Friday to increase the size of a bailout fund for the euro zone to about $1 trillion.
That decision was overshadowed by a disagreement between the Austrian finance minister, Maria Fekter, and Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the Eurogroup of euro zone finance ministers, over who got to announce the deal first.
Mr. Juncker canceled a scheduled news conference after Ms. Fekter upstaged him with an impromptu announcement.
Ministers avoided acrimony on Saturday in a discussion about creating a so-called financial transaction tax, a proposal that has drawn fierce criticism from Sweden and Britain.
Proponents say such a mechanism could help recoup vast sums of money that governments have spent to save banks by levying a tax on most share, derivative and bond trades. But opponents warn that such a tax would push banks and other financial institutions to abandon European financial centers like the City of London and could ultimately leave European governments with less revenue.
In a sign that the governments could be preparing the path to a compromise, Anders Borg, the Swedish finance minister, said he could support a more modest levy known as a stamp duty that mainly taxes shares.
''Something in line with the French stamp duty or the British stamp duty'' would be less costly for the economy and could be acceptable to Sweden and Britain, Mr. Borg said in comments on the margins of the meeting.
''There are some positive signs on this,'' he said, adding that he had agreed to join a working group on the issue at the invitation of the German finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EURO (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); BOND MARKETS (70%); EXTERNAL DEBT (67%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (70%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (89%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); DENMARK (92%); SWEDEN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



39 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Can Privatization Kill?

BYLINE: By THOMAS GAMMELTOFT-HANSEN. 
Thomas Gammeltoft-Hansen is a senior researcher at the Danish Institute for International Studies and a co-editor of the forthcoming book ''The Migration Industry.''

 BODY:
ON Oct. 12, 2010, Jimmy Mubenga was deported from Britain. The 46-year-old Angolan had come to the country as a refugee 16 years earlier. But after his involvement in a pub brawl and a subsequent criminal conviction, the government ordered his deportation. Three private security guards escorted him through Heathrow Airport and onto British Airways Flight 77 to Luanda, Angola. The exact details of what followed are still unclear and currently subject to criminal investigation.
Several passengers onboard the plane reported that Mr. Mubenga repeatedly complained that he could not breathe and that he was being held down with his head between his knees by security guards. As the airplane taxied to the runway in London, Mr. Mubenga lost consciousness and later died. 
Immigration control has traditionally been viewed as an inalienable sovereign function of the state. But today migration management has increasingly been taken over by private contractors. Proponents of privatization have been keen to argue that the use of contractors does not mean that governments lose control. Yet, privatization introduces a corporate veil that blurs both public oversight and legal accountability.
Despite efforts to introduce outside supervisors, performance reports and other monitoring mechanisms, the private nature of these companies breaks the ordinary administrative chain of command, placing both governments and the public at a disadvantage in terms of ensuring transparency.
Private companies seldom have an interest in securing public oversight, as any criticism may entail negative economic consequences. Australasian Correctional Management, which ran detention centers in Australia from 1998 to 2004, was known to require medical staff members or teachers entering its facilities to sign confidentiality agreements preventing them from disclosing any information regarding detainees or the administration of the centers. Being foreigners, migrants and refugees have always had a hard time gaining access to outside complaint mechanisms and advocacy institutions. As an employee in charge of reviewing disciplinary cases at a Corrections Corporation of America facility in Houston once told a reporter from this paper, ''I'm the Supreme Court.''
The corporate veil also distorts lines of legal responsibility. Human rights law is largely designed on the presumption that it is states and not private companies that exercise sovereign powers like detention or border control. Legally holding governments accountable for human rights violations by contractors requires an additional step showing that it is the state and not just the corporation or individual employee that is responsible for the misconduct.
Mr. Mubenga's case is not unique. Numerous reports have been filed about misconduct, violence and abuse perpetrated by contractors carrying out migration functions. The three security guards responsible for deporting Mr. Mubenga worked for the Anglo-Danish security company G4S. Before Mr. Mubenga's death, G4S held the exclusive contract with the U.K. Border Agency to provide escorts for immigration detainees deported from the country. The firm subsequently lost this contract, but this didn't end its involvement in managing migration.
As the world's largest security company with more than 650,000 employees, G4S is involved in a plethora of migration functions all over the world, from operating immigration detention centers in Britain to carrying out passenger screening at airports in Europe, Canada and the Middle East. In America, G4S operates a fleet of custom-built fortified buses that serve as deportation transports for illegal migrants caught along the United States-Mexico border. Just last month, the U.K. Border Agency signed a new contract with G4S worth up to $337 million to house asylum seekers.
G4S's success in this market shows that deportation, detention and border control have become big business. Boeing's current contract to set up and operate a high-tech border surveillance system along the United States-Mexico border is worth $1.3 billion and involves nearly 100 subcontractors. The Florida-based Geo Group -- one of G4S's main competitors -- manages 7,000 detention beds in the United States and, until recently, at the Guantanamo Bay detention center, where migrants intercepted in the Caribbean are transferred. N.G.O.s and international organizations profit, too. In 2010, the International Organization for Migration was paid $265 million to assist governments in returning migrants to their home countries, among other activities.
The migration control industry covers not only detention and deportations but also border control. Many airlines today employ former immigration officers or themselves contract security companies to perform the document, forgery and profiling checks required by destination states. In Israel, the West Bank checkpoints are gradually being transferred to private security companies.
Placing responsibility at lower levels may serve to insulate governments from lawsuits. In the Mubenga case, the three private security guards involved in the deportation were initially arrested. Following accusations from G4S employees that senior management had repeatedly ignored internal warnings about poor training and unsafe restraint techniques, charges against the company are now being considered. Yet none of these lawsuits are likely to address whether the U.K. Border Agency should face criminal liability for Mr. Mubenga's death because of its decision to outsource deportations in the first place.
Even if governments want to re-establish state control over migration, it isn't so easy. Political promises to renationalize immigration detention centers in Britain have so far remained unfulfilled despite repeated reports of abuse and mistreatment. And privatization, once pursued, is difficult to reverse.
The United States discovered this when, in the aftermath of 9/11, it was faced with the challenge of hiring 45,000 employees for the newly established Transportation Security Administration to recoup sovereign control over previously private airport security. And private contractors work to shape policy as well. When Arizona's notorious SB 1070 immigration bill was passed, 30 out of 36 co-sponsors had received donations from private prison companies or their lobbyists.
Today, government outsourcing has given rise to an industry that encompasses nearly every aspect of migration management in countries across the globe. This shift comes at a price: It eliminates government accountability and runs roughshod over the rights of those subjected to private corporations' control. And unless governments reassert control over what used to be a core sovereign function of the state, many more Jimmy Mubengas are likely to die.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KEITH NEGLEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); DEPORTATION (90%); MISCONDUCT (89%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); PRISONS (77%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (77%); AIRLINES (76%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (74%); PRISON PRIVATIZATION (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (66%)

COMPANY: CORRECTIONS CORP OF AMERICA (82%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%)

TICKER: CXW (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561210 FACILITIES SUPPORT SERVICES (82%); NAICS487110 SCENIC & SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION, LAND (82%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) ANGOLA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



40 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Newly in Business, and Finding a Lifeline

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
Erica Molina was standing where she usually stands at lunchtime, in the middle of her 116 square feet -- an irregularly shaped booth in the Essex Street Market on the Lower East Side. She was talking about the $5,000 loan that had allowed her to buy the counter she was leaning on and the used refrigerator behind her when a delivery arrived.
It was a box marked ''electric griddle.'' 
That, too. ''For quesadillas,'' she explained.
Ms. Molina and her business partner, Jesse Kramer, turned to an unconventional source for the money to keep their Brooklyn Taco Company food stand afloat last year: Accion East, an arm of a nonprofit microlender that specializes in small loans to entrepreneurs who, like Ms. Molina and Mr. Kramer, have not been in business long.
Microlending, pioneered by the Nobel Peace Prize winner Muhammad Yunus in Bangladesh, has surged in the United States in recent years. As credit markets seized up and the recession deepened -- and as credit card companies tightened their rules, because many startups add substantial balances on the owners' credit cards -- microlenders provided cash infusions to keep small businesses from going under. Gina Harman, the chief executive of Accion, the US Network, which is the parent of Accion East, said the typical loan totaled $7,000.
Ms. Harman said that Accion had arranged nearly 13,000 loans totaling more than $94.5 million in the New York region in the 21 years it has been in business. Roughly 80 percent of the money went to immigrants or minorities, Ms. Harman said.
''These loans, on average, create two and a half jobs, which is consistent with the fact that the small business sector has been the only sector to contribute net increases in the last 10 years,'' she said. ''So when a small business is supported, the business generates revenue, it becomes part of the tax base and it adds to the stability in communities and employment, which makes a $7,000 loan a pretty efficient tool for driving the economy.''
By a bank loan officer's standards, $7,000 is almost microscopic -- except, perhaps, as the unpaid balance on a much larger loan. But Ms. Harman has taken her small-business mantra to the heart of big business: On a recent Wednesday, she rang the closing bell at the New York Stock Exchange as part of the announcement of a job-growth program called the NYSE Big StartUp. With it, Accion started a job-growth fund with a $1.5 million commitment from NYSE Euronext. The Big StartUp calls for bigger businesses to lend support and resources to startups and small companies.
The stock exchange program is aimed at opening doors, which is what Ms. Molina said Accion East had done for Brooklyn Taco. The loan, she said, ''helped us build credit and let other creditors know we are people who pay.''
Brooklyn Taco already owed JPMorgan Chase $10,000 from a loan with a 7 percent interest rate. Ms. Molina said that before she found Accion, she had sold her apartment and had been using that money to keep Brooklyn Taco going.
Like all lenders, microlenders look at an applicant's credit score and history when deciding whether to approve a loan. Before the recession, the average credit score of an Accion customer was below 600, Ms. Harman said. In 2008, Accion set a minimum credit score of 575, in part to minimize the risk to Accion's own portfolio.
''It was a way of focusing on businesses that could afford to take on additional debt and provide the right support sources for those who couldn't,'' Ms. Harman said. ''There needed to be a way to separate one from the other. The credit score helped us do that.''
In fact, Ms. Harman said, Accion's borrowers had been more dependable than many bank borrowers. In 2011, she said, Accion's delinquency rate was 4 percent in New York City. ''Banks build their models on 25 percent,'' said Ms. Harman, who was a community advocate and a union organizer in her 20s before becoming the president of the consumer division of a company her father had started, Harman International, which included the Harman Kardon brand of audio equipment.
Unlike many banks, microlenders like Accion happily make loans to home-based businesses, as Alicia Piller discovered when she started selling her costume jewelry and hand-painted clothing.
''It's scary to me to get a loan from a bank,'' said Ms. Piller, who started her business in her apartment in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, and recently moved to Prospect Park South. ''Banks are like the scary monster.''
Ms. Molina said her next dream was to open a restaurant in Vermont, or maybe in San Francisco.
Why Vermont? she was asked.
''It's about two hours from Montreal,'' she said.
Montreal? What is so special about Montreal?
''Butter,'' she said. ''Great butter. It's creamier. I just want to have it. We don't even use it here, but I have a personal preference for croissants.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROFINANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (84%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); CREDIT CARDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RECESSION (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: NYSE EURONEXT INC (51%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

TICKER: NYX (PAR) (51%); NYX (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); BANGLADESH (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



41 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include the I.S.M. manufacturing index for March and construction spending for February (Monday); factory orders for February (Tuesday); ADP employment for March and I.S.M. nonmanufacturing for March; weekly jobless claims and unemployment for March and consumer credit for February (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to report results include Bed Bath & Beyond and Monsanto (Wednesday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, a House small business subcommittee will conduct a field hearing in Pittsburgh about the effect of trade policies on small businesses and manufacturing.
On Tuesday, automakers will report their North American sales for March, the Federal Open Market Committee will release the minutes of its March 13 meeting, and Carlos Ghosn, the chief executive of Nissan Motor, will unveil the taxi that will replace New York City's fleet starting in 2013.
On Wednesday and Thursday, the New York International Auto Show will be open to the press for previews. It will open to the public on Friday.
On Thursday, retailers will report their same-store sales for March.
On Friday, stock markets in the United States will be closed in observance of Good Friday. The bond market will close at noon.
OVERSEAS On Tuesday, Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, will speak to the annual convention of The Associated Press. On Wednesday, the European Central Bank will issue a decision about interest rates. On Thursday, the Bank of England will issue a decision about interest rates.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EASTER SEASON (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); SAME STORE SALES (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); NEW CAR MODELS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); MONETARY POLICY (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); BONDS (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); TRADE SHOWS (68%); INTEREST RATES (64%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (57%); MONSANTO CO (57%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (56%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%); BANK OF ENGLAND (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

TICKER: BBBY (NASDAQ) (57%); MON (NYSE) (57%); 7201 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (57%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (57%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (57%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (55%); CARLOS GHOSN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



42 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: Ranks of Working Poor Grow in Europe

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN; Maia de le Baume contributed reporting.

 BODY:
PARIS -- When Melissa Dos Santos leaves her job at the end of each day, she goes home to an unlikely place: a tiny trailer in a campground 30 miles north of Paris, where scores of people who can barely make ends meet are living on a sprawling lot originally designed as a bucolic retreat for vacationers.
''I grew up in a house; living in a campground isn't the same,'' Ms. Dos Santos, 21, said wistfully.
Her dreams of a more normal life in an apartment with her boyfriend evaporated when they both took minimum-wage jobs -- she in a supermarket and he as a Paris street sweeper -- after months of searching fruitlessly for better-paying work. ''People call us marginal,'' she said. ''Little by little, it's eating us up.'' 
Europe's long-running euro crisis may be cooling. But the economic distress it has left in its wake is pushing a rising tide of workers into precarious straits in France and across the European Union. Today, hundreds of thousands of people are living in campgrounds, vehicles and cheap hotel rooms. Millions more are sharing space with relatives, unable to afford the basic costs of living.
These people are the extreme edge of Europe's working poor: a growing slice of the population that is slipping through Europe's long-vaunted social safety net. Many, particularly the young, are trapped in low-paying or temporary jobs that are replacing permanent ones destroyed in Europe's economic downturn.
Now, economists, European officials and social watchdog groups are warning that the situation is set to worsen. As European governments respond to the crisis by pushing for deep spending cuts to close budget gaps and greater flexibility in their work forces, ''the population of working poor will explode,'' said Jean-Paul Fitoussi, an economics professor at L'Institut d'Etudes Politiques in Paris.
To most Europeans, and especially the French, it seems this should not be happening. With generous minimum wage laws and the world's strongest welfare systems, Europeans are accustomed to thinking they are more protected from a phenomenon they associate with the United States and other laissez-faire economies.
But the European welfare state, designed to ensure that those without jobs are provided with a basic income, access to health care and subsidized housing, is proving ill-prepared to deal with the steady increase in working people who do not make enough to get by.
The trend is most alarming in hard-hit countries like Greece and Spain, but it is rising even in more prosperous nations like France and Germany.
''France is a rich country,'' Mr. Fitoussi said. ''But the working poor are living in the same condition as in the 19th century. They can't pay for heating, they can't pay for their children's clothes, they are sometimes living five people in a nine-square-meter apartment -- here in France!'' he exclaimed, speaking of an apartment of about 100 square feet.
In 2010, the latest year for which data were available, 8.2 percent of workers in the 17 European Union countries that use the euro were living under the region's average poverty threshold of 10,240 euros, or about $13,500, a year for single adult workers, up from 7.3 percent in 2006, according to Eurostat. The situation is nearly twice as bad in Spain and Greece.
While direct comparisons are difficult because of different standards, the Labor Department estimated that 7 percent of single adult workers in the United States earned less than the poverty threshold in 2009 of $10,830 in 2009, up from 5.1 percent in 2006.
France fares better than most European countries, at 6.6 percent, but perhaps nowhere is the phenomenon more startling. While the country seems to exude prosperity, the number of working poor is up from 6.1 percent in 2006, and experts predict it will grow.
In France, half the nation's workers earn less than $25,000.
The median monthly paycheck is $2,199, 26 percent above the average for the entire European Union. But the high cost of living and the difficulty many people face securing affordable housing (home prices have surged 110 percent in the last decade, and most rentals require large advance deposits), leaves a growing number out in the cold.
Ms. Dos Santos and her boyfriend, Jimmy Collin, 22, moved to the trailer because they did not want to live with their families and lacked upfront money for an apartment. Mr. Collin, a high school graduate with some additional technical training, searched for work for more than six months before landing a minimum-wage contract last year, at $1,800 a month, cleaning streets near Parisian jewels like the Eiffel Tower. He gets a small government stipend for low-income earners, but they still found it hard to save after paying taxes and living expenses. The wait for subsidized housing is more than five years.
Ms. Dos Santos, also a high school graduate, jumped at the job at a Carrefour supermarket after she failed to find work through one of France's national employment centers, where counselors meant to handle 120 cases have been overwhelmed lately with up to 500 each. But her boss will not let her work more than 35 hours a week, and she cannot find supplemental jobs.
''It holds people back,'' she said.
Today, up to 120,000 people are living in French campgrounds, according to Observatoire des Inegalites, a social watchdog group. While it is not a new phenomenon, officials say it is accelerating.
And even some people with middle-class jobs are living on the edge.
Bruno Duboscq, 55, a human-resources manager at a small company in central Paris, moved into a recreational vehicle in the parking lot of the Chateau de Vincennes, a splendid 12th-century castle in eastern Paris, three years ago when the expense of a small apartment left him with too little money at the end of the month.
''People at work were shocked when they found out I live in a camper,'' said Mr. Duboscq, who is near retirement and hopes the extra savings will tide him over when he is no longer working. ''It's getting harder to get by.''
One February evening, as the thermometer showed minus 6 Celsius (21 degrees Fahrenheit), he opened the door to his camper and showed off a small kitchen, a TV, two beds and a tiny shower. Living in an official campground would have been better, but at about $40 a day, he said, it was too expensive.
Yet Mr. Duboscq is better off than most of his neighbors. ''There is more and more misery around,'' he said, gazing at a row of snow-swept vehicles outside. ''There are many people, especially young people, living in their cars here,'' he said. ''They are not well paid, it's hard to afford an apartment, and the price of everything has risen considerably.''
Many of them are on temporary contracts that employers are increasingly using to replace permanent jobs, which carry benefits and job protections that many employers are reluctant to take on. Contract labor has surged in the last several years and is set to increase as politicians in France and elsewhere encourage their use as a way to reduce high unemployment. But numerous recent studies by economists and social groups warn they may increase in-work poverty, because they pay less and have fewer benefits.
In 2011, temporary contracts accounted for 50 percent of all new hires in the European Union, according to Eurostat.
Isabelle Maquet-Engsted, a senior analyst at the European Commission in Brussels, said political efforts to encourage temporary work may only paper over the problems that Europe has in generating solid economic growth and well-paying jobs. ''We have signs that things are not going to get better, because the jobs being created are those that carry a higher risk of poverty,'' she said.
For those who cannot find work after a temporary contract expires, the situation can become dire.
In the Bois de Vincennes, a park behind the parking lot where Mr. Duboscq lives, Jean, 51, an electrician who would give only his first name, warmed his hands recently over a fire in a small oil drum. He used to rent a tiny Paris studio, he said, but moved to a tent hidden in the woods three months ago after a fixed-term job expired and he was unable to secure other lodging.
By day, the forest is a playground for young urbanites. At night, however, it is home to an estimated 200 people, including families with children. Some are French, some are immigrants from Eastern Europe and North Africa.
Like many tent shelters, Jean's is quasi-permanent. With his neighbors, he shares a rickety table and a shelf stocked with sugar, salt and an old teapot. Strips of meat hung frozen on a clothesline.
''I never dreamed I would be here,'' Jean said. ''But my contracts ran out, and at my age, it's getting harder to find new ones.''
Matthieu, 31, a construction worker living on fixed-term jobs, wonders why European leaders seem focused more on protecting financial institutions than on helping people like him.
France enjoys a beautiful image, he said one recent evening in the Chateau de Vincennes parking lot. ''But it's not like Anglo-Saxon countries,'' he said. ''There, you arrive, you know how to do something -- you can climb. That's the American dream.
''Never anywhere in the world do you hear anyone talking about the French dream,'' he added, pausing to look at the row of campers. ''There is no such dream in France.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Melissa Dos Santos, 21, and Jimmy Collin, 22, who both have minimum-wage jobs, live in a tiny trailer in a campground. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CORENTIN FOHLEN FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE)
In the Bois de Vincennes in Paris. Jean, 51, an electrician who has had trouble finding long-term work, used to have a studio apartment but now lives here. (A4)
 In the parking lot of the Chateau de Vincennes in eastern Paris, where campers have become home for some people unable to afford an apartment or even an official campground. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIAM DANIELS FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TRENDS (76%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (75%); COST OF LIVING (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); BUDGETS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (68%); BUDGET CUTS (65%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (65%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%) EUROPE (97%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (71%); GREECE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



43 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.07 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.14 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.04 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
MONDAY
Florida Department of Transportation, $310 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
TUESDAY
Des Moines, $71.9 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Orange County, Fla., $98 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
San Jose, Calif., $100 million of East Side Union high school district general obligation bonds. Competitive.
WEDNESDAY
Delaware Transportation Authority, $203 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Michigan, $225 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Virginia Beach, $65 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Arizona State University, $219 million of revenue and refinancing bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Broward County, Fla., $269 million of certificates of participation. Bank of America.
Bryan, Tex., $63.9 million of electric system revenue refinancing and improvement bonds. Barclays Capital.
California Communities Development Authority, $1.7 billion of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
Fordham University, N.Y., $50 million of debt securities. Bank of America
Fort Bend County, Tex., $65 million of unlimited tax road bonds. Siebert Brandford Shank.
New Jersey Economic Development Authority, $1.1 billion of cigarette tax revenue refinancing bonds. Bank of America.
San Diego Public Facilities Financing Authority, $191.2 million of water revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
South Carolina Public Service Authority, $575 million of revenue bonds. Barclays Capital.
University of Tampa, $80 million of debt securities. Wells Fargo Securities.
Vermont Educational and Health Buildings Financing Agency, $58.3 million of revenue refinancing bonds. Goldman Sachs.
Vermont Housing Finance Agency, $75 million of tax-exempt debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
Virginia Small Business Financing Authority, $675 million of senior lien revenue bonds. Barclays Capital.
West Virginia Economic Development Authority, $115 million of lease revenue refinancing bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (95%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (68%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (66%); SMALL BUSINESS (50%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (83%); NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (66%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (83%); BAC (LSE) (83%); 8648 (TSE) (83%); GS (NYSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



44 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 766 words

PERSON: Miguel de la Madrid, 

HEADLINE: Miguel de la Madrid, 77, Dies; Led Mexico in the 1980s

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY; Elisabeth Malkin contributed reporting from Mexico City.

 BODY:
Miguel de la Madrid, a former president of Mexico whose derided handling of the earthquake that devastated Mexico City in 1985 was the beginning of the end for the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party, died Sunday morning in Mexico City. He was 77 .
His death was confirmed by his office. No cause was specified, but Mr. de la Madrid had been hospitalized with emphysema for the past three months, said his private secretary, Delia Gonzalez. 
A Harvard-educated technocrat, Mr. de la Madrid was elected in 1982 and presided over one of the most difficult six-year terms of any Mexican leader. He inherited an economy in crisis. After Mexico borrowed against oil revenues, it defaulted on its foreign debt. As inflation roared past 100 percent and unemployment reached 25 percent, the country struggled to apply free-market principles to what had been a closed economy.
To deal with the foreign debt emergency, Mr. de la Madrid imposed austerity measures that were widely unpopular. But he is credited with setting Mexico on a path toward a free-market economy, which culminated in the country's entering into the North American Free Trade Agreement with the United States and Canada in 1994.
The most memorable event of his time in office was the magnitude 8.1 earthquake that leveled buildings across the capital on the morning of Sept. 19, 1985, and left an estimated 10,000 people dead. Mr. de la Madrid was seemingly absent for the first day and a half after the quake, and he initially refused international aid and played down damage that was obvious to all. When Mexicans saw that their government was failing to act, they cleared debris and searched for survivors on their own, giving rise to citizens' groups that would later challenge Mexico's authoritarian politics.
A beneficiary of the system known in Mexico as el dedazo, the finger tap, Mr. de la Madrid was the anointed successor of President Jose Lopez Portillo. Mr. de la Madrid would also handpick the next president, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, but that transition would not go smoothly.
A fierce critic of Mr. de la Madrid's rule, Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, joined with other reformers in the P.R.I., as the Institutional Revolutionary Party is known, to call for a more transparent selection process for presidential candidates. Such internal criticism was considered treasonous by party hard-liners, and Mr. de la Madrid said: ''As far as I'm concerned, let them go. Let them form another party.''
They did, and although Mr. Cardenas failed to defeat Mr. Salinas, the 1988 election would be marred by irregularities, including the crash of the government computer used to count votes. It was the first time in generations that the ruling party's victory was not a foregone conclusion.
Twelve years later, when Vicente Fox won the presidency representing the opposition National Action Party, the P.R.I. would finally lose its grip on Mexico.
Calling him a ''gray president,'' Lorenzo Meyer, a historian, said Mr. de la Madrid had been unlucky to inherit such a grave economic crisis and proved unable to extract the country from it. Mr. de la Madrid, Mr. Meyer said, was the father of Mexico's political opposition, since it was his stubbornness that gave rise to it.
Future presidents learned from Mr. de la Madrid's missteps. During the 2009 outbreak of swine flu in Mexico, President Felipe Calderon took to the airwaves and made public appearances to let the population know he was on top of the crisis. Commentators praised him for not following in the footsteps of Mr. de la Madrid.
After his term ended, Mr. de la Madrid became the director of the state-owned publishing company and remained largely out of the public eye. He did resurface in 2009 in a radio interview in which he expressed regret for choosing Mr. Salinas, who is widely reviled because of an economic collapse shortly after he left office and revelations of an unexplained fortune amassed by his brother.
Born in Colima, on Mexico's Pacific coast, on Dec. 12, 1934, Mr. de la Madrid graduated from the National Autonomous University of Mexico and later received a master's degree from Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. He began his career in government with a series of bureaucratic positions in Mexico's central bank, at the state-owned oil company and in the finance ministry. In 1976 he became secretary of budget and planning under President Lopez Portillo.
Mr. de la Madrid is survived by his wife, Paloma Cordero; his sons, Miguel, Enrique, Federico and Gerardo de la Madrid Cordero; a daughter, Margarita de la Madrid Cordero; and several grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Miguel de la Madrid in 1985, in the middle of his term as president. He helped set Mexico on a path to a free-market economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%)

VICENTE FOX QUESADA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%) MEXICO (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



45 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: As TV Viewing Habits Change, Political Ads Follow Would-Be Voters Online

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
MILWAUKEE -- Just because you own a D.V.R. or watch television online does not mean political commercials are not coming soon to a screen near you.
Mitt Romney's campaign thinks it has found a way to get its ads in front of the increasing number of voters who are not watching traditional television: Find these people online, and show them the ads there.
Here in Wisconsin, where the Republican primary is Tuesday, carefully targeted potential voters will see two Romney commercials on their Web browsers. One is a positive message hailing the candidate's economic and business credentials. The other is an attack criticizing Rick Santorum as a Washington insider who compromises his core beliefs.
Both commercials, which have been running on local television stations across the state, have gone unseen by many voters -- up to one-third of them, by some estimates. 
The Romney campaign and a team of online behavior analysts have spent 18 months trying to fight television advertising's law of diminishing returns, sifting through data on the browsing habits of tens of millions of computer users as the campaign builds a richly detailed cache of potential supporters.
In doing so, Mr. Romney's strategists are hoping to turn the Web into a political persuasion tool, signaling a shift in the way modern campaigns view digital advertising. It is no longer merely a supplement for traditional media like television. In some cases, it is a substitute entirely.
A survey conducted last May on voters' television viewing habits, which is often cited by Romney advisers, found that 31 percent of likely voters had not watched television ''live'' -- that is, at the time it was being broadcast, as opposed to online or on a recording device -- in the previous week. And of the 17 percent who said they mostly watched programs recorded on devices like a D.V.R., a large majority skipped through ads most of the time. The nationwide telephone survey was conducted by Public Opinion Strategies, a Republican polling firm, and SEA Polling and Strategic Design, a Democratic polling firm.
''This will likely become the first truly digital election because so many people are not paying attention to live TV,'' said Darrell M. West, director of the Center for Technology Innovation at the Brookings Institution. Saying that many campaigns were beginning to integrate the study of online behavior into their digital strategies, Mr. West said, ''In many respects, it's analogous to the emergence of TV advertising in the 1960s.''
Television will still account for a vast majority of the money spent on political advertising -- billions this year, and 9 out of every 10 advertising dollars, strategists estimate. But with the return on that investment becoming less of a sure bet, campaigns are taking advantage of technologies to track and model browsing behavior as never before.
The Obama digital team, for example, knows when supporters have opened an e-mail from the campaign and whether they have clicked on tabs in the e-mail that direct people to BarackObama.com. It uses that data to determine whether to send more or fewer solicitations.
The campaign has also hired a ''chief scientist'' who worked in the private sector finding ways to discern consumers' interests from data online, and used that data to target messages to entice people to buy certain products.
Republican efforts in this type of digital strategy get less attention but are just as sophisticated.
Rather than buying ads on specific Web sites, the Romney campaign sees greater value in buying audiences -- which remain anonymous, identifiable only by a numeric code -- that are built through careful analysis and predictive behavior modeling.
''We are site agnostic and audience specific,'' said Zac Moffatt, the Romney campaign's digital director. ''It doesn't bother me what site they're on. I'm just looking for an audience.''
Using outside digital strategists, the campaign analyzed surveys from Democratic and Republican pollsters that determined, among other things, how often people were watching live television. Then strategists took that data, paired it with browsing histories and built a model to identify voters who are not likely to be watching live television.
Reaching those people is only one element of the campaign's effort to reach individual voters online. Though the Internet has always been useful in preaching to the converted -- soliciting donations, rounding up volunteers, rallying voters on Election Day -- it has been far less effective at coaxing undecided voters.
So the campaign set out to identify potential voters who are most likely politically conservative and might vote for Mr. Romney but need more persuasion. Here in Wisconsin, these people will see Web ads with the positive message about Mr. Romney's economic leadership, but not the one that mocks Mr. Santorum.
The group the campaign has designated as potentially persuadable was culled from surveying thousands of online users about party affiliation, positions on key political issues and opinions about the president. From those responses, the campaign's outside digital strategy firm, Targeted Victory, was able to narrow down the type of people it wanted: 18 and older, Republican-leaning and strongly dissatisfied with the current administration.
Using the Web histories of the people who fit that profile, Lotame, an audience analytics company the campaign has hired, uses algorithms to find other computer users who might have similar political sentiments based on their browsing. Looking at what these people do online -- what they read, where they leave comments and what content they share with friends -- all helps refine the sample.
When the Romney campaign puts its ads in front of these people, it can tell whether they watched the videos, which requires someone to scroll over the ad and hold the mouse there for three seconds, how long they spent watching and whether they took any actions because of the ad, like sharing their e-mail address, giving money or posting content to Twitter or Facebook. Knowing who is responding to the ads helps the campaign refine its ideal audiences even further.
''When I look at the people who click on that banner ad or looked at that video or went to the donation page, we can unpack a whole new set of behavioral variables,'' said Adam Lehman, Lotame's chief operating officer.
Along the way, the Romney campaign has learned a few common characteristics of its online supporters. They tend to like to take online quizzes on news and entertainment Web sites. They like to share photographs. And they are interested in topics like technology, literature, home repair and child care.
But just as important is knowing where a message is likely to fall on deaf ears. In that case, the campaign has discovered certain traits that tend to be associated with people who do not respond to Mr. Romney's ads. For example, their online behavior shows they are interested in video and casino games, bowling, martial arts and jazz.
These patterns can vary by state. For example, in Michigan, people who visited Christian music Web sites were not fans, something strategists attributed to the likelihood of such people being Rick Santorum supporters.
The results of putting this data to use have been encouraging. Targeted Victory says that people who see audience-specific Romney ads engage with them at a rate three to five times higher than they do with a standard ad.
''As much of the fat that you can clean out, that's an advantage to the campaign,'' said Ryan Meerstein, the senior political analyst at Targeted Victory. ''Our system is getting smarter every day as we learn more about these users.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Two Romney ads running in Wisconsin on TV and online take two tacks: one attacking Rick Santorum, and one more positive. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROMNEY FOR PRESIDENT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK SANTORUM (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (74%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



46 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Joins Effort to Equip and Pay Rebels in Syria

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; Sebnem Arsu contributed reporting from Istanbul, and Anne Barnard and Hwaida Saad from Beirut, Lebanon.

 BODY:
ISTANBUL -- The United States and dozens of other countries moved closer on Sunday to direct intervention in the fighting in Syria, with Arab nations pledging $100 million to pay opposition fighters and the Obama administration agreeing to send communications equipment to help rebels organize and evade Syria's military, according to participants gathered here.
The moves reflected a growing consensus, at least among the officials who met here this weekend under the rubric ''Friends of Syria,'' that mediation efforts by the United Nations peace envoy, Kofi Annan, were failing to halt the violence that is heading into its second year in Syria and that more forceful action was needed.
With Russia and China blocking United Nations measures that could open the way for military action, the countries lined up against the government of President Bashar al-Assad sought to bolster Syria's beleaguered opposition through means that seemed to stretch the definition of humanitarian assistance and blur the line between so-called lethal and nonlethal support. 
There remains no agreement on arming the rebels, as countries like Saudi Arabia and some members of Congress have called for, largely because of the uncertainty regarding who exactly would receive the arms.
Still, the offer to provide salaries and communications equipment to rebel fighters known as the Free Syrian Army -- with the hopes that the money might encourage government soldiers to defect, officials said -- is bringing the loose Friends of Syria coalition to the edge of a proxy war against Mr. Assad's government and its international supporters, principally Iran and Russia.
The assistance to the rebel fighters as Mr. Assad's loyalists press on with a brutal crackdown could worsen a conflict that has already led to at least 9,000 deaths and is increasingly showing signs of descending into a sectarian civil war. Some say that enabling the uprising to succeed is now the best bet to end the instability and carnage sooner.
''We would like to see a stronger Free Syrian Army,'' Burhan Ghalioun, the leader of the Syrian National Council, a loose affiliation of exiled opposition leaders, told hundreds of world leaders and other officials gathered here. ''All of these responsibilities should be borne by the international community.''
Mr. Ghalioun did not directly address the financial assistance from the Arab countries, including Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, but he added, ''This is high noon for action.''
But for some inside Syria, the absence of promises of arms far overshadowed the financial and communications aid. Mohamed Moaz, an activist in the Damascus suburbs who coordinates with rebel fighters, held Mr. Ghalioun responsible for failing to unify the gathered nations on sending arms, calling him ''a partner with the regime in these crimes.''
''I'm the only one who watched this conference in our neighborhood, because there was no electricity and people don't care,'' he said. ''I only watched it because Al Jazeera wanted my comment.''
At the conference, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said that Mr. Assad had defied Mr. Annan's efforts to broker an end to the fighting and begin a political transition. She said that new assaults had begun in Idlib and Aleppo Provinces in the week since Mr. Assad publicly accepted the plan. It does not call for him to step down, but rather for an immediate cease-fire followed by negotiations with the opposition.
''The world must judge Assad by what he does, not by what he says,'' Mrs. Clinton said in a statement to officials who sat around an enormous rectangular table the size of a basketball court. ''And we cannot sit back and wait any longer.''
Molham al-Drobi, a member of the Syrian National Council, said that the opposition had pledges of $176 million in humanitarian assistance and $100 million in salaries over three months for the fighters inside Syria. Some money was already flowing to the fighters, he said, including $500,000 last week through ''a mechanism that I cannot disclose now.''
He expressed dismay on the lack of more material help in halting the onslaught by Syrian security forces. ''Our people are killed in the streets,'' he said on the sidelines of the conference. ''If the international community prefers not to do it themselves, they should at least help us doing it by giving us the green light, by providing us the arms, or anything else that needs to be done.''
Mrs. Clinton announced an additional $12 million in humanitarian assistance for international organizations aiding the Syrians, bringing the American total so far to $25 million, according to the State Department. She also confirmed for the first time that the United States was providing satellite communications equipment to help those inside Syria ''organize, evade attacks by the regime,'' and stay in contact with the outside world. And according to the Syrian National Council, the American assistance will include night-vision goggles.
''We are discussing with our international partners how best to expand this support,'' Mrs. Clinton said.
The countries providing most of the money for salaries -- Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates -- have long been the fiercest opponents of Mr. Assad's rule, reflecting the sectarian split in the Arab world between Sunnis and Shiites. Mr. Assad and his inner circle are Alawites, a Shiite minority offshoot that has nonetheless dominated political and economic life in Syria, despite its majority Sunni population. It also has Christian and other smaller sectarian groups.
Turkey's prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the host of Sunday's meeting, called on the United Nations Security Council to act, saying Syria's government was using its ostensible embrace of Mr. Annan's initiative to buy time. ''If the Security Council hesitates, there will be no option left except to support the legitimate right of the Syrian people to defend themselves,'' he said. Mr. Annan is scheduled to brief the Council's 15 members in New York on Monday.
Mr. Erdogan emphasized that Turkey, once Syria's close ally, had no intention of interfering there, but that the world could not stand idle as the opposition withered in a lopsided confrontation with the government's modern weaponry. ''They are not alone,'' he thundered. ''They will never be alone.''
A final statement from Sunday's meeting called on Mr. Annan to ''determine a timeline'' for the next steps in Syria. What those steps might be remains as uncertain as it has been since Mr. Assad's government began its crackdown on popular dissent early last year.
Violence continued on Sunday, with shelling of the Khalidiyeh neighborhood in Homs and other areas of the city for what activists said was the 21st consecutive day. Clashes were reported in many areas of the Damascus suburbs, and activists reported government troops firing with heavy machine guns on several areas of the southern province of Dara'a. The Local Coordinating Committees, a coalition of activist groups in Syria, claimed overnight that 18 people had been executed by government forces in the province. The group also posted video of a demonstration on Khalid Ibn al-Waleed street in central Damascus.
Syria's restrictions on journalists make it impossible to confirm such reports.
The State Department's stated goals for the meeting in Istanbul reflected the constraints facing the United States and other nations without broader international support for military intervention like that in Libya last year. Proposals to create buffer zones and humanitarian corridors have garnered little support.
The United States and other nations agreed Sunday to set up a ''working group'' within the nations gathered here to monitor countries that continue to arm or otherwise support Mr. Assad's government -- ''to basically name and shame those entities, individuals, countries, who are evading the sanctions,'' as a senior American official put it. They also agreed to support efforts to document acts of violence by Syrian forces that could later be used as evidence in prosecutions if Mr. Assad's government ultimately falls.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke with Nickolay Mladenov, Bulgaria's minister for foreign affairs, on Sunday. (POOL PHOTO BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); ARMIES (90%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); ARMED FORCES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (78%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (77%); BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) SYRIA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); BULGARIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



47 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Mayoral Hopeful's Slow Start Has Some Asking if His Heart Is in It

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
William C. Thompson Jr. has heard all the questions. Is he really running for mayor next year? Can he raise enough money to compete in a crowded primary? Does he have the burning desire that it takes to mount an aggressive campaign?
The answer to all of these, Mr. Thompson says, is yes. But as he ramps up his campaign, his first task is persuading skeptics that he is really in it.
Mr. Thompson, a former comptroller who was the Democratic nominee for mayor in 2009, enters the 2013 race with considerable advantages. He ran strongly in the 2009 election, surprising many political experts by coming within five percentage points of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. As the only African-American candidate, and possibly the only minority candidate, in the probable 2013 field, Mr. Thompson is also in a unique position to benefit from the growing majority of black, Hispanic and Asian-American voters in the city.
Despite these advantages, though, Mr. Thompson is off to a slow start. By mid-January, he had raised just $889,241, less than half what each of his expected major rivals for the Democratic nomination had raised. And his low-key approach to campaigning has left many wondering if he can compete against a handful of extremely ambitious politicians. 
''Does he today have the same passion to run and to lead the city that he had when he was running against Bloomberg?'' asked the Rev. A. R. Bernard, who leads Christian Cultural Center, a church in Brooklyn with 36,000 members. ''I don't know if the fire's there or not.''
Others were more blunt.
''If he wants to show that he's a serious candidate, he has to step up his visibility first,'' Susan Del Percio, a Republican political consultant, said. She added, ''Right now he does not look like a serious candidate -- he looks like someone who wants to keep the door open for a possible run.''
In an interview, Mr. Thompson attributed the questions about his candidacy partly to the fact that he was not currently an officeholder, and therefore was not ''front and center'' in the public eye. He also suggested that it benefited his opponents to stir such doubts.
''There were a number of people who -- their path to victory couldn't have me in the discussion, so it was always easier to say, 'Bill's not running,' '' he said.
But he expressed confidence in his ability to bring together a multiethnic coalition of voters, even saying that he thought he could get to 40 percent in the primary and avoid a runoff.
And while he acknowledged that he had some catching up to do in fund-raising, he said he was not worried about raising enough to hit the spending limit in the primary, which is roughly $6.7 million for candidates participating in the public financing system.
''I'm confident that I'm going to be able to raise the money that's necessary to run a strong campaign and to max out,'' he said.
For the last two years, Mr. Thompson has been working at the municipal finance firm Siebert Brandford Shank & Company and serving as chairman of the Battery Park City Authority.
Mr. Thompson said he had been ''reorganizing'' his life. A member of his finance committee, Betsy Gotbaum, who is a former public advocate, said of his recent absence from politics, ''I think taking the year off was important for him,'' even though she said it had contributed to the uncertainty about his intentions.
Mr. Thompson has been getting out more recently: to events held by business groups and labor unions. He was in Albany for the annual conference of the New York State Black, Puerto Rican, Hispanic and Asian Legislative Caucus, as well as for Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's Black History Month celebration. He was also the only mayoral candidate at Mr. Cuomo's New York City Super Bowl party the week before.
He plans to announce on Monday that he is rehiring two former members of his 2009 campaign staff: Geoff Garin, a pollster; and Doc Sweitzer, a media consultant.
But at times he still does not seem to be in active campaign mode. On a recent Sunday, for example, he attended a fund-raiser for the Downtown Independent Democrats, a club that endorsed him in 2009. By the time Mr. Thompson arrived at the SoHo loft where the event was being held, Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president, who is another possible mayoral candidate, had been there for 45 minutes, assiduously working the crowd.
When it was Mr. Thompson's turn to speak -- following Mr. Stringer, Speaker Sheldon Silver of the State Assembly, Representative Jerrold Nadler and the city comptroller, John C. Liu -- it quickly became clear that he was not going to deliver a rousing stump speech.
''I'm not going to talk about next year,'' he said by way of introduction, after thanking the club for its past support. Instead he talked in general terms about the current year's elections for the State Legislature, Congress and the presidency.
''This is a year of decision -- this is a year that will change the direction of the city, state and country,'' he said.
In an interview, Mr. Thompson said the major themes of his campaign would be education, public safety and the economy. He said the Bloomberg administration had overemphasized test scores in schools, had allowed too many street stops by police, had imposed too many fines and penalties on businesses, and had allowed property assessments and water rates to rise too quickly. He pledged to replace the current police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, and he said he would oppose any tax increases.
''In a lot of ways it's not the big things, it's the smaller things that drive people out,'' he said.
Mr. Thompson and his campaign see his surprisingly strong showing in 2009 as an indication that he will be a formidable candidate next year. But skeptics believe his performance was simply a measure of opposition to Mr. Bloomberg when he ran for a third term.
Mr. Bernard, a longtime supporter of Mr. Bloomberg, called Mr. Thompson's 2009 performance ''more of a protest vote'' and said, ''There's no protest right now.''
And Scott Levenson, a Democratic consultant, said Mr. Thompson's team had taken the wrong lessons from his close race in 2009.
''In many ways they feel like they did everything right in 2009, and if the press and the public had just listened, they would have won,'' Mr. Levenson said. While the election was closer than experts had predicted, he said, the campaign ''could have done a tremendous amount in running the race that would have put them in an even greater position, and there doesn't seem to be much introspection on that.''
Ruben Diaz Jr., the Bronx borough president and a prominent figure in the Latino political community, said Mr. Thompson still had to prove that there was more to his base of support than just the anti-Bloomberg sentiment of 2009.
''He has to now raise the money, get back on the grind, and convince people that he really has a message and a plan to move the city forward,'' Mr. Diaz said. Asked if Mr. Thompson had shown yet that he had such a plan, Mr. Diaz said, ''I think he has a lot of work to do.''
Mr. Thompson is the most obvious beneficiary of the political troubles of Mr. Liu, who had been the only other nonwhite politician to express interest in running for mayor, but whose campaign fund-raising operation is under federal investigation. (Other likely Democratic rivals for the nomination include Mr. Stringer; the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn; and the public advocate, Bill de Blasio.) But the Rev. Al Sharpton, a prominent civil rights activist, expressed frustration that Mr. Thompson was not more vocal on issues of particular concern to minority voters.
''I would be a lot more visible and a lot more on issues like stop-and-frisk and Ramarley Graham being killed and all of that,'' he said, referring to the unarmed Bronx teenager who was fatally shot by the police in February.
Mr. Sharpton said he heard from the other mayoral candidates more often than he did from Mr. Thompson. ''Scott Stringer, I thought he had joined National Action Network, he comes to rallies so much,'' he said.
And while he predicted that Mr. Thompson would be the ''odds-on favorite'' among African-American voters, he suggested that Mr. Thompson was not doing enough yet to excite them.
''You've got to turn people on in order to turn them out,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: William C. Thompson Jr. lost to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in 2009 in a surprisingly close race. (A16)
 William C. Thompson Jr. riding the subway to a Wall Street appointment. He has been working for a municipal finance firm. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); INTERVIEWS (67%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



48 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: A Die-Hard Conservative, but Not on Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
SALT LAKE CITY -- He is a Republican and a Mormon. He opposes abortion. Mark L. Shurtleff, the attorney general of Utah, also rejects President Obama's health care law as an assault on states' rights and he went to Washington last week to urge the Supreme Court to throw it out.
On point after point, Mr. Shurtleff, now in his third term, meets the checklist to qualify as a conservative. But on immigration, he sees things differently from Republicans who have spoken most loudly on the issue in the states and from the party's candidates for the presidential nomination -- including another Mormon, Mitt Romney.
Mr. Romney has echoed lawmakers from Arizona and Alabama, calling for more and tougher enforcement measures to corner illegal immigrants and force them to ''self deport.'' 
Mr. Shurtleff has been conducting a campaign of his own, spreading the word about a more inclusive compromise that Utah adopted last year. A package of laws included an enforcement bill, like one in Arizona, that expanded police authority to identify illegal immigrants, coupled with a measure that recognized a role for some of those immigrants by giving them state permits as guest workers.
Mr. Shurtleff, 54, is probably the most prominent politician among an emerging generation of Republicans trying to stake out an alternative to restrictionist immigration laws modeled on Arizona's.
''It's only the loud, shrill voices we've been hearing,'' Mr. Shurtleff said in his office in the marbled State Capitol on a hill above this city. ''But I believe the majority of Republicans aren't this shrill, anti-immigration, punish-'em-at-all-costs kind of mentality.''
He is well placed to bring his contrarian views to angry Republican voters. A big man -- at 6 feet 5 inches -- with a big presence in Utah, he easily glided twice to re-election. Hard on crime, he is also affable, plain-spoken and surprisingly unguarded about discussing his evolving ideas and personal life.
He used to cruise his Harley-Davidson motorcycle around this city, until a wreck in 2007 almost cost him a leg. He recently turned up at a Utah Jazz basketball game with his five children and a dozen or so other relatives, his baseball cap turned backward. Another evening he hunkered down for dinner in the back room at the Red Iguana, a restaurant known for its authentic Mexican mole sauces, drawing appreciative glances from other diners.
As Mr. Shurtleff sees it, the Arizona law, known as S.B. 1070, was divisive, damaging to businesses and bad for public safety. ''You drive all these folks underground,'' he said, ''and they will no longer cooperate with law enforcement to get the drug runners and the human traffickers and the gangbangers and all the truly criminal aliens who are here.''
He thinks such initiatives are based on misinformation. ''That it is an actual invasion of our country by criminals, that 80 percent of Latinos commit violent crime and all this other nonsense you hear, people believe it,'' Mr. Shurtleff said. ''And it's because there hasn't been a good voice to the contrary telling the truth about it.''
Mr. Shurtleff's truths are nurtured by like-minded groups in Utah. After Arizona's law passed in 2010, an e-mail chain started among an odd coalition that included Mr. Shurtleff and the Salt Lake Chamber of Commerce, local police chiefs, farm bureaus, Latino leaders, Democratic lawmakers and the Roman Catholic Church.
An unexpected imprimatur of legitimacy came from Paul T. Mero, the president of the Sutherland Institute, an influential conservative research group here. Mr. Mero, also a Mormon, says he believes there is a solid conservative argument for bringing illegal immigrants into the system rather than driving them out.
''The federal government failed, left the state holding the bag,'' Mr. Mero said. ''And now the state is responding to protect its citizens, to protect its economy and, frankly, to protect civil rights.''
In November 2010, the conversations produced a five-point statement of principles known as the Utah Compact, which emphasized respect for the rule of law but also the importance of keeping families together, supporting businesses and welcoming ''people of good will.''
The compact received the vital endorsement of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. With that political cover, in 2011 the Legislature passed the enforcement law, which is more cautious than Arizona's -- it authorizes the police to verify the legal status of immigrants if they are suspected of serious crimes. That bill was paired with the guest worker law.
As a young man, Mr. Shurtleff said, he went on his Mormon mission in Peru, where he learned to speak Spanish fluently, traveled the Amazon rain forest and made, he said, quite a few converts.
Last year, pursuing a fascination with Abraham Lincoln, Mr. Shurtleff published a book of historical fiction -- ''Am I Not a Man?'' -- recounting the life of Dred Scott, the slave whose quest for freedom led to a disastrous Supreme Court decision that propelled the country to Civil War and spurred Lincoln to run for president.
Mr. Shurtleff becomes emotional when he speaks of the children of illegal immigrants and the efforts of some Republicans to repeal the 14th Amendment and deny them American citizenship. After the Civil War, the amendment was adopted to overcome the Dred Scott ruling by guaranteeing citizenship to anyone born in the United States.
''I have a chance,'' he said, ''to speak to these kids in Spanish and see how much they love America.'' Republicans, he said, ''need to realize they're not the enemy.''
The Justice Department sued Utah to stop the enforcement law, as it did Arizona, saying that the statute encroached on federal terrain. That law has been held up by a federal court.
So far, Mr. Shurtleff has cajoled federal officials to refrain from suing over the guest worker law. He offered an improbable solution, saying that Utah would give the federal authorities lists of illegal immigrants who had been cleared by the state for guest permits, so they could be exempted as a group from deportation.
Proselytizing for the Utah strategy, Mr. Shurtleff has addressed law enforcement conventions, convened regional strategy sessions and counseled lawmakers from other states.
At a conference of his counterparts last year, he hotly debated Arizona's attorney general, Tom Horne, a fellow Republican. On a radio show, he took on Dan Stein, head of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a leading restrictionist organization, dismissing as ''laughable'' Mr. Stein's critique of Utah's laws.
Mr. Shurtleff has antagonized some Republican leaders in Utah. But he has also won support from Latinos, who have turned away from Republicans elsewhere. Tony Yapias, a longtime Latino leader in Utah, described Mr. Shurtleff as ''the most compassionate Republican I know.''
The Utah Compact inspired similar alliances in Arizona, which advocates there said had helped to power the recall last year of Russell Pearce, a Republican Mormon who was the president of the Arizona Senate and a chief author of bills against illegal immigrants.
Identical compacts were signed last year in Indiana and Iowa. And lawmakers in Florida, Georgia, Kansas and Nebraska considered legislation based on the compact's principles.
Mr. Shurtleff has said he would not run again for attorney general. He had a punishing -- although victorious -- bout with cancer that started in his appendix, and he said he would like a respite from public office. But he is leaving the door open for a future race for a higher position.
He is waiting in frustration to speak with Mr. Romney, whom he supports, to tell the candidate that he is wrong to think he has to satisfy immigration hard-liners to win the nomination.
''What we want to prove here in Utah is that it's not true,'' Mr. Shurtleff said. ''You don't have to pander to that shrill, really negative voice that is harmful to our country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Attorney General Mark L. Shurtleff of Utah, a Republican, took cellphone pictures with his family at a Utah Jazz basketball game last month in Salt Lake City.
Mr. Shurtleff keeps a copy of his historical novel, ''Am I Not a Man?'' -- about the slave Dred Scott -- in his office in the State Capitol. (A9)
 Attorney General Shurtleff, a Republican who opposes abortion and the Obama health law, at the Capitol in Salt Lake City. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN HOOLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BASKETBALL (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); ABORTION (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); FOREIGN LABOR (71%); RESTAURANTS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); GANGS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UTAH JAZZ (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); MITT ROMNEY (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (94%) UTAH, USA (97%); ARIZONA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



49 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Talk Radio Face-Off Approaches

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
''The Mike Huckabee Show,'' the radio show featuring the former Arkansas governor and onetime presidential hopeful that starts next Monday, is not merely another shot at liberal media elites. Conceived by Cumulus Media, the program is a shot at Clear Channel, the radio giant that distributes Rush Limbaugh's show at the same time of day.
And it is not the only one. The radio station owner Cumulus is also creating a local traffic service, selling a morning show by Geraldo Rivera and seeking other hosts for other time slots -- giving talk radio stations new alternatives to Clear Channel and making for a turbulent time in the radio business. 
About six months ago, Cumulus completed a $2.4 billion takeover of Citadel, giving it about 570 radio stations, second in the nation to Clear Channel's 850. Cumulus is in the market for more stations, mimicking the wave of consolidation that Clear Channel led a decade ago.
Until now, said Justin Nielson, a senior analyst for the media research firm SNL Kagan, ''there really hasn't been any direct competitor to Clear Channel,'' in terms of size and scale in local markets.
Executives at Clear Channel say they face competition every day from television, the Internet and other radio companies, like CBS Radio. Nonetheless, they are paying close attention to Cumulus, as are the radio hosts who reach millions of listeners a day and the executives who sell shows. ''There is a war that is about to break out,'' said one such executive, who insisted on anonymity because of business relationships.
If so, Mr. Huckabee is on the front lines. His show, announced in February, was marketed as an alternative to Mr. Limbaugh, who for two decades has been the most powerful talk radio host in the United States. Other news media personalities, like Bill O'Reilly, have tried to go up against Mr. Limbaugh and failed, but Mr. Huckabee has the advantage of his political credentials and Mr. Limbaugh's own weakened position.
Just as Cumulus began selling Mr. Huckabee's shows to stations, Mr. Limbaugh's personal attacks on a Georgetown University law student became national news, leading to a campaign against the show's advertisers. Some of his advertisers have retreated.
Lew Dickey, the chairman and chief executive of Cumulus, alluded to the advertiser concerns about Mr. Limbaugh when he said in an interview last week that stations might prefer Mr. Huckabee's show ''for economic reasons.'' The controversy has made Mr. Huckabee's show an easier sell, he implied.
Clear Channel says the effect of the campaign against advertisers has been minimal; in an interview, the chief executive of its radio division, John Hogan, said, ''We've moved on, and Rush has moved on.''
Mr. Hogan said he welcomed Mr. Huckabee ''because we think competition makes people better.''
About 600 stations carry Mr. Limbaugh's show, the anchor for talk radio, about 125 of which are owned by Clear Channel. Of the more than 180 that will carry Mr. Huckabee's show at the start, 40 are owned by Cumulus. In many markets, the new show will be tape-delayed, potentially making it harder for the show to gain traction. But Mr. Dickey said the number of stations carrying the show had far exceeded the company's expectations.
For now, Cumulus will carry Mr. Limbaugh's show instead of Mr. Huckabee's on dozens of its stations, something it says it is contractually bound to do through 2013. But what then? Mr. Dickey would not say, but many people in radio contend that if Mr. Huckabee's show is successful, Cumulus will schedule it in Mr. Limbaugh's place.
In part that is because the fees stations must pay to carry it have become expensive when cost-cutting is the norm. ''The Mike Huckabee Show'' could give stations leverage.
Mr. Hogan said, ''I think our affiliates absolutely understand and value Rush, but it wouldn't be radio if they weren't complaining about the price.''
Mr. Dickey is aware of the whispers that what they are trying -- a moderate, all-are-welcome approach -- is antithetical to talk radio, which has thrived on the kind of controversy that Mr. Limbaugh provides.
But he asserts that the business needs a broader appeal for stations to survive -- and to attract the brand advertisers that mostly shun talk radio. Referring to the 25- to 54-year-old demographic, he said, ''We haven't seen the 25-54 results with the stable of talent that's out there today. We think we can improve on that with this approach.''
Cumulus, which is publicly traded, and Clear Channel, which is privately held, mostly by Thomas H. Lee Partners and Bain Capital, are highly profitable. But Cumulus and Clear Channel are also saddled with enormous amounts of debt -- $20 billion in Clear Channel's case and $2.8 billion in Cumulus's. For years they have been squeezing costs out at stations by laying off employees and cutting local programming. They are also trying to reorient their over-the-air stations for the Web, even working together at times.
''There's competition and collaboration going on simultaneously,'' Mr. Dickey said. The two companies are working together on a potential competitor to the daily deal site Groupon, called SweetJack, and Clear Channel is carrying Cumulus's and others' stations on iHeartRadio, a competitor to the online music service Pandora.
Mr. Hogan said the recent moves by Cumulus were a reflection of ''what we've thought for a long time, which is that radio is a great business.'' Audio will be just one type of content for these businesses; Web and video will be others, and live events still another.
To that point, the company says it is introducing the shows by Mr. Rivera and Mr. Huckabee -- who, coincidentally, each has a weekend television show on Fox News -- not just in a move to steal market share, but also to develop new hosts. Clear Channel's recent expansion of its relationship with Ryan Seacrest, who has a morning show, signals the same effort
''We're trying to find big-name talent that we think will be good partners for us,'' said Mr. Dickey, who last month signed the CNN medical correspondent, Dr. Sanjay Gupta, to present short features for stations. He added, ''Our goal ultimately is to fill the day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lew Dickey, left, the chairman and chief executive of Cumulus Media. The company is selling a morning radio show by Geraldo Rivera, below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY T. LYNNE PIXLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); LIBERAL MEDIA (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (74%); TAKEOVERS (69%)

COMPANY: CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); CUMULUS MEDIA INC (91%)

TICKER: CMLS (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (92%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: MICHAEL HUCKABEE (89%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (79%); BILL O'REILLY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



50 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Pink Slime Economics

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
The big bad event of last week was, of course, the Supreme Court hearing on health reform. In the course of that hearing it became clear that several of the justices, and possibly a majority, are political creatures pure and simple, willing to embrace any argument, no matter how absurd, that serves the interests of Team Republican.
But we should not allow events in the court to completely overshadow another, almost equally disturbing spectacle. For on Thursday Republicans in the House of Representatives passed what was surely the most fraudulent budget in American history. 
And when I say fraudulent, I mean just that. The trouble with the budget devised by Paul Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, isn't just its almost inconceivably cruel priorities, the way it slashes taxes for corporations and the rich while drastically cutting food and medical aid to the needy. Even aside from all that, the Ryan budget purports to reduce the deficit -- but the alleged deficit reduction depends on the completely unsupported assertion that trillions of dollars in revenue can be found by closing tax loopholes.
And we're talking about a lot of loophole-closing. As Howard Gleckman of the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center points out, to make his numbers work Mr. Ryan would, by 2022, have to close enough loopholes to yield an extra $700 billion in revenue every year. That's a lot of money, even in an economy as big as ours. So which specific loopholes has Mr. Ryan, who issued a 98-page manifesto on behalf of his budget, said he would close?
None. Not one. He has, however, categorically ruled out any move to close the major loophole that benefits the rich, namely the ultra-low tax rates on income from capital. (That's the loophole that lets Mitt Romney pay only 14 percent of his income in taxes, a lower tax rate than that faced by many middle-class families.)
So what are we to make of this proposal? Mr. Gleckman calls it a ''mystery meat budget,'' but he's being unfair to mystery meat. The truth is that the filler modern food manufacturers add to their products may be disgusting -- think pink slime -- but it nonetheless has nutritional value. Mr. Ryan's empty promises don't. You should think of those promises, instead, as a kind of throwback to the 19th century, when unregulated corporations bulked out their bread with plaster of paris and flavored their beer with sulfuric acid.
Come to think of it, that's precisely the policy era Mr. Ryan and his colleagues are trying to bring back.
So the Ryan budget is a fraud; Mr. Ryan talks loudly about the evils of debt and deficits, but his plan would actually make the deficit bigger even as it inflicted huge pain in the name of deficit reduction. But is his budget really the most fraudulent in American history? Yes, it is.
To be sure, we've had irresponsible and/or deceptive budgets in the past. Ronald Reagan's budgets relied on voodoo, on the claim that cutting taxes on the rich would somehow lead to an explosion of economic growth. George W. Bush's budget officials liked to play bait and switch, low-balling the cost of tax cuts by pretending that they were only temporary, then demanding that they be made permanent. But has any major political figure ever premised his entire fiscal platform not just on totally implausible spending projections but on claims that he has a secret plan to raise trillions of dollars in revenue, a plan that he refuses to share with the public?
What's going on here? The answer, presumably, is that this is what happens when extremists gain complete control of a party's discourse: all the rules get thrown out the window. Indeed, the hard right's grip on the G.O.P. is now so strong that the party is sticking with Mr. Ryan even though it's paying a significant political price for his assault on Medicare.
Now, the House Republican budget isn't about to become law as long as President Obama is sitting in the White House. But it has been endorsed by Mr. Romney. And even if Mr. Obama is reelected, the fraudulence of this budget has important implications for future political negotiations.
Bear in mind that the Obama administration spent much of 2011 trying to negotiate a so-called Grand Bargain with Republicans, a bipartisan plan for deficit reduction over the long term. Those negotiations ended up breaking down, and a minor journalistic industry has emerged as reporters try to figure out how the breakdown occurred and who was responsible.
But what we learn from the latest Republican budget is that the whole pursuit of a Grand Bargain was a waste of time and political capital. For a lasting budget deal can only work if both parties can be counted on to be both responsible and honest -- and House Republicans have just demonstrated, as clearly as anyone could wish, that they are neither.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TAX RELIEF (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); FAMILY (73%); HISTORY (70%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (63%); NUTRITION (61%); FOOD MFG (60%); FOOD INDUSTRY (60%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); PAUL RYAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



51 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1662 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Meet Your Start-Up Mate

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: Y Combinator's top 10 start-ups, small-business accounting mistakes, and what's on Mr. Burns's iPad. 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
The Big Story: A Healthy Debate
As annual health care costs for a family of four reportedly top $20,000, the Supreme Court wraps up three days of health insurance debate and seems split over striking down the overhaul. Dr. Aaron E. Carroll says that reform could survive the loss of the individual mandate. Ezra Klein says we can't afford another 18 years of health care drift. Small-business groups argue both sides of the law, and a small-business lobby spends a million dollars assaulting it. Madison Park and Elizabeth Landau reveal lesser known effects of the bill. Take this quiz to find out how much you know about reform. Health tips: too much sitting can kill you but eating lots of chocolate can help you lose weight.
The Economy: To Ease or Not to Ease
The Federal Reserve chief, Ben S. Bernanke, ponders more easing, saying the job market is still weak. The Philadelphia Fed's Charles Plosser says he doesn't see any need for additional stimulus. A shareholder group says the underlying causes of the financial crisis are not being addressed. Caroline Baum says four numbers are adding up to an American debt disaster. Two surveys, of chief executives and business owners, reveal cautious optimism. The Senate approves an extension of federal highway funding.
The Data: Housing Turnaround? 
House prices have sunk back to 2003 levels. Pending home sales eased in February. Barry Ritholtz is stumped by the insistence that a turnaround in housing is upon us: "It simply is not in the data." However, Toll Brothers reports that orders are up significantly. Corporate profits approach a cyclical high. Durable goods and truck tonnage increased in February, but consumer confidence fell. March auto sales are expected to hit a five-year high. Mark Perry says that the cost per mile of driving a car,adjusted for inflation and increased vehicle efficiency, is 28 percent less than in 1980. Rail traffic continues to send cautionary signals. Student loans worth $270 billion are at least 30 days delinquent.
Start-Up: Y Combinator's Top 10
The JOBS Act is approved and with its passage, Steve Case and others look forward to a less-regulated start-up world. Unfortunately, some think the act will benefit financial criminals. This week's celebrity start-up: Jessica Alba raises $27 million. A social video start-up draws big names. John Furrier explains how a start-up powered "The Hunger Games" into a global social phenomenon. A service called FounderDating helps tech entrepreneurs meet their ideal start-up match. Erik Sherman tells start-ups that cool products aren't enough: "A hot mobile app that gets attention does not a company make. A better way: Build what people want and find a way to make it pay." Here are the 10 most successful Y Combinator start-ups. A new report finds that women are starting businesses (pdf) at a rate exceeding the national average. Nick Hughes says there are five essential start-up talents, including adaptability: "Nothing in a start-up ever goes as planned, and thus, start-up founders must be able to adapt to changing circumstances."
People: Job Openings
Amazingly, Ron Burgundy's back. And yes, people really amazing. Jeff Sass asks parents if they're raising entrepreneurs: "You need to be the entrepreneur of yourself. You are the start-up. These are the lessons I am trying to practice myself, and instill upon my kids, all in their 20s. This is their world." Here are the 50 highest-paying careers. A business owner says he has job openings but no one wants them. Tony Bradley says this of employers who are demanding that people surrender their Facebook credentials as a condition of being hired: "The practice is simply ludicrous, so don't be one of those employers." A dog is very excited to see a returning soldier.
Management: Tracking Gordon Ramsay
In this audio, Rich Killian and an accountant discuss the accounting mistakes small-business owners make. Ever wonder how Facebook managed 3,000 twenty-somethings into a $100 billion company? You should never pay full price forthese 25 things. Barry Glassman says that not all business growth is good: "I think that all too often successful business owners eventually lose sight of why they started their business in the first place, trading off those values for the sake of growth itself." Howard Owens says newspaper pay walls create opportunities for local entrepreneurs. An infographic charts Gordon Ramsay's successes and failures. Jason Cohen explains how perfect pricing got him 1,500 sales in two days. Batman is pulled over by the police.
Sales and Marketing: Sometimes, the Customer Is an Idiot
Drew McLellan explains how packaging can help you sell in a new way. Social customer relationship managementis off to a strong 2012. But Neil Davey wonders if C.R.M. is failing our businesses. Kelley Robertson says customers can be idiots. Carolyn Higgins questions whether Facebook "likes" are good for business. Here are five hyperlocal marketing channels to consider. Nichole Kelly shares five tips for moving social media leads into the sales funnel. Matt Heinz explains why most end-of-the-month sales promotions backfire: "Smart reps will sit on those deals until the end when you regularly spike their compensation in an attempt to squeeze as many new sales out of the last week." LinkedIn use by small-business owners is up, and Twitter use is down. Lee Polevoi offers five tips for building customer loyalty.
Around the Country: The Power of 'Zoo Poo'
One map shows the most influential media outlets by state while another reveals how much wind states are generating. Texas manufacturing activity continued to increase while Chicago's economic activity (pdf) remains average. Kansas City's (pdf) growth moderated. New Jerseyans try to figure out what's causing a strange glow in the sky. Subway can't make $5 sandwiches in San Francisco because of the minimum wage. The Arizona Small Business Association has announced an "amAZing Small Business Video Contest." Led by North Dakota (8.1 percent) state personal income rose an average of 5.1 percent in 2011 after rising 3.7 percent in 2010. In Denver, a motorized rickshaw shows off the power of "zoo poo." Laura Leites updates her list of coming awards and contests for small businesses. And whether you're an engineer, an entrepreneur or simply a creative thinker, consider putting your ideas to the test by entering one ofthese competitions.
Around the World: Headaches
Rising Chinese wages are becoming a headache for American companies. An amazing opera/pop duo appears in England while Queen Elizabeth surprises a wedding party. The American economy is pushing small businesses to look abroad. A new study reveals that American and European chief executives are concerned about political and economic risks, while their Asian counterparts focus more on innovation and human capital. A trading company introduces a global platform aimed at small and medium businesses.
Finance: Attack of the Cash Mobs
Bank of America rolls out a small-business 401(k). Wells Fargo is raising rates on some business owners. American Express enables eligible customers and merchants to advertise on Twitter. Brother International announces five winning applicants for its small-business grant program. Wallet-toting activists spend money at the first International Cash Mob day. A mobile Web site creator for small businesses raises $6 million.
Boss of the Week
Gilad Elbaz, the founder of Factual and an investor in 30 other start-ups, may be the most influential inventor in the booming business of data collection and analysis.
Technology: What's on Mr. Burns's iPad
Paul Mah reviews the new Asus Eee Slate B121 tablet. A new design for inverters could lower the cost of solar power. A little company announces a big breakthrough for electric vehicle batteries. Small-business owners are figuring out QR codes. Drew Olanoff explains why he has no interest in owning the new iPad, but Mr. Burns likes it and these guys do some magical things with it. Anne Perez is impressed by Starbucks' use of technology. Eddie Ringle explains why Web apps might beat out native apps for mobile devices. A new type of plastic can repair itself.
The Week's Bests
Motivation Strategies. Mikey Rox lists 25 ways to motivate yourself, including "prepare the night before": "Being prepared is an essential component to motivation because it cuts down on the anxiety you may feel when diving in. If you have small things that can be done in advance of a big workday, do them the night before. When you wake up, those menial tasks will be complete, so you can head straight into the heavy stuff."
Analysis of Body Language. Marie Stempinski says body language is big in business: "Handshakes are especially important for women in the business world. ... Too many women - most of whom are otherwise self-assured and competent - feel uncomfortable firmly squeezing another person's hand. If you have this problem, practice on a friend or family member until a strong handshake comes naturally to you."
Way to Pay Vendors. Hans Steege explains how to make vendors love you: "Pay early. How much interest are you making by paying in 30 days instead of 20? In 90 days instead of 70? Do you really need to hang on to that money for those few extra days, or would your cash flow be fine if you paid a bit early? If you can swing it, pay early. Nobody ever does it. Ever. You will stand out, and your vendors will love you. Establish a history as a prompt payer, and chances are that fabricator will be more likely to rush through that job when you need it."
Today's Question: How quickly do you pay your vendors? How quickly do you like people to pay you?
Marks Group

        
This Week In Small Business: Captain America Returns
        
This Week in Small Business
        
This Week in Small Business: Another Jobs Bill!
        
This Week in Small Business: An Immense Fiscal Cliff
        
This Week in Small Business: Redefining Small

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (95%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); LOBBYING (78%); DIETING (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); HOME PRICES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (70%); APPROVALS (70%); CONSUMER LENDING (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); STUDENT LOANS (65%); DURABLE GOODS (65%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (64%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (60%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (50%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (50%) economy; Small Business; Entrepreneurship; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Small Business

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

PERSON: STEVE CASE (57%); BEN BERNANKE (52%); JESSICA ALBA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



52 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Happiness on a Finite and Human-Shaped Planet

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Bhutan, a tiny Himalayan nation moving from monarchy to democracy, comes to the United Nations to help humanity explore new ways to measure progress. 

 BODY:
I'm at the United Nations today for the Bhutan-led "High Level Meeting on Wellbeing and Happiness: Defining a New Economic Paradigm." The details are nicely summarized in a recent Op-Ed article by Timothy W. Ryback, the deputy secretary general of the Acadmie Diplomatique Internationale in Paris. As Ryback explains, the meeting was approved in a U.N. resolution last year recognizing that "the pursuit of happiness is a fundamental human goal" and "the gross domestic product [G.D.P.] does not adequately reflect the happiness and well-being of people...."
I'll be adding live updates here through the day. You can get a sense of the conversation by reviewing the online discussion over a draft statement the group plans to adopt. The proceedings can be watched live on the Web.
Bhutan is a tiny, poor, once-isolated Himalayan nation well into the process of moving from monarchy to democracy and opening to the world. Recognizing problems attending a growth-driven economic sprint in other developing countries, in the early 1970's King Jigme Singye Wangchuck decided to make his nation's priority not its G.D.P. but its G.N.H., or gross national happiness. The goal ever since has been a mix of economic and social progress shaped to sustain cultural and environmental assets. (There's a fun explanatory video here.) I first wrote on this concept in 2005, when several dozen Bhutanese leaders, scholars and other citizens, attending a conference in Nova Scotia, described efforts to move from happiness as a concept to a set of policies.
Today's meeting (you can track it via the Twitter hashtag #gnh) reflects a global build-up of this notion under other names, as an array of nations and agencies develop systems for measuring well-being that go well beyond what can be measured in dollars. (The Gallup pollsters and the health-care company Healthways have developed a polling project that aims to be a real-time U.S. Well-being Index. I think that a short-term time scale like that -- daily polling of 1,000 people -- kind of misses the point, but it's a useful experiment.)
On a different scale is the newly published World Happiness Report, prepared for this conference by economists John Helliwell of the University of British Columbia, Richard Layard at the London School of Economics and Jeffrey D. Sachs of Columbia University (thefull document as a pdf file). You can read a short excerpt below. 
Other examples include The Better Life Index of the Organization on Economic Cooperation and Development, France's Commission on the Measurement of Economic Performance and Social Progress.
There are heaps of issues here, of course, the first being definitional. Long before the "pursuit of happiness" was enshrined in the Declaration of Independence, and ever since, the term has been debated. What is the good life? As I've written before, you can choose the Vegas definition or that of Plato.
As I wrote after the 2005 meeting in Nova Scotia, John Ralston Saul, a Canadian political philosopher, defined happiness as a balance of individual and community interests. "The Enlightenment theory of happiness was an expression of public good or the public welfare, of the contentment of the people..."
Given what I've learned from Dan Kahan of Yale and the other researchers studying "cultural cognition," the deep, natural divisions among us between what Kahan calls communitarians and individualists (and others call liberals and libertarians) doesn't bode well for the notion that nations, or the community of nations, will have an easy time settling on new measures of progress.
But it certainly doesn't hurt to try, given the extraordinary gulfs on the planet now between haves and have nots, the signs that business as usual will be hard to fit on a finite, increasingly human-shaped planet and the fast-expanding capacity to share and shape ideas in ways that smooth the human journey.
I've written a host of posts that explore relevant themes, including my pieces, "Do the Top Billion Need New Goals?" and "How Much is Enough?" An excerpt from that post is worth pasting here:
This kind of examination isn't just related to personal happiness or, say, environmental damage. John P. Holdren, now President Obama's science adviser, wrote in "Science and Technology for Sustainable Well-Being" that when you measure human harm in years of life lost (e.g., a child cut down by disease loses decades; a grandmother dying of a stroke at 80 loses a few years), the major afflictions of poverty and affluence do us in at roughly equal rates.
Other relevant pieces can be found in the lengthening string of Dot Earth posts under the tag "wellbeing."
Here's an excerpt from the World Happiness Report. Dig in and weigh in:
The realities of poverty, anxiety, environmental degradation, and unhappiness in the midst of great plenty should not be regarded as mere curiosities. They require our urgent attention, and especially so at this juncture in human history. For we have entered a new phase of the world, termed the Anthropocene by the world's Earth system scientists.
The Anthropocene is a newly invented term that combines two Greek roots: "," for human; and "," for new, as in a new geological epoch. The Anthropocene is the new epoch in which humanity, through its technological prowess and population of 7 billion, has become the major driver of changes of the Earth's physical systems, including the climate, the carbon cycle, the water cycle, the nitrogen cycle, and biodiversity. [More on the Anthropocene.]
The Anthropocene will necessarily reshape our societies. If we continue mindlessly along the current economic trajectory, we risk undermining the Earth's life support systems - food supplies, clean water, and stable climate - necessary for human health and even survival in some places. In years or decades, conditions of life may become dire in several fragile regions of the world. We are already experiencing that deterioration of life support systems in the drylands of the Horn of Africa and parts of Central Asia.
On the other hand, if we act wisely, we can protect the Earth while raising quality of life broadly around the world. We can do this by adopting lifestyles and technologies that improve happiness (or life satisfaction) while reducing human damage to the environment. "Sustainable Development" is the term given to the combination of human well-being, social inclusion, and environmental sustainability. We can say that the quest for happiness is intimately linked to the quest for sustainable development.
As a capstone, I encourage you to watch this video report from The Times, which accompanied a 2009 article on Bhutan's happiness project by Seth Mydans: 

        
A Nobelist Joins Those Pursuing Well-Being Over Growth
        
How Much is Enough?
        
An Incomplete Formula? $ = :- )
        
Defining, and Measuring, Happiness
        
Growth on a Finite Planet - So Far, So Good

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RELIGION (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); TRENDS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); HEALTH CARE (50%) Bhutan; consumption; Economics; gnh; Happiness; psychology; un; wellbeing; Ryback, Timothy W; Sachs, Jeffrey D; Economic Conditions and Trends; Gross Domestic Product; International Relations; Politics and Government; Sustainable Living; United States Economy; London School of Economics; United Nations; Himalayas; governance; human nature; human rights; Philosophy; planning; religion; Sustainability

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) London School of Economics; United Nations

PERSON: Ryback, Timothy W; Sachs, Jeffrey D

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (72%) HIMALAYAS (73%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (54%) BHUTAN (94%); FRANCE (90%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Bhutan; Himalayas

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



53 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Mali Rebels Gain Control of Key Areas in North

BYLINE: J. DAVID GOODMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Seizing three regional capitals in northern Mali in recent days, separatist rebels have taken advantage of the political chaos surrounding a military coup last month to extend their hold on territory. 

 BODY:
Separatist rebels said they had seized three regional capitals in northern Mali in recent days, taking advantage of the political chaos surrounding a military coup last month to extend their hold on territory, Agence France-Presse reported. The rebel advance comes as West African leaders said on Monday that they would immediately impose sanctions against the country, the BBC reported.
As the rebels advanced, the coup leaders, who said they had taken power in response to military failures in the north, seemed to switch course on Sunday, saying they would move to reinstate the 1992 Constitution and hold elections. The coup leader, a junior officer named Capt. Amadou Haya Sanogo, did not specify the length of the transition period or when elections would take place, though he did say that leaders from the military coup would not take part, according to video of his news conference.
"The trigger happy NCOs of the Malian Army are now too busy trying to legitimize their coup to even think of fighting the rebels," Baz Lecocq, a Dutch professor of African history, . "And " -- the summer heat -- "is against them. If you think Bamako is hot in April, try Kidal in a shady noon around 50C/130F. The fighters of the M.N.L.A. are used to it," he said, referring to the French acronym for the Tuareg rebel movement, which fights under the banner of the National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad. 
The most recent town abandoned by the Malian Army and taken by the rebels was the ancient city and tourist hub of Timbuktu. A freelance journalist in Mali, Martin Vogl, described the scene there on Sunday, as a power vacuum left a wary calm punctuated by episodes of lawlessness:
Timbuktu calm now. Looting and thefts during the day. Many southerners, military and civil servants, have fled south.
- Martin Vogl (@martinvogl) April 1, 2012
Alain Jupp, the French foreign minister, said on Monday that the situation in Mali, a former colony of France, was "rapidly deteriorating," but that France would not send military forces, as it did during the conflict last year in Ivory Coast, Radio France Internationale reported. 
Revived by heavy arms procured after the fall of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi in Libya, the rebels have broadened their territory across an area roughly contiguous with their hoped-for independent country, an area they call Azawad. A member of the M.N.L.A.'s political wing, Hama Ag Mahmoud, told Reuters that the group did not plan to push farther south. "Our aim today is not to go beyond the borders of Azawad," he said. 
Even so, the gains have been swift. A report on the news site Malijet said that the loss of Timbuktu represented a rare defeat for Mali's government in its nearly five decades of conflict with the northern rebels:
For the first time, from 1963, date of the first armed rebellion, to Jan. 17, 2012, the beginning of the current rebellion, Mali has seen four major armed insurrections. But never before has a single region been entirely occupied. Today, there are three under the total control of the enemy: Timbuktu, Gao and Kidal. In other words, the three regions that the M.N.L.A. has sought in order to create a Republic of Azawad.
In an essay published less than a month before the coup, Mr. Lecocq, along with Nadia Belalimat, a doctoral candidate in Paris, argued that Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, a powerful local franchise of the terrorist network active in northern Mali, had played a significant role in the conflict. 
Most important to this conflict, however, are the economic and ecological crises The North currently faces. The murder and kidnapping of foreigners by AQIM has resulted in the collapse of the tourist industry, and a near total retreat of international NGOs, drying up two important sources of legal income.
The capture of Timbuktu threatened to deepen the decline of tourism to the north. 
There were also reports from residents on Monday in the north that Islamists, who are said to be aiding the rebels, had begun trying to impose harsh new religious measures, including the banning of Western-style clothes, music and alcohol, Reuters reported.

        
Video of Mali Coup Announcement

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COUPS (94%); ARMED FORCES (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); ARMIES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); HISTORY (67%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (63%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (57%) Mali; Sanogo, Amadou Haya; Africa; News; world

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (58%); RADIO-FRANCE-INTERNATIONALE (RFI) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (52%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (52%)

PERSON: Sanogo, Amadou Haya

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MALI (97%); AFRICA (93%); FRANCE (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



54 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Why Jos Antonio Ocampo Wants to Run the World Bank

BYLINE: ANNIE LOWREY


HIGHLIGHT: A conversation with the former Colombian finance minister, one of two challengers to the Obama administration's nominee. 

 BODY:
Last week, I spoke with two candidates for the presidency of the World Bank for an article on the contested election, the first in the history of the Washington-based development institution. (The White House has nominated Dr. Jim Yong Kim, a global health expert and the president of Dartmouth College.) Both candidates gave detailed answers on how they would lead the bank and why they are running for the presidency.
One of the candidates is Jos Antonio Ocampo, currently a professor at Columbia University. He formerly served as Colombia's finance minister and the head of its central bank, as well as the United Nations under secretary general for economic and social affairs. The Dominican Republic formally nominated him for the World Bank position. (On Tuesday, we will have a post on my interview with the other candidate, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Nigeria's finance minister.)
Here, condensed and edited, is what Mr. Ocampo had to say in our conversation.
Q.
A.
The developing countries' directors within the World Bank created an open process in which people could nominate possible candidates. Formally, I was nominated by the G-11, a group of directors representing developing countries.
They analyzed the World Bank's criteria for the position and then tried to find credible candidates - very credible candidates - from the developing world. Someone suggested my name, and after some convincing - it was not easy to say yes to this, because it is a relatively unbalanced competition - I finally said yes, I was willing to do it.
Q.
A.
For two reasons. First, this is the first time the presidency of the World Bank has been subject to a competitive process. Every time before, the U.S. president has effectively named the president of the World Bank. Since this is the first time there's competition, I thought the developing-country candidates who were suitable for the job should be in the race. I felt a responsibility to put a stone in the road toward a democratic process.
Second, based on the merits, I'm capable of doing this job. Among the three candidates, I have the broadest experience, with high-level positions at the regional, national and global level, and I've moved from policy making to non-governmental institutions to academia. If you're going to evaluate candidates by their merits and their capabilities, according to the rules, I think I'm a very competitive candidate.
Q.
A.
It's not necessarily about having a developing-world candidate. The first principle we're trying to uphold is that any citizen of the world - from any member country of the World Bank - should have the right to be elected to the presidency through a competitive and merit-based process.
But of course, if we're talking about competition to lead a development institution, almost by definition those who have done work in developing countries are going to have the most relevant development experience. For me, that's my life. I have 36 years of experience working in developing countries.
Q.
A.
I'm in an ongoing dialogue on this issue, and it's early to discuss it. But, I'd say that there are the classical issues related to development. But there are also issues for middle-income countries that are increasingly the bank's concern, related to global public goods. I think the World Bank can make major contributions to both sets of issues, particularly with the United Nations, which is an institution I know very well.
So, in the first case, there are issues related to low-income countries, which should always be the priority of the World Bank - alleviating poverty, eradicating disease.
But there are also issues for middle-income countries. For example, during the recent global financial crisis, the development institution that was able to come to support emerging and developing countries was the World Bank - that countercyclical role was very important, and a real success story. This is also the institution that has done some of the best research and has the best resources for research, on development and economic growth.
Q.
A.
The world is changing significantly in terms of its economic construction. Developing countries - especially the so-called emerging economies - are driving the whole world's economic activity right now! So there is an interesting discussion ongoing about global governance of economic institutions in light of the restructuring of the global economy - and what's happening with the World Bank is part of that process.
We're in a historic moment in which some of the formerly developing countries will become leaders in the global economy - and that should be taken into account in terms of global governance. We're moving towards a multipolar world - that's part of the story we're living through.
In any case, hopefully as the next president of the World Bank, my intention is to work with all the members. The United States has an important role to play, as the most important shareholder and the father or the mother of this institution since 1944 - you know, the I.M.F. was really a British invention, and the World Bank truly an American invention, as was the United Nations.
I consider that very important. Of course, I'm willing to work with the United States and the European countries - the major donors for development in the world. But it is the World Bank - a partnership for members of the international community.
Q.
A.
A good case might be China. The World Bank just concluded a major study of China's economy, along with the Chinese government. That's a particular case in which a country has made extremely big strides, but it's still a developing country facing the major difficulties that developing countries face. There's poverty. There are regional differences in terms of resources and infrastructure. There are environmental problems that are not fully addressed. They need to develop a new social security system. I can keep naming them. Developing countries typically face these problems.
That's why the partnership with the World Bank can be so successful, why the World Bank can be such an important instrument for China. The mix of knowledge and finance that the World Bank represents is an invaluable tool for those countries. No other institution has the capacity to analyze those problems and help countries solve them, even if they are not low-income countries.

        
World Bank Nominee ... and Rap Star
        
Deadline Nears for World Bank Nominees
        
Furor Over Report Hints at a Chinese Policy Debate
        
Pushing Latin American Banks to Lend
        
Is Overregulation Driving U.S. Companies Offshore?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%) Jose Antonio Ocampo; World Bank; Ocampo, Jose Antonio

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%) World Bank

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%) Ocampo, Jose Antonio

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (93%); NIGERIA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



55 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Professors' Salaries Are Graded on the Global Curve

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: How much is a professor worth? In Canada, enough to be very comfortable. In Mexico, so little that some universities offer a "first marriage bonus" - two bottles of cider and a Christmas turkey. 

 BODY:
How much is a professor worth?
In Canada, enough to be very comfortable. In Mexico, so little that some universities offer a "first marriage bonus" - two bottles of cider and a Christmas turkey.
A new book, "Paying the Professoriate," compares academics' salaries across the world, based on each country's cost of living and average wages. 
As our colleague D.D. Guttenplan explains when it comes to academics' salaries at public universities, Canada comes out on top, faring better than the United States, where new faculty members have less spending power, relatively speaking, than their counterparts in other countries.
As D.D. writes, referring to monthly salaries: "Academics in Canada, where the entry level salaries averaged $5,733, and full professors were paid an average of $9,485, had more cause for celebration than in the United States, where newly hired faculty members averaged $4,950 and full professors $7,358 - a figure that put the United States behind Italy ($9,118), South Africa ($9,330), Saudi Arabia ($8,524), Britain ($8,369), Malaysia ($7,864), Australia ($7,499), and India ($7,433)."
China ($259) is near the bottom, below even Armenia ($405) or Ethiopia ($864), at least in terms of real spending power. In fact, Ethiopia is a happy surprise: Even though actual salaries there are low, they are 23 times the country average, showing how prized professors are there.
Russia, which has been wringing its hands over its poor international rankings, is the only country surveyed where academics are actually paid less than average per capita G.D.P.
''The Russian government wants to know why they can't keep their scientists,'' said Alex Usher of Higher Education Strategy Associates. ''It's not rocket science, but you'd be amazed at how many governments don't get this.''
Go online for a chartshowing a breakdown of professors' spending power, country by country. 
Follow us on Twitter at Joyce Lau @IHTEducate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); CHRISTMAS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (90%); COST OF LIVING (72%); RANKINGS (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (61%) academics; colleges and universities; salaries; Colleges and Universities; Politics and Government; Wages and Salaries; Armenia; Canada; China; Ethiopia; Mexico; Russia; United States; Education; Featured

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (95%); MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); ETHIOPIA (93%); ARMENIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) Armenia; Canada; China; Ethiopia; Mexico; Russia; United States

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



56 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: On Recess, Congressional Leaders Shift Focus to Election

BYLINE: CARL HULSE


HIGHLIGHT: Election year narratives are getting set for Congressional candidates. The next two weeks won't decide control of the House but they represent a new phase in the 2012 races as the campaigning gains intensity. 

 BODY:
 With Congress held in such low regard by voters, House members might be forgiven for wanting to keep out of sight back home during the current two-week break. 
 But Congressional leaders are instead encouraging lawmakers to go high-profile and take advantage of the spring recess to try to win back voters - and tarnish the other guy while they are at it.
 While the election remains seven months away, this is an important moment for those running for re-election as well as those trying to knock out incumbents. It is also the longest break for members before August, when most will be in full re-election frenzy.
 The race for the Republican presidential nomination hits a bit of a lull after Tuesday, putting more attention on the down-ticket races and coming House and Senate primaries. Interest groups and activists are now mapping their contribution plans and looking to see who is a worthwhile investment. 
 For some lawmakers, it is time to make that final decision on whether they are going to even run again or not. And the Supreme Court arguments and House budget vote have put health care back in the public eye, potentially making voters receptive to arguments on that front. 
 Though Republicans believe last week's Supreme Court proceedings bolstered their contention about the overreach of the health care law, they are urging their candidates to talk about gasoline prices - an area where they think Democrats and President Obama are extremely vulnerable.
 "These rising gas prices provide a great opportunity to highlight Washington's failed energy policies that are threatening our fragile economy," Representative Diane Black of Tennessee, a vice chairwoman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, wrote in a memo to Republican House members and candidates as they left Washington last week.
 Ms. Black encouraged candidates to aggressively seek local news coverage on gasoline prices and even visit service stations to pump gas for voters. "Make sure to take pictures at these events so you can promote through social media networking and newsletter e-mails," she said.
 The encouragement to focus on gas prices back home was just part of the press Republicans were putting on fuel costs as a central election-year issue. Speaker John A. Boehner gave the party's weekend radio address, emphasizing House-passed energy bills that have stalled in the Senate. And the House Energy and Commerce Committee has scheduled events in Montana on April 11 and Arkansas on April 13 to highlight party support for the Keystone XL pipeline.
 Democrats think they have a counterpunch for gas prices and one that is just as timely - Medicare, the No. 1 election year topic for House Democrats. Party strategists have been planning for this recess for weeks. They were well aware that it would probably come immediately after House Republicans approved a budget drafted by Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, that would transform Medicare into a program where future retirees get help with premiums instead of the government-paid insurance program that now exists.
 Democrats are seizing on the vote, contrasting the proposed changes in Medicare with Republican resistance to Democratic calls for higher taxes on the most affluent Americans. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee is beginning a new drive-time radio ad campaign on Monday against eight Republicans, including Representative Joe Heck of Nevada. 
"Did you know Congressman Joe Heck voted twice to essentially end Medicare to give tax breaks to millionaires?" says the ad. "Tell Heck to fight for Medicare."
 Similar ads will also run against Republicans in California, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Texas and Wisconsin. Democrats are also making automated phone calls in the districts of potentially vulnerable Democrats.
 Democratic candidates are also being encouraged to hold events to sign a photo-friendly, oversized poster promoting a pledge to keep traditional Medicare intact and challenge their Republican foes to do the same. Democrats plainly intend to keep the focus on Medicare for now.
 "House Democratic candidates will make this election a referendum on the Republican budget that gives millionaires a $394,000 tax cut while costing seniors thousands of dollars more for Medicare and that gives oil companies a tax cut while giving middle class families a college tuition hike," said Representative Steve Israel of New York, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
 Both parties are taking some risks in investing so heavily in one line of attack. Democrats are betting that they can take advantage of the vote on the House budget and severely wound Republicans on Medicare - an issue that was turned against Democrats in 2010 - while answering Republican attacks that Democrats were cutting Medicare through the new health care law. 
 And Republicans are counting on voters holding President Obama and Democrats responsible for the rise in gas prices while crediting Republicans for trying to raise domestic oil production. At the same time, a dip in prices before the election could take some of the steam out of the issue.
 Clearly, the election year narratives are getting set for Congressional candidates. The next two weeks won't decide control of the House but they represent a new phase in the 2012 races as the campaigning gains intensity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); GAS STATIONS (69%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (64%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); MEDICARE (60%) Black, Diane; Boehner, John A; Ryan, Paul D Jr; Elections; Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee; Democratic Party; House of Representatives; National Republican Congressional Committee; Republican Party; On the Hill

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (84%); NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (84%) Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee; Democratic Party; House of Representatives; National Republican Congressional Committee; Republican Party

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%); DIANE BLACK (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Black, Diane; Boehner, John A; Ryan, Paul D Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



57 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Santorum Ad Draws Pointed Obama-Romney Parallels

BYLINE: JEREMY W. PETERS


HIGHLIGHT: A new Santorum ad highlights a theme of his campaign: voting for Romney is like voting for Obama. 

 BODY:
9:37 p.m. | Updated As he battles Mitt Romney, Rick Santorum is leaving little on the table. In his latest attack, a 30-second commercial running in Wisconsin before the Republican primary on Tuesday, Mr. Santorum makes several misleading claims that try to tie Mr. Romney to a number of positions that conservatives would find objectionable.
THE SCRIPT
The ad opens with the obligatory candidate's approval ("I'm Rick Santorum, and I approved this message") before quickly cutting to a stand-up shot of a spokeswoman. "What if I told you this man's big-government-mandating health care included $50 abortions and killed thousands of jobs, would you ever vote for him?" the woman asks, gesturing to a picture of President Obama in the background. "What if I told you he supported radical environmental job-killing cap and trade and the Wall Street bailouts? And what if I told you he dramatically raised taxes and stuck taxpayers with a $1 billion shortfall? One more thing. What if I told you the man I'm talking about isn't him," she says as Mr. Obama's photo dissolves. "It's him," she says as Mr. Romney's face appears.
ON THE SCREEN
Political wisdom says that in a negative ad, a female announcer is more sympathetic. This ad takes that adage a step further; the announcer, a blond actress dressed in a conservative red blouse, is on camera for almost the entire commercial. By putting a soft face in front of such harsh claims, Mr. Santorum gains some distance from the attacks. Images are strategically spliced behind her: the ultrasound of a fetus, electricity-generating windmills, a man lighting a cigar with a flaming greenback.
ACCURACY
Mr. Santorum is not the first to misleadingly tie Massachusetts's public funding of abortions to Mr. Romney. Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor and 2008 Republican presidential candidate, raised the issue in a campaign commercial that ran briefly before the Iowa caucuses. Massachusetts does provide coverage of abortions under Medicaid, but the issue was settled by a 1981 court decision - long before Mr. Romney signed the state's universal health coverage act into law in 2006. The idea that Mr. Romney left Massachusetts's economy weakened - by destroying jobs and leaving the state treasury with a budget shortfall - is also misleading. When Mr. Romney became governor in 2003, the state faced a budget gap of nearly $3 billion and was losing thousands of jobs a month. By the time he left office four years later, the state was adding jobs and had a rainy day fund of about $2 billion. He did not raise sales or income taxes. Mr. Romney took credit for leaving the state in a strong economic position, and that is in some dispute. His successor, Deval Patrick, claimed he inherited a $1.3 billion shortfall. But critics accused him of exaggerating that figure.
BOTTOM LINE
This ad says nothing new about Mr. Romney, but speaks volumes about Mr. Santorum. By taking a scorched-earth approach, Mr. Santorum is showing no signs of bowing to calls for Republican Party reconciliation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ABORTION (88%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (74%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); BAILOUTS (74%); MEDICAID (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); TAX INCREASES (72%); WIND ENERGY (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Advertising and Marketing; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; Reform and Reorganization; Wisconsin; Ad Watch; The Caucus

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (93%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (57%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



58 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Romney Bats Away Mormon Question, Then Engages

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney discusses how his work as an emissary of his church lets him connect with average Americans. 

 BODY:
HOWARD, Wis. - Before the young voter in Mitt Romney's town hall meeting here was even able to get his question out on Monday, Mr. Romney suspected where the conversation was headed.
"I know where this is going," Mr. Romney said as the voter, Bret Hatch 28, stood and - speaking haltingly and reading from a sheet of paper - tried to ask Mr. Romney a highly specific and provocative question about his religion.
"I guess a lot of people say that, you know, your Mormon faith may not be a concern in the election, but I think it might be," said Mr. Hatch, of Green Bay, Wis.
Cherry-picking a verse from the Pearl of Great Price, a standard Mormon work, that refers to the no-longer-held belief by the Mormon church that dark-skinned people are inferior to whites, Mr. Hatch began trying to quote scripture as a Romney staffer tried to take away his microphone.
"Why don't you give me a question?" Mr. Romney said, encouraging the voter to continue. "I'm sorry, we're just not going to have a discussion about religion in my view, but if you have a question, I'll be happy to answer your question."
The question, finally, was this: "I guess my question is, do you believe it's a sin for a white man to marry and procreate with a black?"
"No," Mr. Romney said, cutting off Mr. Hatch. "Next question."
Mr. Hatch, an unemployed man currently looking for work as a truck driver, was not a typical town hall questioner; he is a supporter of Representative Ron Paul of Texas, and came to the event armed with a typed-out script and a fairly high-tech camera to try to record Mr. Romney's response.
Mr. Romney, however, briefly returned to the question later, in response to another voter question about how he would respond to the criticism that he's out of touch with average Americans.
"I've had an unusual experience," Mr. Romney said. "This gentleman wanted to talk about the doctrines of my religion. I'll talk about the practices of my faith."
He then talked about the ordinary Americans he's had the chance to counsel from his perch as a pastor in his church.
"That gave me the occasion to work with people on a very personal basis that were dealing with unemployment, with marital difficulties, with health difficulties of their own and with their kids," Mr. Romney said. "Most Americans, by the way, are carrying a burden of some kind. We don't see it - we see someone on the street, they smile and say hello, but behind them they are carrying kind of a bag of rocks."
Mr. Romney's own challenges, he added, have involved the struggles of his wife, Ann, "beautiful, energetic and articulate," with multiple sclerosis and other illnesses.
"She has M.S., and she also had to fight breast cancer," he said. "And I watched her as a person with great strength and capacity. You don't always see the things that are happening in people's lives, and yet, she wants to help people, and to reach out to those that are facing some difficulty."
Earlier versions of this post misidentified the holy book that Bret Hatch read from as the Book of Mormon, and misidentified the person who brought a typed-out script and high-tech camera to the event as Representative Ron Paul.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MORMONS & MORMONISM (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); RELIGION (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (50%) Paul, Ron; Romney, Mitt; Mormons (Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints); Wisconsin; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (84%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RON PAUL (79%) Paul, Ron; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: GREEN BAY, WI, USA (58%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



59 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Obama Remains Confident That Court Will Uphold Health Care Law

BYLINE: MARK LANDLER


HIGHLIGHT: Weighing in for the first time on the Supreme Court arguments on the constitutionality of his 2010 health care law, President Obama said he was confident that the act would be upheld by the court. 

 BODY:
President Obama declared on Monday that he was confident that the Supreme Court would uphold his health care law, saying it would be an "unprecedented, extraordinary" step to overturn legislation passed by a "strong majority of a democratically elected Congress."
Mr. Obama, in his first public comments since the Supreme Court heard oral arguments last week to strike down the 2010 Affordable Care Act, said the law's constitutionality had been affirmed by legal scholars across the political spectrum, as well as in rulings by conservative appeals court judges.
But the president also put his defense of the law in real-world terms, arguing that the legislation had already brought affordable health care to 2.5 million young people and reduced the cost of prescription drugs for millions of older people. 
"This is not an abstract argument," Mr. Obama said at a news conference in the Rose Garden, after meeting with the leaders of Canada and Mexico. "People's lives are affected by the lack of availability of health care, the unavailability of health care, or their inability to get health care because of pre-existing conditions."
"There is not only an economic element to this and a legal element to this, but there is a human element to this," he said.
Mr. Obama also challenged the Supreme Court justices not to practice the judicial activism that many conservative legal scholars often lament in the court, saying a negative ruling would amount to "an unelected group of people" overturning "a duly constituted and passed law."
Mr. Obama was flanked by President Felipe Caldern of Mexico and Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada. The three leaders took questions on issues like deepening trade ties between the three big North American countries, and American efforts to help Mexico combat drug-related violence.
Mr. Obama said the United States needed to help Mexico both as a good neighbor and out of self-interest because rampant drug-related violence south of the border could affect the security of the whole continent.
During the Supreme Court hearing last week, the aggressive tenor of the questions from the justices suggested that the law's central provision - the individual mandate - was in jeopardy. The justices appeared to be looking for practical solutions if they struck down this part of the law. A ruling is expected in June.
Mr. Obama, however, on Monday argued that the individual mandate was crucial to broadening insurance coverage. "I think the justices should understand that in the absence of an individual mandate, you cannot have a mechanism to insure that people with pre-existing conditions can get health care," he said.
The president had not commented publicly on the legal arguments, which were conducted while he was in South Korea for a nuclear security summit meeting. But the president read a summary of the oral arguments, administration officials said, and has discussed the case with his White House counsel.
The White House has insisted it will prevail in the legal challenge, and has said it is not developing contingency plans if the law is struck down. While a ruling against the law would constitute a major defeat for the president in an election year, it is not clear how it would affect his re-election effort.
A senior administration official said on Monday that while public opinion toward the law was split, only Republicans supported repealing the law altogether. Another senior official noted that Mr. Obama himself initially opposed the individual mandate, before concluding that it would help curb cost increases in health care.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (94%); HEALTH CARE LAW (93%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); APPEALS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); JUDGES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%) The 44th President; The White House

COMPANY: SPECTRUM ASA (71%)

TICKER: SPU (OSL) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541360 GEOPHYSICAL SURVEYING & MAPPING SERVICES (71%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (71%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (71%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); FELIPE CALDERON (59%); STEPHEN HARPER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



60 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Major Indexes Rise On Manufacturing Data

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks rose on Monday on stronger-than-forecast growth in manufacturing, sending the Dow Jones industrial average to its highest level since December 2007.
All 10 groups in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced.
The S.& P. 500 rose 10.57 points, or 0.75 percent, to 1,419.04. On Friday, the index completed its biggest first-quarter rally since 1998. The Dow gained 52.45 points, or 0.40 percent, to 13,264.49 on Monday. The Nasdaq composite index rose 28.13 points, or 0.91 percent, to 3,119.70. 
''We have solid gains that are likely to be sustained, maybe with some slight pullbacks over coming months,'' Eric Teal, chief investment officer at First Citizens Bancshares in Raleigh, N.C., said. ''The manufacturing data continue to show signs of improvement. It supports our modest pro-cyclical position.''
Equities gained as manufacturing in the United States expanded at a faster rate than forecast in March, a sign that industry is weathering slower global growth. The Institute for Supply Management's factory index rose to 53.4 from 52.4 a month earlier. Fifty is the dividing line between growth and contraction. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had projected the gauge would climb to 53.
A separate report showed construction spending decreased 1.1 percent in February, compared with the median economist forecast for growth of 0.6 percent.
''We don't see any big negatives that would cause people to run for the hills,'' said Joseph T. Keating, who helps oversee $1 billion as chief investment officer at CenterState Wealth Management in Birmingham, Ala. ''Easy monetary policies are in place around the globe. Investor sentiment has picked up.''
Commodity shares rose the most among 10 groups in the S.& P. 500 after a gauge of manufacturing in China signaled stronger demand. A Purchasing Managers' Index touched a one-year high of 53.1 last month, China's logistics federation and the National Bureau of Statistics said. Readings above 50 signal growth.
Freeport-McMoRan jumped 2.8 percent to $39.11. Alpha Natural, a coal producer, rallied 1.7 percent to $15.47. Alcoa added 1.5 percent, the most in the Dow, to $10.17, while Chevron increased 1 percent to $108.30.
Investors acquired shares of companies most tied to the economy. The Morgan Stanley cyclical index rallied 0.8 percent. The Dow Jones transportation average, a proxy for economic growth, climbed 1 percent.
Financial shares advanced 0.8 percent as a group in the S.& P. 500. Bank of America added 1.2 percent to $9.68, while Morgan Stanley increased 0.9 percent to $19.81.
Avon, the cosmetics company, surged 17 percent to $22.70 after Coty said it had submitted a nonbinding proposal to acquire the company for $23.25 a share in cash. The purchase price represents a premium of about 27 percent over the three-month average weighted price for Avon shares, Coty said.
Apple advanced 3.2 percent to $618.63 after its new iPad was named the best tablet computer in a Consumer Reports ranking. The magazine said on its Web site that the new iPad's high-resolution screen provided the best detail and color accuracy of all tablets it had seen.
The Hartford Financial Services Group rose 4.1 percent, the third-biggest gain in the S.& P. 500, to $21.95.
Interest rates were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 9/32, to 98 13/32, and the yield fell to 2.18 percent from 2.21 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); TOILETRIES MFG (73%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); COSMETICS (67%); ACQUISITIONS (66%); PUBLIC POLICY (63%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (63%); MONETARY POLICY (50%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (68%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (52%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%); ALCOA INC (51%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); FCX (NYSE) (52%); MS (NYSE) (51%); AAI (ASX) (51%); AA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (52%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (52%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (52%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (52%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (52%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (52%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (52%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (52%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (52%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (52%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (51%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (71%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (70%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



61 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: Where Housing Once Boomed, Recovery Lags

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
CLINTON, Md. -- Half a decade has passed since crowds of lunchtime workers regularly packed the Fish Market restaurant, a popular fixture of this southern Maryland crossroads known by the lighthouse on its roof.
Sales representatives for drug companies no longer buy hundreds of dollars in food for workers in the medical offices across the street. The private dining room, once a popular spot for business meetings and family parties, was closed in the fall.
The official statistics say that the national economy has been growing for almost three years, and that Maryland is growing faster than most states. But in Prince George's County, where housing prices have fallen more than anywhere else in the state, there is scant evidence of renewed prosperity.
Auto sales are slowly improving nationwide, but car dealers here say the arrival of spring and tax refunds are failing once again to bring buyers to their lots. Contractors who built homes say they are glad for work fixing roofs. 
''I don't think you'll find anyone in here who will tell you that it's over,'' said the Fish Market's owner, Rick Giovannoni, gesturing at the half-empty tables.
He paused, then added: ''Well, we are selling more drinks.''
A growing body of research suggests that the recent recession may have brought an enduring shift in the geography of American growth. Places like Gwinnett County near Atlanta, Lake County, north of Orlando, and San Joaquin County in California's central valley, where housing booms were fueled by borrowed money, may now become long-term laggards under the weight of those debts.
Various kinds of economic activity, including auto sales, fell more sharply and are rebounding more slowly in areas that had the highest debt burdens at the peak of the boom in 2006, according to a series of recent studies.
Jobs that depend on local spending, in restaurants and retail stores, were eliminated in larger numbers in high-debt areas. And the latest available data suggests that those jobs are returning more slowly, too.
''Typically where the recession hits hardest the comeback is more vibrant,'' said Amir Sufi, a finance professor at the University of Chicago who is an author of several of the studies. ''We're not seeing that this time around.''
This debt hangover has its strongest grip along the western and eastern coasts, where the scarcity of land helped to drive housing prices and debt burdens to extreme levels. Prince George's, which fits like half a doughnut around the eastern side of Washington, was particularly vulnerable because it is the least affluent of the Beltway counties. People here, as in other less affluent suburbs, tended to have few investments beyond the equity in their home.
Housing prices in Prince George's more than doubled from 2001 to 2006, reaching an average of $341,456. The average household, in turn, accumulated debts exceeding 2.5 times its annual income. The crash, when it came, wiped away much wealth and some income -- but none of those debts.
Greg Howell, who runs an auto finance company that works with Washington-area dealerships, said sales remained particularly depressed in Prince George's and across the Potomac River in Prince William County in Virginia, an area with a similar boom in housing prices.
Sitting in a back office at Driveline Auto, a Prince George's dealership in which he owns a minority stake, Mr. Howell said that business had ''hopped'' in the years before the crash. Since then, he said, a lot of dealerships had closed.
People who need cars are buying, he said. People who want cars are not.
''When a customer points at a shiny BMW, there's more margin there,'' he said. ''Until the want comes back, these businesses will struggle.''
''It hasn't been fun in five years,'' he said. ''And it's going to be awhile.''
It may sound obvious that people with debt problems will spend less. But it is less obvious that this would weigh on growth. According to standard economic theory, if some people borrow too much and reduce their spending, prices and interest rates should fall, inducing other people to increase spending.
The slow pace of the current recovery has led some economists to revisit that assumption. Interest rates cannot fall below zero, and they argue that the hole is so large that zero is not low enough to attract all the new spending needed to fill it.
Professor Sufi and his colleagues were among the first to present evidence for this theory. They used credit card data to show that spending in high-debt counties fell more sharply during the recession: on durable goods like dishwashers, nondurable goods like clothing and even on groceries. The sharpest drops happened in areas where people reported little wealth beyond their homes.
In a second study, Professor Sufi and Atif Mian, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, divided jobs into two categories: Those that depend on local spending, like waiters in restaurants, and those, like factory workers, that can be sustained by spending in other places. They found that employment in local jobs fell much more sharply in high-debt counties from 2007 to 2009.
The New York Times analyzed employment data for 2010, released since the study was completed, and found that the disparity had continued in the early stages of the recovery. Employment in local jobs did not increase in high-debt counties in 2010 even as it began to grow modestly in low-debt counties.
Everett Allen, who owns a remodeling business in Prince George's, used to have enough work for six employees. In recent years he has employed three.
''If somebody used to call in October, I wouldn't do the job,'' he said. ''I wanted to be off over the holidays and I gave my guys time off. Now if somebody called in October, I probably would be doing it. But we don't get those calls now.''
The average price of a home fell 47 percent in Prince George's from 2006 to 2011, according to the Maryland Association of Realtors. Some economists see this ''wealth effect'' as sufficient to explain the decline in consumption.
But a recent national study by Karen Dynan, an economist at the Brookings Institution, found that households with higher levels of debt cut spending by a larger amount even after accounting for the effects of wealth.
Household debt is now in decline. The Federal Reserve calculates that average household debt payments as a share of disposable income fell below 16 percent in 2011, from a peak of 18.85 percent in 2007. But it is not clear where the process of paying down debt, or deleveraging, will stop, or how long that might take. Economists do not even agree whether people are reducing debts voluntarily, or whether banks are forcing a change in lifestyle by refusing loans and reducing borrowing limits.
And the consequences remain in dispute. John C. Williams, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, argued at a conference in February that the areas hit hardest by the recession are recovering at the same speed, they simply have a longer road to travel.
''The link between house prices and regional economic activity is much clearer in the downturn than in the recovery,'' Mr. Williams said.
But the ideas advocated by Professor Sufi and his academic allies are rapidly entering the mainstream. The White House highlighted their research in the annual Economic Report of the President, published in February.
And the theory rings true to Mr. Allen, the longtime Prince George's contractor.
''People are scared to spend money right now,'' he said.
Spring came early this year, and spring is when customers usually start calling, but Mr. Allen said this has been as quiet a spring as he can remember.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Job applicants waiting to speak to recruiters in Georgia. Studies suggest the recession brought a shift in the geography of growth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A1)
 Rick Giovannoni, owner of the Fish Market in Clinton, Md., chats with lunch customers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); SALES FORCE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); STATISTICS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); RETAILERS (72%); NEW CAR DEALERS (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (67%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



62 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: One Star Torn Between Two Tours

BYLINE: By ADAM SCHUPAK

 BODY:
ORLANDO, Fla. -- In front of a hotel mirror with his father by his side, 17-year-old Ryo Ishikawa rehearsed the lines that would open his first news conference on the PGA Tour: ''Hello, America. I am Ryo Ishikawa from Japan.''
That day, before making his PGA Tour debut at the 2009 Northern Trust Open in Los Angeles, Ishikawa charmed the news media, proclaiming his dream to play on the PGA Tour and to win the Masters, and his fondness for hamburgers.
A little more than three years later, on March 11, the first anniversary of the earthquake and tsunami that devastated Japan, he secured his best finish in 32 starts on the tour, finishing second at the Puerto Rico Open. 
''It felt like dreaming sometimes,'' Ishikawa, now 20, said afterward. ''And if I get the next chance, I will grab it for sure.''
He received a consolation prize: His runner-up finish earned him enough money to be awarded special temporary membership to the PGA Tour. Ishikawa can accept unlimited sponsor invitations and make unlimited starts, leaving him contemplating a should-I-stay-or-should-I-go situation. And Japan's golf tour hangs in the balance.
Ishikawa is torn between his desire to chase his dream of playing in the United States and a great sense of obligation to represent his homeland on the Japan Golf Tour. As a measure of his devotion, Ishikawa pledged his prize money to relief efforts in Japan after the earthquake and tsunami last year. But his departure from his home tour, amid a difficult economic climate, could cripple its viability.
''Well, long term, yes, it's my dream to be playing the majority of events over here,'' Ishikawa said recently before the Arnold Palmer Bay Hill Invitational.
But he added that in the near future he was committed to playing in Japan.
''The Japanese tour helped me to reach where I am,'' he said.
But Ishikawa may simply be delaying the inevitable. He can secure full status on the PGA Tour for 2013 by earning enough to finish among the top 125 money winners this season. He cashed a small check for tying for 53rd at Bay Hill. He took last week off to prepare for the Masters, where he received a special exemption. With a strong performance at Augusta, the three other majors or the remaining World Golf Championship event in August, Ishikawa should surpass the $668,166 in winnings of D. J. Trahan, who finished 125th last season.
As a tour member, Ishikawa would be required to play a minimum of 15 tour-sanctioned events, which could cut severely into his appearances in Japan.
At home, there is no substitute for Ishikawa, who burst onto the scene winning his debut as a 15-year-old amateur. The Japanese news media nicknamed him ''the bashful prince'' and a star was born.
''He's probably the biggest draw ever,'' said Ryuji Imada, who was born in Japan and moved to the United States at age 14 to pursue a career as a touring pro.
The American touring pro Brandt Jobe, who won six times in Japan between 1995 and 1998, recalled the first time he played with Ishikawa at the 2008 Dunlop Phoenix.
''I got to the first tee and the fans were lined seven-deep all the way down the hole,'' Jobe said. ''There were probably 25 TV cameras and a whole crew and I said, 'What in the world is going on?' Henrik Stenson was our third. He said: 'It's the kid. This is the next Tiger Woods over here.' ''
The Japanese tour consists of 21 domestic events between mid-April and November, a far cry from its high watermark of 44 tournaments in 1990. Ishikawa has won eight more times in Japan since turning pro in 2007, including shooting a final-round 58 to come from behind and win the Munsingwear Open KSB Cup in May that year. It was the lowest score ever shot on a major professional circuit.
With his combination of boyish good looks and winning form, Ishikawa revived interest in men's professional golf in Japan, which before his arrival lagged behind the Japan L.P.G.A. in television ratings.
''He made golf cool for a younger generation,'' Jobe said.
Chiharu Kubota, senior editor of Golf Digest Japan, said a large faction of Ishikawa's fan club, who pay annual dues of 5,000 yen or approximately $60, are women old enough to be his mother.
''They would all like to have their daughters or granddaughters marry him,'' Kubota said.
The rest of his golf fans will settle for nothing less than a major title. Only three Japanese golfers -- Imada, Isao Aoki and Shigeki Maruyama -- have won on the PGA Tour. Those who have come before Ishikawa have shared the burden of homesickness. What separates Ishikawa is his recognition that the measure of greatness must come on a larger stage.
''My goal is to be the No. 1 player in the world so that's why I target the U.S. tour,'' said Ishikawa, who has been a member of the international team for the last two Presidents Cups.
Ishikawa's departure would have a rippling effect across the various businesses he touches, from tournaments to networks to the many products he endorses. His manager, Atsushi Itaya, said Ishikawa had 20 sponsorship deals, including Yonex, Panasonic and Toyota. For the Japan Golf Tour, ratings and attendance will dip without Ishikawa's rare blend of talent and charisma. Andy Yamanaka, senior director of the Japan Golf Tour, dreads the day Ishikawa leaves, but he understood that something deeper was at stake.
''It is important that someone like Ryo perform well on a global scale,'' Yamanaka said. ''We have to explain that to our sponsors, fans and media. We believe he will continue to support the Japanese tour, and if he wins some tournaments, that will be great for Japanese golf.''
As with the baseball stars like Hideo Nomo, Ichiro Suzuki and Yu Darvish, Japanese fans have cheered athletes when they have left for the United States and the news media swarms have followed the athletes here. With the same smoothness as his golf swing, Ishikawa handles the adulation and attention with aplomb. He seems immune to the large group of reporters that circle him. But he said he had not dined out in Japan in more than two years. He cannot go out in public to the mall or on a date.
Ishikawa caused a stir with the Japanese news media when he showed up to Bay Hill accompanied by his girlfriend, Yuri. At the request of Ishikawa's father, Katsumi, no pictures were snapped of the couple and no Japanese reporter dared approach her. They were able to enjoy lunch in public on Monday at the clubhouse.
''We walked around the hotel and had coffee, and I can do that in this country,'' he said. ''It is nice.''
Ishikawa even shopped at Orlando's Premium Outlets. When asked what he bought, he said: ''Nothing. All for her.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: With an exemption to the Masters, Ryo Ishikawa has a chance to earn PGA Tour status for 2013. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN RAOUX/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (74%); TSUNAMIS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



63 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: Only Connect

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Forging Social Connections for Longer Life'' (Personal Health, March 27): Jane E. Brody's struggle with loneliness after her husband's death shows us how important social connections are for healthy aging. She mentions that family, friends, church and volunteer groups all provide health-promoting social connections. One important outlet she does not mention is paid work. In this economy, as many older Americans struggle to reconcile their need to work, even part time, with their long-held dreams of retirement, it is important to realize that work provides much more than just a paycheck. Work provides many social contacts and enables a sense ofcontribution, and belonging, to society. And workplaces provide rich andauthentic intergenerational connections that are rare in other settings. 
Caitrin Lynch
Needham, Mass.
The writer is the author of ''Retirement on the Line.''
To the Editor:
The rugged individualism that remains in the American DNA drives the social isolation that is so often lethal to the middle-aged and elderly, thanks to the autonomy we take such pride in earlier in life. Unlike most social species, whose needs are met with the help of the group, we transfer our dependence to automobiles, the news media, medical care and processed food, thus camouflaging our needs with the fig leaf of phony self-reliance. We should take our cue from the writings of Hillary Clinton. Whether raising a child or sustaining an adult, it does indeed take a village.
Christopher Bailey, M.D.
Seattle

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); ELDER HEALTH (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); AGING (77%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (72%); PARENTING (72%); VOLUNTEERS (71%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



64 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Regulator Orders Hospitals To Undo a Merger in Ohio

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Trade Commission has blocked an Ohio hospital merger in a closely watched case that could slow the consolidation of health care providers around the country.
In the Ohio case, the commission ruled that the merger of the ProMedica Health System and St. Luke's Hospital would ''substantially lessen competition'' in the Toledo area, allowing the hospitals to charge higher prices.
The merger, justified by the hospitals as a way to prepare for ''health care reform,'' will probably result in ''higher health care costs for patients, employers and employees,'' the commission said. 
ProMedica had argued that the merger would advance the type of collaboration promoted by President Obama under the new health care law. The commission rejected this argument. The ruling serves notice that such cooperation runs the risk of being seen by regulators as anticompetitive behavior in violation of antitrust law.
The 2010 health care law has prompted a frenzy of activity as hospitals buy up doctor practices or form joint ventures to coordinate care, with the prospect of earning government bonuses for controlling costs.
By a 4-to-0 vote, the commission last week found the Ohio merger illegal and ordered ProMedica to sell St. Luke's within 180 days.
Jeffrey C. Kuhn, the general counsel of ProMedica, said Monday that the company intended to appeal the ruling to the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in Cincinnati. In an interview, Mr. Kuhn said the merger would have ''no substantial impact on competition,'' and he added that another health care system, Catholic Health Partners, was still ''a formidable competitor.''
Thomas L. Greaney, an expert on health and antitrust law at St. Louis University, said, ''This decision sends a signal, a warning, to hospitals: You will be scrutinized extremely closely if you undertake a merger with a close competitor.''
Melinda R. Hatton, senior vice president and general counsel of the American Hospital Association, said, ''The F.T.C. decision, if upheld on appeal, could slow the pace of mergers and joint ventures needed to achieve the ambitious goals being set for health care providers by the government, employers and insurers.''
The commission cited internal company documents and testimony from dozens of witnesses to support its conclusion that the merger ''will significantly increase ProMedica's bargaining leverage,'' allowing it to negotiate higher payment rates from Aetna, Humana and other insurers.
Before the merger in 2010, the commission said, ''ProMedica had by far the highest prices for general acute-care inpatient services in Lucas County,'' which includes Toledo, and its rates were among the highest in Ohio. By contrast, the agency said, rates at St. Luke's were the lowest in the county.
The commission analyzed the market for general inpatient hospital services in Lucas County. The merger would reduce the number of competitors to three from four, it said, and the combined entity would control 58 percent of the market.
Concentration in the market for inpatient obstetrical services would be even greater because the merger would reduce the number of competitors to two from three, and the combined entity would control 80.5 percent of the market, the commission said.
In its decision, the agency cited testimony by Prof. Robert J. Town, a health economist at the University of Pennsylvania, who estimated that prices would increase by 38 percent at St. Luke's Hospital and by 11 percent at other ProMedica hospitals in Lucas County.
''St. Luke's clearly anticipated that its rates would increase,'' the commission said, and ''ProMedica's superior negotiating clout with managed care organizations was among the primary reasons St. Luke's joined the ProMedica system.''
Explaining the decision, Jon Leibowitz, the chairman of the commission, said: ''Hospitals are a big driver of health costs. No matter what happens in the Supreme Court on the Affordable Care Act -- and I hope it is upheld -- competition will play a vital role in ensuring that health costs don't continue to rise as fast as they have in the past.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Federal Trade Commission says ProMedica Health System must sell St. Luke's Hospital in Maumee, Ohio, above, because the merger of the two would ''substantially lessen competition.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); HOSPITALS (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (89%); APPEALS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ACUTE CARE (78%); WITNESSES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (74%); INSURANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); TESTIMONY (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); APPEALS COURTS (65%)

COMPANY: PROMEDICA HEALTH SYSTEM INC (58%); CATHOLIC HEALTH PARTNERS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (58%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (88%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



65 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: New Estimate Raises Civil War Death Toll

BYLINE: By GUY GUGLIOTTA. 
Guy Gugliotta is the author of the new book ''Freedom's Cap: The United States Capitol and the Coming of the Civil War.''

 BODY:
For 110 years, the numbers stood as gospel: 618,222 men died in the Civil War, 360,222 from the North and 258,000 from the South -- by far the greatest toll of any war in American history.
But new research shows that the numbers were far too low.
By combing through newly digitized census data from the 19th century, J. David Hacker, a demographic historian from Binghamton University in New York, has recalculated the death toll and increased it by more than 20 percent -- to 750,000.
The new figure is already winning acceptance from scholars. Civil War History, the journal that published Dr. Hacker's paper, called it ''among the most consequential pieces ever to appear'' in its pages. And a pre-eminent authority on the era, Eric Foner, a historian at Columbia University, said: 
''It even further elevates the significance of the Civil War and makes a dramatic statement about how the war is a central moment in American history. It helps you understand, particularly in the South with a much smaller population, what a devastating experience this was.''
The old figure dates back well over a century, the work of two Union Army veterans who were passionate amateur historians: William F. Fox and Thomas Leonard Livermore.
Fox, who had fought at Antietam, Chancellorsville and Gettysburg, knew well the horrors of the Civil War. He did his research the hard way, reading every muster list, battlefield report and pension record he could find.
In his 1889 treatise ''Regimental Losses in the American Civil War, 1861-1865,'' Fox presented an immense mass of information. Besides the aggregate death count, researchers could learn that the Fifth New Hampshire lost more soldiers (295 killed) than any other Union regiment; that Gettysburg and Waterloo were almost equivalent battles, with each of the four combatant armies suffering about 23,000 casualties; that the Union Army had 166 regiments of black troops; and that the average Union soldier was 5 feet 8 1/4 inches tall and weighed 143 1/2 pounds.
Fox's estimate of Confederate battlefield deaths was much rougher, however: a ''round number'' of 94,000, a figure compiled from after-action reports. In 1900, Livermore set out to make a more complete count. In his book, ''Numbers and Losses in the Civil War in America, 1861-65,'' he reasoned that if the Confederates had lost proportionally the same number of soldiers to disease as the Union had, the actual number of Confederate dead should rise to 258,000.
And that was that. The Fox-Livermore numbers continued to be cited well into the 21st century, even though few historians were satisfied with them. Among many others, James M. McPherson used them without citing the source in ''Battle Cry of Freedom,'' his Pulitzer-winning 1988 history of the war.
Enter Dr. Hacker, a specialist in 19th-century demographics, who was accustomed to using a system called the two-census method to calculate mortality. That method compares the number of 20-to-30-year-olds in one census with the number of 30-to-40-year-olds in the next census, 10 years later. The difference in the two figures is the number of people who died in that age group.
Pretty simple -- but, Dr. Hacker soon realized, too simple for counting Civil War dead. Published census data from the era did not differentiate between native-born Americans and immigrants; about 500,000 foreign-born soldiers served in the Union Army alone.
''If you have a lot of immigrants age 20 moving in during one decade, it looks like negative mortality 10 years later,'' Dr. Hacker said. While the Census Bureau in 1860 asked people their birthplace, the information never made it into the printed report.
As for Livermore's assumption that deaths from disease could be correlated with battlefield deaths, Dr. Hacker found that wanting too. The Union had better medical care, food and shelter, especially in the war's final years, suggesting that Southern losses to disease were probably much higher. Also, research has shown that soldiers from rural areas were more susceptible to disease and died at a higher rate than city dwellers. The Confederate Army had a higher percentage of farm boys.
Dr. Hacker said he realized in 2010 that a rigorous recalculation could finally be made if he used newly available detailed census data presented on the Internet by the Minnesota Population Center at the University of Minnesota.
The center's Integrated Public Use Microdata Series had put representative samples of in-depth, sortable information for individuals counted in 19th-century censuses. This meant that by sorting by place of birth, Dr. Hacker could count only the native-born.
Another hurdle was what Dr. Hacker called the ''dreadful'' 1870 census, a badly handled undercount taken when the ashes of the war were still warm. But he reasoned a way around that problem.
Because the census takers would quite likely have missed as many women as men, he decided to look at the ratio of male to female deaths in 1870. Next, he examined mortality figures from the decades on either side of the war -- the 1850s and 1870s -- so that he could get an idea of the ''normal'' ratio of male to female deaths for a given decade. When he compared those ratios to that of 1860-70, he reasoned, he would see a dramatic spike in male mortality. And he did. Subtracting normal attrition from the male side of the equation left him with a rough estimate of war dead.
It was a better estimate than Fox and Livermore had produced, but Dr. Hacker made it clear that his was not the final answer. He had made several assumptions, each of which stole accuracy from the final result. Among them: that there were no war-related deaths of white women; that the expected normal mortality rate in the 1860s would be the average of the rates in the 1850s and 1870s; that foreign soldiers died at the same rate as native-born soldiers; and that the War Department figure of 36,000 black war dead had to be accepted as accurate because black women suffered so terribly both during and after the war that they could not be used as a control for male mortality.
The study had two significant shortcomings. Dr. Hacker could make no estimate of civilian deaths, an enduring question among historians, ''because the overall number is too small relative to the overall number of soldiers killed.'' And he could not tell how many of the battlefield dead belonged to each side.
''You could assume that everyone born in the Deep South fought for the Confederacy and everyone born in the North fought for the Union,'' he said. ''But the border states were a nightmare, and my confidence in the results broke down quickly.''
With all the uncertainties, Dr. Hacker said, the data suggested that 650,000 to 850,000 men died as a result of the war; he chose the midpoint as his estimate.
He emphasized that his methodology was far from perfect. ''Part of me thinks it is just a curiosity,'' he said of the new estimate.
''But wars have profound economic, demographic and social costs,'' he went on. ''We're seeing at least 37,000 more widows here, and 90,000 more orphans. That's a profound social impact, and it's our duty to get it right.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GETTYSBURG: Census details not published at the time suggest that 750,000 men died in the war, more than 20 percent above previous estimates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRARY OF CONGRESS/GETTY IMAGES) CHARTS: Terrible Swift Sword: Using detailed census data from 1850 to 1880, a demographic historian calculated the chances that native-born white men and women would survive from one census to the next. As expected, survival rates dropped for white men during the Civil War, which lasted from 1861 to 1865. By comparing normal and wartime death ratios between the two sexes, he was able to estimate that 716,000 white men were killed during the war. His statistical method works only for whites, so he used a War Department estimate of 36,000 black war dead. He concluded that 752,000 men died during the Civil War, more than a previous estimate of 618,222. (Source: Civil War History
 J. David Hacker, Binghamton University)(D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (93%); CIVIL WAR (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); ARMED FORCES (87%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); VETERANS (73%); CENSUS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



66 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: Buying Homes by the Thousands

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
RIVERSIDE, Calif. -- At least 20 times a day, Alan Hladik walks into a fixer-upper and tries to figure out if it is worth buying.
As an inspector for the Waypoint Real Estate Group, Mr. Hladik takes about 20 minutes to walk through each home, noting worn kitchen cabinets or missing roof tiles. The blistering pace is necessary to keep up with Waypoint's appetite: the company, which has bought about 1,200 homes since 2008 -- and is now buying five to seven a day -- is an early entrant in a business that some deep-pocketed investors are betting is poised to explode.
With home prices down more than a third from their peak and the market swamped with foreclosures, large investors are salivating at the opportunity to buy perhaps thousands of homes at deep discounts and fill them with tenants. Nobody has ever tried this on such a large scale, and critics worry these new investors could face big challenges managing large portfolios of dispersed rental houses. Typically, landlords tend to be individuals or small firms that own just a handful of homes.
But the new investors believe the rental income can deliver returns well above those offered by Treasury securities or stock dividends. At the same time, economists say, they could help areas hardest hit by the housing crash reach a bottom of the market. 
This year, Waypoint signed a $400 million deal with GI Partners, a private equity firm in Silicon Valley. Gary Beasley, Waypoint's managing director, says the company plans to buy 10,000 to 15,000 more homes by the end of next year. Other large private equity investors -- including Colony Capital, GTIS Partners and Oaktree Capital Management, in partnership with the Carrington Holding Company -- have committed millions to this new market, and Lewis Ranieri, often called the inventor of the mortgage bond, is considering it, too.
In February, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees the government-backed mortgage companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, announced that it would sell about 2,500 homes in a pilot program in eight metropolitan areas, including Atlanta, Chicago and Los Angeles.
And Bank of America said in late March that it would begin testing a plan to allow homeowners facing foreclosure the chance to rent back their homes and wipe out their mortgage debt. Eventually, the bank said, it could sell the houses to investors.
Waypoint executives say they can handle large volumes because they have developed computer systems that help them make quick buying decisions and manage renovations and rentals.
''We realized that there is a tremendous amount of brain damage around acquiring single-family homes, renovating them and renting them out,'' said Colin Wiel, a Waypoint co-founder. ''We think this is a huge opportunity and we are going to treat it like a factory and create a production line to do this.''
Mr. Hladik, who is one of seven inspectors working full time for Waypoint's Southern California office, is one cog in that production line.
On a recent morning, he walked through a vacant three-bedroom home with a red tiled roof here about 60 miles east of Los Angeles, one of the areas flooded with foreclosures after the housing market bust. Scribbling on a clipboard, he noted the dated bathroom vanities, the tatty family room carpet and a hole in a bedroom wall. Twenty minutes later, he plugged these details into a program on his iPad, choosing from drop-down menus to indicate the house had dual pane windows and that the kitchen appliances needed replacing.
The software calculated that it would take $25,413.53 to get the home in rental shape. Mr. Hladik adjusted that estimate down to $18,400 because he deemed the landscaping in good shape. He uploaded his report to Waypoint's database, where appraisers and executives would use the calculations to determine whether and how much to bid for the house.
With just three years of experience, Waypoint is one of the industry's grizzled veterans. But critics say newcomers could stumble. ''It's a very inefficient way to run a rental business,'' said Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist at Mizuho Securities USA. ''You could wind up with an inexperienced group owning properties that just deteriorate.''
The big investors are wooed by what they see as a vast opportunity. There are close to 650,000 foreclosed properties sitting on the books of lenders, according to RealtyTrac, a data provider. An additional 710,000 are in the foreclosure process, and according to the Mortgage Bankers Association, about 3.25 million borrowers are delinquent on their loans and in danger of losing their homes.
With so many families displaced from their homes by foreclosure, rental demand is rising. Others who might previously have bought are now unable to qualify for loans. The homeownership rate has dropped from a peak of 69.2 percent in 2004 to 66 percent at the end of 2011, according to census data.
Economists say that these investors could help stabilize home prices. ''If you have a lot of foreclosures in one community you will improve everybody's home values if you take them off the market,'' said Diane Swonk, the chief economist at Mesirow Financial. ''If those homes are renovated and even rented, it is a lot better than having them stand empty.''
Until now, Waypoint, which focuses on the Bay Area and Southern California, has been buying foreclosed properties one by one in courthouse auctions or through traditional real estate agents.
The company, founded by Mr. Wiel, a former Boeing engineer and software entrepreneur, and Doug Brien, a one-time N.F.L. place-kicker who had invested in apartment buildings, evaluates each purchase using data from multiple listing services, Google maps and reports from its own inspectors and appraisers.
An algorithm calculates a maximum bid for each home, taking into account the cost of renovations, the potential rent and target investment returns -- right now the company averages about 8 percent per property on rental income alone. By 5:30 on a recent morning, Joe Maehler, a regional director in Waypoint's Southern California office, had logged onto his computer and pulled up a list of about 70 foreclosed properties that were being auctioned later that day in Riverside and San Bernardino Counties.
Looking at a three-bedroom bungalow in San Bernardino, he saw that Waypoint's system had calculated a bid of $103,000. Mr. Maehler, who previously advised investors on commercial mortgage-backed securities deals, clicked on a map and saw that rents on comparable homes the company already owned could justify a higher offer. The house also had a pool, which warranted another price bump.
By the time the auctioneer opened the bidding on the lawn in front of the San Bernardino County Courthouse at $114,750, Mr. Maehler had authorized a maximum bid of just over $130,000.
As the auction proceeded, Waypoint's bidder at the courthouse remained on the phone with Mr. Maehler in the company's Irvine office about 50 miles away.
''Stay on it,'' Mr. Maehler urged as the bidding went up in $100 increments. The bidder clinched it for $129,400.
The sting of the housing collapse, driven in part by investors who bought large bundles of securities backed by bad mortgages, makes some critics wary of the emerging market.
''I don't have a lot of confidence that private market actors who now see another use for these houses as rentals, as opposed to owner-occupied, are necessarily going to be any more responsible financially or responsive to community needs,'' said Michael Johnson, professor of public policy at the University of Massachusetts, Boston. Waypoint executives say they plan to be long-term landlords, and usually sign two-year leases. Once the company buys a property, it typically paints the house and installs new carpets, kitchen appliances and bathroom fixtures, spending an average of $20,000 to $25,000. It tries to keep existing occupants in the house -- although only 10 percent have stayed so far -- and offer tenants the chance to build toward a future down payment.
Waypoint's inspectors are evaluating hundreds of properties that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are offering for sale. Because the inspectors are not allowed inside these homes, they are driving by 40 of them a day, estimating renovation costs by looking at eaves, windows and the conditions of lawns.
Rick Magnuson, executive managing director of GI Partners, Waypoint's largest investment partner, said ''the jury is still out'' on whether Waypoint -- or any other investor -- can manage such a large portfolio. But, he said, ''with the technology at Waypoint, we think they can get there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alan Hladik, inspecting a home in California, uses an iPad to calculate the cost to renovate homes for rentals. (B1)
Brady Shank bidding on property for Waypoint at a real estate auction in Corona, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 John Millino inspects homes for the Waypoint Real Estate Group. The company plans to buy 10,000 to 15,000 more homes by the end of 2013 to turn into rentals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HOME PRICES (71%); BONDS (69%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); DIVIDENDS (51%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (63%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); OAKTREE CAPITAL GROUP LLC (53%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); OAK (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (53%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (53%)

PERSON: LEW RANIERI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (77%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); GEORGIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



67 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Small Banks Shift Charters To Avoid U.S. As Regulator

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

 BODY:
A small community bank in New Hampshire found a demand from its regulator last month just too much.
Monadnock Community Bank in Peterborough was ordered to do a thorough review of how it collected payments on its delinquent loans, said William Pierce, the chief executive. That meant diverting three of its 18 employees to comb through reams of mortgages.
''We've had two foreclosures in the last four years, and yet here we had to do it anyway because our regulator only knows how to deal with the behemoth banks,'' said Mr. Pierce, referring to the regulator, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
Frustrated, Mr. Pierce agreed to sell his institution, which has $82 million in assets and a charter as a savings and loan association, to the GFA Federal Credit Union in Gardner, Mass., a credit union overseen by the National Credit Union Association -- not the comptroller's office. 
An increasing number of the nation's more than 600 savings and loan associations are fleeing the comptroller's office as they navigate a shifting regulatory landscape. The Dodd-Frank financial reform law closed their longtime regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, and moved them to the comptroller. A few of these institutions are trying to become credit unions, and many others are choosing state oversight. Nationally, 35 have applied to switch from national to state charters since July 2011.
While the banks say that they are looking for a regulatory agency that understands them, some former industry experts have expressed concern that the financial institutions are regulator shopping.
The Office of Thrift Supervision was a notoriously easy supervisor, said James Gilkeson, a former regulator at the comptroller's office. ''Going to state and credit union regulators is clearly a search for the next best thing,'' he said.
Banks are displaying a familiar pattern, Mr. Gilkeson said. After each financial crisis, lawmakers try to buttress regulation by closing a weak supervisor and consolidating oversight under a stronger central agency. Then many banks, faced with a new regulator, try to find more lenient supervision. In the late 1980s, because of the savings and loan crisis, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board was closed and the new Office of Thrift Supervision, he said, was going to be the ''big muscle.''
The latest migration is getting bank regulators' attention. ''We are dealing with a false perception that the O.C.C. doesn't understand community banks,'' said Jennifer Kelly, senior deputy comptroller for midsize bank supervision in the office.
The agency says it is committed to local regulation. As an example, it points to its team of 207 midsize or community bank examiners in Texas alone.
Still, New York has seen an uptick in applications from nationally chartered banks that want to be overseen by the state, according to Benjamin M. Lawsky, the New York superintendent of financial services.
Community bankers vociferously deny that they are hunting for lax regulators. What they want, they say, is a regulator more in touch with the issues faced by the nation's smaller banks, which are different from the ones faced by their larger national counterparts. ''The O.C.C. basically punishes the community banks as if we committed the sins of risky lending that the biggest banks did,'' Mr. Pierce said.
No one disputes that regulators allowed banks to distribute risky loans to subprime borrowers, among other dubious practices, leading up to the financial crisis. But some community bankers say that the tighter regulation that has resulted has gone too far and should be focused more on the nation's largest banks. Even though their capital requirements are different from those of the biggest banks, the smaller banks say that requirements for loan-loss reserves, for example, are depleting them of capital that could be otherwise used for loans.
Despite their complaints, small banks were not immune from the financial crisis. This year, 16 community banks, which have up to $10 billion in assets, have failed. The pace of bank failures is slowing, though. Last year, 92 community banks failed.
To get a new regulator, banks have two options under state and federal banking laws. They can become a credit union -- either through a charter conversion or through an acquisition, as Mr. Pierce's bank did -- or they can convert to a state charter.
Gary Easterling, the chief executive of the United Federal Credit Union, which bought Griffith Savings Bank in Indiana in January, said that community banks considered credit unions to be more of a peer than the nation's largest banks.
Dime Savings Bank in Brooklyn chose to convert from a federal to a state charter last month. So did Midstate Federal Savings & Loan Association in Baltimore. Frost Bank in San Antonio traded its century-old national charter for a state one in February. ''Dodd-Frank is a dump-truck bill with many unintended consequences,'' said Richard Evans, the chief executive of Frost. ''We need a local regulator, especially as regulatory demands grow.''
Still, some worry that the flight from the federal comptroller is the kind of regulatory arbitrage that the Dodd-Frank bill was meant to prevent, and they point out that state supervisors are historically weak.
''This looks like the banks are trying to avoid tough regulation by heading to the states,'' said Amit Seru, a professor of business at the University of Chicago whose research comparing state and federal regulators was published in January.
Along with economists at the Federal Reserve Bank in Chicago, Professor Seru found that state regulators consistently went easier on banks than their federal counterparts.
The call for a more ''locally focused regulator,'' Mr. Gilkeson said, is actually code for wanting a regulator who is more accommodating. ''I think that the banks feel small and unable to lobby the O.C.C.''
With a state charter, banks primarily report to the state banking supervisor, with some additional oversight from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Reserve System. Inspection costs generally fall when banks make that conversion.
Verus Bank in Derby, Kan., handed in its federal charter for a state one last year, and the change will save $30,000 a year in fees alone, said Kyle Russell, the bank's president.
If a bank switches to a credit union charter, it may save in another way: on taxes. Credit unions are exempt from taxes because of their nonprofit status. They were originally created to serve distinct communities of people, like union workers.
''It's definitely an added benefit,'' said Mr. Easterling of the United Federal Credit Union.
This year, only Thrivent Financial Bank in Appleton, Wis., has applied for a credit union charter, said John Zimmerman, a spokesman for the credit union association. But that may be just the beginning.
Doug Faucette, a lawyer who leads the banking and transaction group of Locke Lord Bissell & Liddell, said that he had fielded a flurry of calls since the summer from community banks interested in converting their charters to credit unions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William Pierce of Monadnock Community Bank said the new regulations were too cumbersome. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HERB SWANSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); COMMUNITY BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); CREDIT UNIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (57%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



68 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Public Workers Rushed to Join Pensions Before Albany's Cutbacks Took Effect

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN and KATE TAYLOR; Thomas Kaplan reported from Albany, and Kate Taylor from New York.

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Thousands of public employees across New York State rushed to sign up for pensions over the last several weeks, seeking to lock in generous retirement benefits before cuts approved by the State Legislature took effect on Sunday.
At the New York City Employees' Retirement System, for example, more than 12,000 workers applied last week to enroll in the pension system -- more than 40 times the typical weekly number of applicants. And the New York City Board of Education Retirement System received nearly 9,000 applications over the last two weeks, after enrolling only 122 new members in all of February. 
''It's just common-sense economics here,'' said Stephen Madarasz, a spokesman for the Civil Service Employees Association, the state's largest union of public workers. ''You're looking at an enormous difference in benefits.''
Lawmakers approved the changes last month, requiring most employees who joined the pension system beginning on April 1 to contribute more to their pensions while reducing how much money they are promised when they retire.
Public-employee unions, which had unsuccessfully fought to dissuade the Legislature from reducing pension benefits, campaigned using social media and traditional forms of outreach to persuade workers to sign up before the benefits dropped. The New York State United Teachers asked local union leaders to alert their members.
The Public Employees Federation sent an e-mail alert to thousands of workers and posted on its Facebook page. And District Council 37, the city's largest municipal employees' union, used lunchtime meetings with its members, as well as Facebook, Twitter, public access television and a variety of media appearances to reach its members.
Many city and state workers are automatically enrolled in a pension system, but others, including some with part-time jobs, choose whether to sign up. Some have not done so because participating in the system requires making a regular employee contribution to the pension fund. ''We encouraged them to get in now so that they wouldn't have to work longer, receive less,'' said Lillian Roberts, the executive director of District Council 37.
But Edmund J. McMahon, senior fellow at the Empire Center for New York State Policy, a conservative research group, suggested that the flood of applications was driven partly by hype and fear, rather than by a rational assessment of what he described as incremental changes to public employee pension plans. The unions, he said, ''are talking about it as if it's the difference between having a pension or no pension, which is ridiculous.''
New York is among dozens of states that have sought to reduce pension benefits to workers as the economy has slowed the growth of tax revenues and the size of pension-fund assets. State and local governments nationwide say they are struggling to pay retirement benefits promised to employees.
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat, joined forces with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and local government officials from around the state to urge the Legislature to reduce pension benefits, arguing that the existing system had become unaffordable. The reductions do not affect employees who enrolled in the pension plan before Sunday.
The Teachers' Retirement System of the City of New York, for example, saw a spike in applications from workers like teachers' aides, who, unlike teachers, are not automatically enrolled in the system. Matthew Laskowski, a public information officer for the system, said it had received close to 5,000 applications since the pension legislation was passed.
Pension system officials still have to check applications to make sure the employees are eligible, but both sides of the pension issue said the surge in applications demonstrated that the recent changes to the pension system were significant.
''The numbers speak for themselves in terms of the response,'' said Mario Cilento, the president of the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O., which opposed the pension cuts. He said workers across the state recognized, and wanted to avoid, a ''drastic reduction of benefits.''
The largest surge in pension enrollments came in New York City, because the last time the Legislature reduced pension benefits, in 2009, it largely excluded city employees. That meant that for city workers, the gap between the pension for those who enrolled by Saturday, and those who enrolled Sunday or after, was particularly large.
Final data on pension enrollments were not available on Monday, but officials in the city and in Albany said all signs pointed to a sharp increase.
The city's Board of Education Retirement System kept its office open longer on weekdays and opened the past two Saturdays to accommodate the influx of pension applicants. And the city's Employees' Retirement System also opened on Saturday, a first, said Karen Mazza, the system's general counsel, and accepted faxed applications until 11:59 p.m.
Outside of New York City, 4,075 public employees signed up to join the state pension system from March 1 to March 29, according to the state comptroller's office. That was nearly triple the 1,399 people who registered in March 2011.
The New York State Teachers' Retirement System also saw an uptick; a spokesman estimated that the system recorded more than 1,500 new enrollments last month, compared with 1,035 in March 2011.
A spokesman for Mr. Cuomo's budget office said the spike in pension enrollments would not have a measurable impact on the state's pension system. The bulk of the projected savings from the pension changes are expected over the long term -- $82 billion over 30 years for the state and local governments, according to the Cuomo administration. But only $1.2 billion is expected to be saved over the next five years.
Budget experts were divided on whether the deluge of last-minute applications would have much of an impact on New York City's finances.
''No question it's going to take some bite out of projected savings,'' said Doug Turetsky, the chief of staff for the city's Independent Budget Office. But he said it was too soon to tell what the ultimate cost would be, because some of those who signed up recently may not end up working for the city long enough to receive a pension.
Carol Kellermann, the president of the Citizens Budget Commission, said she did not expect the rush of applications to have significant budget implications for the city, in part because the affected employees are mostly lower-paid.
''It's school aides -- it's not police and firemen or teachers, who have the higher salaries and the bigger pensions,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (87%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); SOCIAL MEDIA (71%); CONSERVATISM (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION (56%); NEW YORK STATE UNITED TEACHERS (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



69 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: Push for the Right to Die Grows in the Netherlands

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
AMSTERDAM -- It was 1989, and Dr. Petra de Jong, a Dutch pulmonologist, was asked for help by a terminally ill patient, a man in great pain with a large cancerous tumor in his trachea. He wanted to end his life.
She gave the man pentobarbital, a powerful barbiturate -- but not enough. It took him nine hours to die.
''I realize now that I did things wrong,'' Dr. de Jong, 58, said in an interview in her office here. ''Today you can Google it, but we didn't know.''
Her warm and sincere manner belies, or perhaps attests to, her calling. The man was the first of 16 patients whom Dr. de Jong, now the head of the euthanasia advocacy group Right to Die-NL, has helped to achieve what she calls ''a dignified death.'' 
Founded in 1973, Right to Die-NL has been at the forefront of the movement to make euthanasia widely available in the Netherlands, even as the practice remains highly controversial elsewhere. Polls find that an overwhelming majority of the Dutch believe euthanasia should be available to suffering patients who want it, and thousands formally request euthanasia every year.
Right to Die-NL, which claims 124,000 members, made worldwide headlines in early March with the news that it was creating mobile euthanasia teams to help patients die at home. The organization has also courted controversy with its call for legislation to make euthanasia available to anyone over age 70, sick or not.
Dr. de Jong said more than 100 requests have been made for the mobile service. Several of them are being evaluated, and euthanasia has been performed in one case.
Advocates and critics of assisted suicide are watching the organization's efforts closely. Rick Santorum, the Republican presidential candidate from Pennsylvania, created something of a stir in February when he asserted -- wrongly -- that euthanasia accounted for 5 percent of all deaths in the Netherlands, and that many elderly Dutch wore wristbands that said ''Do not euthanize me.'' Dutch officials quickly countered the claims.
''Internationally, the Dutch have pushed the conversation on both the wisdom of allowing people to choose how and when they die when they're in great suffering, and on the nature of compassion in dying,'' said Paul Root Wolpe, director of the Center for Ethics at Emory University in Atlanta.
Under the Netherlands' 2002 Termination of Life on Request and Assisted Suicide Act, doctors may grant patients' requests to die without fear of prosecution as long as they observe certain guidelines. The request must be made voluntarily by an informed patient who is undergoing suffering that is both lasting and unbearable. Doctors must also obtain the written affirmation of a second, independent physician that the case meets the requirements and report all such deaths to the authorities for review.
Dr. de Jong said Dutch physicians typically euthanize patients by injecting a barbiturate to induce sleep, followed by a powerful muscle relaxant like curare. For assisted suicide, the doctor prescribes a drug to prevent vomiting, followed by a lethal dose of barbiturates.
Almost 80 percent of all such deaths take place in patients' homes, according to the Royal Dutch Medical Association. In 2010, the latest year for which data are available, doctors reported 3,136 notifications cases of ''termination of life on request.'' Serious illnesses -- late-stage cancer, typically -- lie behind a vast majority.
Euthanasia is responsible for about 2 percent of all deaths annually in the Netherlands, according to Eric van Wijlick, a policy adviser for the association.
Euthanasia is typically carried out by the general practitioners who serve as the backbone of the country's universal health care system, doctors who often have enjoyed long relationships with their patients and know their feelings well. Mr. van Wijlick said the euthanasia law was possible because of ''the moderate and open climate we have in the Netherlands, with respect for other points of view,'' and acknowledged that it would be difficult to carry out elsewhere, because everyone in the Netherlands has access to health care, an income and housing.
''There are no economic reasons to ask for euthanasia,'' he said, something that might not be true in the United States, with its for-profit health care system.
The mobile teams were needed, Dr. de Jong said, because many general practitioners, either for moral reasons or perhaps because of uncertainty about the law, refused to help suffering patients to die after it had become too late to find another doctor. The mobile teams will work to help them do so, she said.
Say a hypothetical 82-year-old man with metastasizing prostate cancer and poor prospects is told by his doctor that does not qualify for euthanasia. The man could contact the Right to Die-NL's new ''life-ending clinic,'' and if he appeared to meet the criteria, a doctor and a nurse would go to his home to make an assessment. If all the conditions were met, he would be euthanized, ideally with his family beside him.
Dr. de Jong emphasized that a patient could never be euthanized on the initial visit, because the law requires that a second physician be consulted.
Even in the Netherlands, some think Right to Die-NL may now be going too far. In addition to the mobile teams, the organization is among those pushing to give all people 70 years old and over the right to assisted death, even when they are not suffering from terminal illness. (The conservative government of Prime Minister Mark Rutte has said there will be no changes to the law under its tenure.)
''We think old people can suffer from life,'' Dr. de Jong said. ''Medical technology is so advanced that people live longer and longer, and sometimes they say 'enough is enough.' ''
Mr. Wijlick said the Royal Dutch Medical Association was ''uneasy'' with the mobile teams because ''the question of euthanasia can't be taken out of isolation of the care of the patient,'' which should be in the hands of the primary caregiver, the general practitioner.
Most of the time, he added, there is a good reason that a doctor refuses euthanasia. Often, it is because the doctor believes the patient's case does not meet the criteria set out by law.
The association also opposes euthanasia for those ''suffering from life.'' ''There must always be a medical condition,'' Mr. van Wijlick said. Still, in such cases a doctor could explain to patients how to deny themselves food and drink, he noted, and could assist with any suffering that entailed.
The Dutch patients' organization N.P.V., a Christian group with 66,000 members, strongly criticizes the current application of the law, saying the practice of euthanasia has been extended to encompass patients with dementia and other conditions who may not by definition be competent to request help in dying.
Elise van Hoek-Burgerhart, a spokeswoman for the N.P.V., said in an e-mail that the idea of mobile euthanasia teams was ''absurd,'' and that there was no way the mobile-team doctors could get to know a patient in just a few days. Moreover, she added, research shows that 10 percent of requests for euthanasia from the elderly would disappear if palliative care were better.
She also noted that the law requires review committees to sign off on every reported case of euthanasia, but that 469 cases from 2010 had still not been reviewed, meaning it was not clear how well doctors were adhering to the official guidelines.
Dr. Wolpe, the Emory University bioethicist, said he was ''generally supportive'' of people's right to choose their own death, but that he was troubled by some trends in the Netherlands, including the extension of euthanasia to people who were not suffering physically.
''When you switch from purely physiological criteria to a set of psychological criteria, you are opening the door to abuse and error,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 4, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about a movement in the Netherlands to make voluntary euthanasia widely available described incorrectly the powerful muscle relaxant curare, which is typically administered in euthanasia. Curare causes respiratory paralysis; it does not stop the heart.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AMSTERDAM: Dr. Petra de Jong leads the euthanasia advocacy group Right to Die-NL. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HERMAN WOUTERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATH & DYING (93%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (92%); SUICIDE (89%); CANCER (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); NECK DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); HEAD & NECK CANCER (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ETHICS (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (62%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (51%) GEORGIA, USA (51%) NETHERLANDS (93%); UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



70 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Selling America Abroad

BYLINE: By HARRIET EDLESON

 BODY:
Time was when just the mention of the Grand Canyon, the Pacific Coast Highway or the New York skyline was enough to entice tourists from around the world. But that was before 9/11 and the rise of security barriers on entering the United States. And it was before Asia's economic renaissance drew travelers there.
So come May, the United States will begin a coordinated effort to market itself overseas, using billboards, social media, public relations, trade shows and educational campaigns. 
The marketing effort grows out of a 2010 law, the Travel Promotion Act, that was pushed by the American travel industry. The U.S. Travel Association, the industry trade group, had noted that the United States' share of global travel had declined from 2000 to 2010 and that the country's economy was losing billions of dollars in visitor spending as a result.
The law created a nonprofit travel promotion corporation, now known as Brand USA, which is being financed with both public and private money, to run the marketing campaign. The first three targets are Britain, Canada and Japan, said James Evans, chief executive of Brand USA. Later, the promotion may move on to Germany, France, Japan, Brazil, China and India.
''They'll see a campaign inviting them to the United States, and that's never happened before,'' said George Fertitta, the chief executive of NYC & Company, who is on Brand USA's board. ''Brand USA will be an advertising, communications and marketing effort, opening up America to visitors, giving them many reasons why now is the time to come and visit.''
While the sheer number of visitors to the United States has risen over the last 10 years, the number of travelers worldwide has grown even more in that time. As a result, the United States' share of the total travel market is down, to 11.2 percent in 2010 from 17.3 percent in 2000.
It is no coincidence that Britain is one of the first targets of the marketing efforts. Over the last 10 years, the proportion of travelers coming to the United States ''fell most dramatically in the U.K.,'' said Geoff Freeman, the chief operations officer of the U.S. Travel Association. There were also big declines in the same period in travel from France (down 23.2 percent), Brazil (down 20.3 percent), Germany (down 19.2 percent) and Japan (down 5.8 percent).
Mr. Freeman attributed the American decline to ''a variety of factors.'' ''After Sept. 11, the perception formed around the world that America was not as welcoming as it once was, that there was difficulty in accessing the visa, and the entry process through customs was inefficient,'' he said.
''Interest in America is high and has largely remained high but there has been the perception that 'America isn't interested in me so I won't go,' '' Mr. Freeman said. '' 'Go away' was the message we were sending.''
From U.S. Travel Association interviews with travelers, Mr. Freeman said, the industry learned that people who had been to the United States would return, despite the obstacles, perceived or real. ''But the younger travelers or those who haven't been there would go elsewhere,'' he said.
To combat the United States' loss of market share, the travel industry united, pushing Congress to pass the Travel Promotion Bill of 2009, which created Brand USA, the marketing entity. Brand USA is now set to last until September 2015, relying on a combination of private funds and a $14 fee per traveler from the 36 countries whose citizens do not need a visa to enter the United States.
Brand USA's goal is to raise $150 million this year. So far, Marriott International, the Walt Disney Company and Best Western International have agreed to invest $1 million each, along with additional contributions including cooperative marketing efforts and professional and volunteer services. These will all be matched 2 to 1 this year from the travelers' fees to yield about $21 million toward the $150 million goal, said the spokeswoman for BrandUSA, Anne Madison.
The competition to attract foreign tourists includes nine countries that spend from $50 million to more than $150 million annually to promote themselves: Australia ($106.7 million), Canada ($91.9 million), France ($96.0 million), Germany ($50.8 million), Italy ($56.6 million), Mexico ($173.8 million), South Korea ($80.5 million), Turkey ($96.8 million) and Britain ($160 million).
''We're the last to the party,'' said Chris Perkins, chief marketing officer for Brand USA.
The U.S. Travel Association will be working with Brand USA on the annual International Pow Wow event at Los Angeles Convention Center from April 21 to April 25 at which representatives from 70 countries are to meet with more than 1,000 American travel organizations to buy travel products that they then repackage and sell in their countries.
The focus of Brand USA is to market the United States as a destination that includes a variety of experiences, he added. ''We're selling the whole and not the parts, the belief system, and the ideal as well as the destination,'' he said. ''We're partnering with different states, regions and attractions.''
Travel industry research shows that for every 35 foreign visitors, one new job is created. The goal of Brand USA is to generate ''a tremendous amount of inbound tourism that turns into an economic driver,'' Mr. Perkins said. ''This is about creating jobs for America.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 5, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on the Itineraries pages on Tuesday, about a campaign to promote foreign tourism in the United States, erroneously attributed a distinction to the effort. The marketing project is the first undertaken under the Travel Promotion Act, enacted in 2010, but it is not the nation's ''first coordinated effort to market itself overseas.'' (The United States Travel and Tourism Administration, a Commerce Department agency, did similar marketing work until it was eliminated in 1996.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James Evans, chief of Brand USA, which is aiming to raise $150 million this year for its promotions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET SHARE (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (93%); ASIA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CANADA (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



71 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Insider Offers Rare and Candid Glimpse of U.S.-China Friction

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

 BODY:
BO'AO, China -- The senior leadership of the Chinese government increasingly views the competition between the United States and China as a zero-sum game, with China the likely long-range winner if the American economy and domestic political system continue to stumble, according to an influential Chinese policy analyst.
China views the United States as a declining power, but at the same time believes that Washington is trying to fight back to undermine, and even disrupt, the economic and military growth that point to China's becoming the world's most powerful country, according to the analyst, Wang Jisi, the co-author of ''Addressing U.S.-China Strategic Distrust,'' a monograph published this week by the Brookings Institution in Washington and the Institute for International and Strategic Studies at Peking University. 
Mr. Wang, who has an insider's view of Chinese foreign policy from his positions on advisory boards of the Chinese Communist Party and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, contributed an assessment of Chinese policy toward the United States. Kenneth Lieberthal, the director of the John L. Thornton Center for China Studies at Brookings, and a former member of the National Security Council under President Bill Clinton, wrote the appraisal of Washington's attitude toward China.
In a joint conclusion, the authors say the level of strategic distrust between the two countries has become so corrosive that if not corrected the countries risk becoming open antagonists.
The United States is no longer seen as ''that awesome, nor is it trustworthy, and its example to the world and admonitions to China should therefore be much discounted,'' Mr. Wang writes of the general view of China's leadership.
In contrast, China has mounting self-confidence in its own economic and military strides, particularly the closing power gap since the start of the Iraq war. In 2003, he argues, America's gross domestic product was eight times as large as China's, but today it is less than three times larger.
The candid writing by Mr. Wang is striking because of his influence and access, in Washington as well as in Beijing. Mr. Wang, who is dean of Peking University's School of International Studies and a guest professor at the National Defense University of the People's Liberation Army, has wide access to senior American policy makers, making him an unusual repository of information about the thinking in both countries. Mr. Wang said he did not seek approval from the Chinese government to write the study, nor did he consult the government about it.
It is fairly rare for a Chinese analyst who is not part of the strident nationalistic drumbeat to strip away the official talk by both the United States and China about mutual cooperation.
Both Mr. Wang and Mr. Lieberthal argue that beneath the surface, both countries see deep dangers and threatening motivations in the policies of the other.
Mr. Wang writes that the Chinese leadership, backed by the domestic news media and the education system, believes that China's turn in the world has arrived, and that it is the United States that is ''on the wrong side of history.'' The period of ''keeping a low profile,'' a dictum coined by the Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping in 1989, and continued until now by the departing president, Hu Jintao, is over, Mr. Wang warns.
''It is now a question of how many years, rather than how many decades, before China replaces the United States as the largest economy in the world,'' he adds.
China's financial successes, starting with weathering the 1998 Asian financial crisis and the 2008 global financial crisis, the execution of events like the Beijing Olympics in 2008 and the Shanghai Expo in 2010, contrast with America's ''alarming'' deficit, sluggish economic recovery and polarized domestic politics, Mr. Wang says.
He does not address head on the far superior strength of the United States in military weaponry. But he notes that Beijing has developed advanced rocketry and space technology and sophisticated weapons systems without the ''United States or the U.S.-led world order.''
In the face of China's strengths, and worries that the United States will be displaced from its premier position in the world, Washington is engaged in activities including stepped-up spying by American planes and ships along China's borders that anger the Chinese, particularly its military, Mr. Wang writes.
Promotion of human rights in China by American-supported nongovernmental organizations is viewed as an effort to ''Westernize'' the country and undermine the Communist Party, a stance the party will not stand for, he says.
That China is increasingly confident that it will prevail in the long run against the United States is backed, in part, by Mr. Lieberthal's appraisal of American policy toward China.
Mr. Lieberthal cites findings from American intelligence based on internal discussions among crucial Chinese officials that these officials assume ''very much a zero-sum approach'' when discussing issues directly and indirectly related to United States-China relations.
Because these are privileged communications not intended for public consumption, American officials interpret them to be ''particularly revealing of China's 'real' objectives,'' he writes.
In turn, American law enforcement officials see an alarming increase in Chinese counterespionage and cyberattacks against the United States that they have concluded are directed by the Chinese authorities to gather information of national interest.
At a seminar last week at Tsinghua University in Beijing, where Brookings finances a study center, Mr. Lieberthal said there was an increasing belief on both sides that the two countries would be ''antagonistic in 15 years.''
That would mean major military expenditures by both countries to deter each other, and pushing other countries to take sides. ''The worst case is that this could lead to actual armed conflict, although that is by no means a necessary consequence of mutual antagonism,'' Mr. Lieberthal said in an interview.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The departing Chinese president, Hu Jintao, right, meeting with President Obama last month in Seoul, South Korea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); POLITICS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); IRAQ WAR (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (73%); BILL CLINTON (73%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



72 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: President Confident Health Law Will Stand

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama declared Monday that he was confident the Supreme Court would uphold his health care law, saying it would be an ''unprecedented, extraordinary'' step to overturn legislation passed by the ''strong majority of a democratically elected Congress.''
In his first public comments since court questioning last week suggested that it might find the Affordable Care Act unconstitutional, Mr. Obama offered both a robust defense of the law and a barbed warning to justices thinking of striking it down. 
''For years what we've heard is the biggest problem on the bench was judicial activism or the lack of judicial restraint, that an unelected group of people would somehow overturn a duly constituted and passed law,'' Mr. Obama said after meeting at the White House with the leaders of Mexico and Canada.
''Well, there's a good example,'' he continued, ''and I'm pretty confident that this court will recognize that, and not take that step.''
During three days of Supreme Court hearings on the case last week, the aggressive tenor of questions from several justices suggested that the law's central provision -- the individual mandate -- was in jeopardy. Some justices appeared to be looking for practical solutions if they invalidated all or parts of the law.
A ruling is expected in June, which would thrust the health care case into the thick of the presidential campaign. Mr. Obama, appearing to recognize that the law could be struck down, extolled its practical benefits and framed a case that could be used against the Supreme Court in an election-year debate.
The law's constitutionality, the president said, had been affirmed by legal scholars across the political spectrum, as well as by two conservative appeals court judges. It was passed by the House, 219 to 212, largely along party lines.
Mr. Obama said the legislation had brought affordable health care to 2.5 million young people, easing the burden on their parents, and had reduced the cost of prescription drugs for millions of older people.
''This is not an abstract argument,'' he said. ''People's lives are affected by the lack of availability of health care, the unaffordability of health care, or their inability to get health care because of preexisting conditions.''
''There is not only an economic element to this and a legal element to this, but there is a human element to this,'' said the president, who appeared in the Rose Garden, flanked by President Felipe Calderon of Mexico and Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada. ''I hope that's not forgotten in the political debate.''
Mr. Obama has not hesitated to challenge the Supreme Court before. In his State of the Union address in 2010, with several stone-faced justices sitting in the audience, he harshly criticized the court's decision in the Citizens United campaign finance case, saying it would ''open the floodgates for special interests -- including foreign corporations -- to spend without limit in our elections.''
Mr. Obama's response on health care overshadowed a news conference that touched on trade ties between the United States, Mexico and Canada, and American efforts to help Mexico combat drug-related violence.
The United States, the president said, needed to help Mexico both as a good neighbor and out of self-interest. Rampant drug-related violence south of the border, he said, could have a ''spillover effect'' on Americans living in or visiting Mexico, and could have ''a deteriorating effect overall on the nature of our relationship.''
Mr. Calderon blamed much of the violence on the steady flow of guns from the United States to Mexico. He also disputed that Mexico was alone in its problems, claiming that the rate of homicides per hundred thousand inhabitants in Washington is substantially greater than that of any big Mexican city.
President Obama was in South Korea for a nuclear security summit when the Supreme Court began hearing the health care case. But he followed it closely, administration officials said, reading a summary of the oral arguments on the flight home and discussing the case with his White House counsel.
On Monday, Mr. Obama rejected the idea that the individual mandate could be struck down without crippling the whole law. ''I think the justices should understand that, in the absence of an individual mandate, you cannot have a mechanism to insure that people with pre-existing conditions can actually get health care,'' he said.
The White House has insisted it is not developing contingency plans if the law is struck down. While a negative ruling would be a major symbolic defeat for the president, it is not clear how it would affect his re-election bid.
Public opinion toward the law is split, but a senior administration official said on Monday that only Republicans supported repealing it altogether. Another senior official noted that Mr. Obama himself initially opposed the individual mandate, before concluding that it would help curb cost increases in health care.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with President Felipe Calderon of Mexico, left, and Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada before a news conference at the White House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE LAW (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); JUDGES (73%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); CONSERVATISM (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%)

COMPANY: SPECTRUM ASA (65%)

TICKER: SPU (OSL) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541360 GEOPHYSICAL SURVEYING & MAPPING SERVICES (65%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (65%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (65%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); FELIPE CALDERON (58%); STEPHEN HARPER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (93%); MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



73 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: Ad Watch: Santorum Keeps Heat on Romney

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
9:37 p.m. Updated As he battles Mitt Romney, Rick Santorum is leaving little on the table. In his latest attack, a 30-second commercial running in Wisconsin before the Republican primary on Tuesday, Mr. Santorum makes several misleading claims that try to tie Mr. Romney to a number of positions that conservatives would find objectionable. 
THE SCRIPT
The ad opens with the obligatory candidate's approval (''I'm Rick Santorum, and I approved this message'') before quickly cutting to a stand-up shot of a spokeswoman. ''What if I told you this man's big-government-mandating health care included $50 abortions and killed thousands of jobs, would you ever vote for him?'' the woman asks, gesturing to a picture of President Obama in the background. ''What if I told you he supported radical environmental job-killing cap and trade and the Wall Street bailouts? And what if I told you he dramatically raised taxes and stuck taxpayers with a $1 billion shortfall? One more thing. What if I told you the man I'm talking about isn't him,'' she says as Mr. Obama's photo dissolves. ''It's him,'' she says as Mr. Romney's face appears. ON THE SCREEN
Political wisdom says that in a negative ad, a female announcer is more sympathetic. This ad takes that adage a step further; the announcer, a blond actress dressed in a conservative red blouse, is on camera for almost the entire commercial. By putting a soft face in front of such harsh claims, Mr. Santorum gains some distance from the attacks. Images are strategically spliced behind her: the ultrasound of a fetus, electricity-generating windmills, a man lighting a cigar with a flaming greenback.
ACCURACY
Mr. Santorum is not the first to misleadingly tie Massachusetts's public funding of abortions to Mr. Romney. Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor and 2008 Republican presidential candidate, raised the issue in a campaign commercial that ran briefly before the Iowa caucuses. Massachusetts does provide coverage of abortions under Medicaid, but the issue was settled by a 1981 court decision - long before Mr. Romney signed the state's universal health coverage act into law in 2006. The idea that Mr. Romney left Massachusetts's economy weakened - by destroying jobs and leaving the state treasury with a budget shortfall - is also misleading. When Mr. Romney became governor in 2003, the state faced a budget gap of nearly $3 billion and was losing thousands of jobs a month. By the time he left office four years later, the state was adding jobs and had a rainy day fund of about $2 billion. He did not raise sales or income taxes. Mr. Romney took credit for leaving the state in a strong economic position, and that is in some dispute. His successor, Deval Patrick, claimed he inherited a $1.3 billion shortfall. But critics accused him of exaggerating that figure.
BOTTOM LINE
This ad says nothing new about Mr. Romney, but speaks volumes about Mr. Santorum. By taking a scorched-earth approach, Mr. Santorum is showing no signs of bowing to calls for Republican Party reconciliation.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK SANTORUM FOR PRESIDENT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); ABORTION (88%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); POLITICS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (74%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); MEDICAID (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); TAX INCREASES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); BAILOUTS (69%); WIND ENERGY (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (92%); MITT ROMNEY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



74 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Romney Cites Obama's Energy Policy in Rise of Nation's Gas Prices

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For several weeks, Mitt Romney has seized on the rising cost of gasoline to attack President Obama and his environmental aides for what Mr. Romney calls their misguided desire to see higher energy prices.
In an online town-hall-style meeting last week, Mr. Romney accused Mr. Obama of having a presidential policy intended to ''see energy prices rise,'' and he mocked the president for once saying that he would like gasoline prices to ''change gradually.''
''They have put in place policies that are designed to reduce our production of fossil-based fuels and drive up the cost of energy and therefore encourage people to move towards wind and solar which are of course much higher cost,'' Mr. Romney said in the Google+ hangout.
But Mr. Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, has in the past appeared much more open to the notion that rising energy costs could be good for the American economy. In his 2010 book, ''No Apology,'' Mr. Romney described a gradual increase in the cost of energy as the kind of market-based incentive that conservatives could embrace. 
While not suggesting particular policies that might lead to higher prices -- like an increase in the gas tax, a carbon tax or a cap-and-trade plan -- Mr. Romney praised the benefits that would flow from a slowly increasing cost of energy.
''Higher energy prices would encourage energy efficiency across the full array of American businesses and citizens,'' Mr. Romney wrote. ''It would provide industries of all kinds with a predictable outlook for energy costs, allowing them to confidently invest in growth.''
In the book, Mr. Romney called for greater domestic exploration and drilling. And he expressed concern about the collateral damage from higher energy prices on people who drive great distances, businesses that consume a lot of energy and people on fixed incomes.
But he acknowledged that allowing the price for gas and oil to rise could be the centerpiece of ''game-changing incentives'' that would alter consumer behavior when it came to buying cars and using electricity. That, he wrote, could help the country wean itself off an overreliance on foreign oil.
''To become energy secure, we may need to turn to those game-changing incentives that will lead individuals and businesses of all kinds to invest in efficiency and to reduce their use of oil and energy,'' he wrote.
Campaign aides say Mr. Romney's position on energy remains consistent. They say the energy chapter in his book carefully lays out the beliefs he now espouses as he seeks to become the Republican nominee. Asked to square Mr. Romney's statements in his book with his recent criticism of Mr. Obama, the Romney campaign replied by reiterating its assertion that the president is harming the economy by pushing for higher energy costs.
''President Obama is succeeding in his efforts to drive energy prices higher, producing the hardship for American families and businesses that Governor Romney predicted,'' Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for Mr. Romney, said. ''This is exactly why the governor has always rejected proposals that would increase prices, and why he instead supports a strategy of developing the extraordinary energy resources that we have in this country.''
On the campaign trail and in the book, Mr. Romney has condemned what he calls the ''radical, feel-good policies'' like the cap-and-trade plan to confront global warming that Mr. Obama pushed early in his presidency.
''Such policies would have little effect on the climate but could cripple economic growth with devastating results for people across the planet,'' he wrote.
And Mr. Romney continues to emphasize the need to increase domestic oil drilling, coal exploration and the use of nuclear power. He wrote that the ''right step'' is to ''get started by authorizing exploration and infrastructure construction.''
But as he has moved closer to the Republican nomination, Mr. Romney has adopted a much more aggressive approach to confronting Mr. Obama over energy prices.
That has intensified even more as the price of gas has jumped. In March of 2010, when the book was released, the average cost of a gallon of gas was $2.79. The current average price is more than $1 per gallon higher.
Mr. Romney has joined his Republican rivals and his party's leadership in Congress in blaming Mr. Obama and his administration for the rise in gas prices. His favorite targets are the secretary of energy, the secretary of the interior and the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
He calls them the gas hike trio, reserving particular scorn for Steven Chu, the energy secretary. Dr. Chu told The Wall Street Journal in 2008 that, ''somehow, we have to figure out how to boost the price of gasoline to the levels in Europe.''
''This gas hike trio has been doing the job over the last three and a half years, and gas prices are up,'' Mr. Romney charged this month. ''The right course is they ought to be fired.''
In the book, Mr. Romney proudly recalls his father, George Romney, who ran an auto company, deriding his competitors' cars as ''gas-guzzling dinosaurs.'' The younger Romney discusses the need to motivate people to buy high-mileage cars.
Noting the pain that accompanied the ''oil shocks of 1973 and 2008,'' Mr. Romney writes that the answer is higher gas prices with ''predictability and gradual change, not a roller-coaster ride.''
That approach is embraced by many liberals and conservatives alike. One of Mr. Romney's top economic advisers, N. Gregory Mankiw, an economist at Harvard University and a former Bush administration official, has advocated as recently as January for raising the tax on gasoline by more than $2 a gallon.
''If the tax on gasoline were higher, people would alter their behavior to drive less. They would be more likely to take public transportation, use car pools or live closer to work,'' Mr. Mankiw, a contributor to the Economic View column, wrote in The New York Times.
Charles Ebinger, the director of the energy security initiative at the Brookings Institution, said Mr. Romney's openness to the benefits of higher energy prices was similar to the approach that Mr. Obama's advisers had espoused for years.
''I think that's absolutely accurate in terms of what the administration has over time argued,'' Mr. Ebinger said. ''They always argued that it was a gradual increase that was needed. I think it is the same argument.''
Mr. Romney's aides deny that, saying that Mr. Romney is clear in the book that the economic costs of policies like higher gas taxes are -- on balance -- greater than the benefits. Despite praising a ''tax swap'' that would increase gas taxes and lower payroll taxes, for example, he concludes in the book that ''a great deal of work remains to be done if it is to become a viable option.''
Even so, Mr. Romney's book suggests an openness rarely heard on the campaign trail.
''We may hear of entirely new alternatives,'' Mr. Romney writes of ideas to reduce energy consumption. ''As Ross Perot said, 'I'm all ears.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney, center, greeted supporters at the Port of Pascagoula in Mississippi last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); GASOLINE PRICES (93%); GASOLINE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); WIND ENERGY (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CONSERVATISM (71%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (71%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); FUEL TAX (58%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



75 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By THOMAS GAFFNEY

 BODY:
8 P.M. (NBC) THE BIGGEST LOSER One of the many reasons to lose weight is the excuse to buy new clothes. Or, if you're a contestant on this show, to receive a free new wardrobe. The six remaining contestants get clothes to fit their slimmer waistlines when the fashion professional Jeannie Mai and the stylist Ken Paves join the show in this makeover episode. All dressed up, the contestants just need somewhere to go. That problem is solved when they receive an invitation to visit the White House and meet with the first lady, Michelle Obama. The contestants travel to Washington, where they reunite with their families and show the payoff from their hard work. In the second part of the episode, appearing next week, Mrs. Obama works out with them and discusses the benefits of an active lifestyle. Above, a scene from the show. 
10:15 A.M. (Showtime 2) OUTSOURCED (2007) After Todd Anderson (Josh Hamilton) loses his job as a call-center manager, he is sent to India to train his replacement in this film from John Jeffcoat. Todd is initially grumpy about the change in his fortunes and has trouble adjusting to the food, the crowds and the language. But then he falls for one of his colleagues at work, the bright and self-possessed Asha (Ayesha Dharker), and he learns to embrace India and recognize the benefits of change. Reviewing this movie for The New York Times, Matt Zoller Seitz called it ''a wonderful surprise'' and said ''the filmmakers treat Todd's story as a springboard for a smart look at the effect of cultural difference on work, friendship and love, and the global economy's impact on national and personal identity.''
6:30 P.M. (Cinemax) GET HIM TO THE GREEK (2010) Aldous Snow (Russell Brand), a British rock star who released a dud of an album, is booked to play a concert of his classics at the Greek Theater in Los Angeles. But he's so unreliable that someone has to accompany him physically across the Atlantic. That responsibility falls to Aaron Green (Jonah Hill), a record company representative who gets to meet (and baby-sit) this star, who is also his idol. In his review for The Times, A. O. Scott called Mr. Brand's performance ''brilliantly unpredictable.'' The film repeats at 12:20 a.m.
9 P.M. (NBC) THE VOICE One night after their first live performances, the 24 singers learn how they fared in the eyes of the voters. The coaches Christina Aguilera, Cee Lo Green, Blake Shelton and Adam Levine decide who will stay in the competition; four contestants will be eliminated.
9:35 P.M. (TMC) GOOD NEIGHBORS (2011) Tenants of a Montreal apartment building are shaken by a series of murders in the neighborhood, and they try to determine the killer's identity in this feature directed by Jacob Tierney. Louise (Emily Hampshire, above) is a waitress who becomes obsessed with the case, so she lingers over the newspaper each day with her downstairs neighbor Spencer (Scott Speedman), a sexy widower in a wheelchair. Victor (Jay Baruchel), a new arrival to the building, becomes fixated on Louise and tries unsuccessfully to join their armchair detective society. The film swerves from ''bland to brutal, endearingly coy to shockingly explicit,'' Jeannette Catsoulis wrote in The Times. She added that viewers ''are never in any doubt as to the identity of the serial killer who haunts the news and the neighborhood's shadowy corners, but suspense is not the point -- alienation is.''
10 P.M. (NBC) FASHION STAR To prove their versatility, the designers must make one top-of-the-line garment and one mass-market piece of apparel. Retailers then decide whether to bid on their creations, and any contestants who fail to receive offers could be sent home by the mentors: Jessica Simpson, Nicole Richie and John Varvatos.
10 P.M. (HGTV) HOUSE HUNTERS When Carmen landed a new job, she and Eric said goodbye to their home in San Francisco and moved to Indianapolis. They stayed for two months in a hotel room without having to pay because Carmen works in the hotel industry. But now it's checkout time, so they look for a home of their own. On ''House Hunters International,'' at 10:30, Miranda and Bart head to Melbourne, Australia, in search of a relaxed lifestyle conducive to spending time with their two young children. They explore suburban areas along Port Phillip Bay and decide on a house that will be best for their kids. THOMAS GAFFNEY

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID GLESBRECHT/NBC
 MAGNOLIA PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIETING (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); MOVIE REVIEWS (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (73%); OUTSOURCING (73%); CALL CENTERS (67%); POP & ROCK (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (61%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (61%); THEATER (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ASHA (54%)

PERSON: ADAM LEVINE (77%); BLAKE SHELTON (77%); MICHELLE OBAMA (69%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); CHRISTINA AGUILERA (50%); CEE LO GREEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) INDIA (87%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



76 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: A Question on Religion

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
HOWARD, Wis. - Before the young voter in Mitt Romney's town hall meeting here was even able to get his question out on Monday, Mr. Romney suspected where the conversation was headed.
''I know where this is going,'' Mr. Romney said as the voter, Bret Hatch 28, stood and - speaking haltingly and reading from a sheet of paper - tried to ask Mr. Romney a highly specific and provocative question about his religion.
''I guess a lot of people say that, you know, your Mormon faith may not be a concern in the election, but I think it might be,'' said Mr. Hatch, of Green Bay, Wis. 
Cherry-picking a verse from the Pearl of Great Price, a standard Mormon work, that refers to the no-longer-held belief by the Mormon church that dark-skinned people are inferior to whites, Mr. Hatch began trying to quote scripture as a Romney staffer tried to take away his microphone.
''Why don't you give me a question?'' Mr. Romney said, encouraging the voter to continue. ''I'm sorry, we're just not going to have a discussion about religion in my view, but if you have a question, I'll be happy to answer your question.''
The question, finally, was this: ''I guess my question is, do you believe it's a sin for a white man to marry and procreate with a black?''
''No,'' Mr. Romney said, cutting off Mr. Hatch. ''Next question.''
Mr. Hatch, an unemployed man currently looking for work as a truck driver, was not a typical town hall questioner; he is a supporter of Representative Ron Paul of Texas, and came to the event armed with a typed-out script and a fairly high-tech camera to try to record Mr. Romney's response.
Mr. Romney, however, briefly returned to the question later, in response to another voter question about how he would respond to the criticism that he's out of touch with average Americans.
''I've had an unusual experience,'' Mr. Romney said. ''This gentleman wanted to talk about the doctrines of my religion. I'll talk about the practices of my faith.''
He then talked about the ordinary Americans he's had the chance to counsel from his perch as a pastor in his church.
''That gave me the occasion to work with people on a very personal basis that were dealing with unemployment, with marital difficulties, with health difficulties of their own and with their kids,'' Mr. Romney said. ''Most Americans, by the way, are carrying a burden of some kind. We don't see it - we see someone on the street, they smile and say hello, but behind them they are carrying kind of a bag of rocks.''
Mr. Romney's own challenges, he added, have involved the struggles of his wife, Ann, ''beautiful, energetic and articulate,'' with multiple sclerosis and other illnesses.
''She has M.S., and she also had to fight breast cancer,'' he said. ''And I watched her as a person with great strength and capacity. You don't always see the things that are happening in people's lives, and yet, she wants to help people, and to reach out to those that are facing some difficulty.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORMONS & MORMONISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); RON PAUL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREEN BAY, WI, USA (58%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



77 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: April 3, 1948 | Truman Signs Marshall Plan, Providing Aid to Europe

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: On April 3, 1948, President Truman signed the Marshall Plan, which allocated more than $5 billion in aid to 16 European countries. 

 BODY:
On April 3, 1948, President Truman signed the Marshall Plan, which allocated more than $5 billion in aid to 16 European countries. In signing the plan, officially called the Economic Recovery Program, Truman declared, "This measure is America's answer to the challenge facing the free world."
The Marshall Plan was necessitated by the devastation of World War II in Europe and the emerging U.S. foreign policy of containment. European countries suffered widespread hunger and high levels of unemployment, which made their governments vulnerable to upheaval. The Truman administration, fearing that Soviet communism would spread to the West, hoped to combat and contain it by helping to rebuild European economies.
The New York Times explained, "Foreign developments, including the Communist coup in Czechoslovakia and the electoral maneuvers the Communists are making in Italy, greatly helped the passage of the bill."

The Marshall Plan was named for George Marshall, Army general and Truman's secretary of state, who first outlined the plan while delivering the Harvard University commencement address in June 1947. "It is logical that the United States should do whatever it is able to do to assist in the return of normal economic health in the world, without which there can be no political stability and no assured peace," he said.
Sixteen European nations met in Paris over the summer to negotiate how to organize the acceptance of U.S. aid. The Soviet Union and five Eastern Bloc countries refused to take part and would not receive Marshall Plan funding. 
Under the Marshall Plan, the United States provided more than $16 billion in loans, supplies and technical assistance to the 16 countries between 1948 and 1951. In order to receive this funding, each country had to agree to set liberal, capitalist economic policies and to expand trade with other European countries. 
The Western European economy improved greatly, as food cultivation, manufacturing production, employment rates and trade all increased. However, some economists debate the true impact of the Marshall Plan and whether economic improvements would have occurred without it. 
Connect to Today:
In October 2011, The Times reported that "America's budget crisis at home is forcing the first significant cuts in overseas aid in nearly two decades."
In a Times op-ed, Carol Giacomo argued against such cuts: "For the sake of national security, this country cannot afford to retreat from the world. Its investment in the State Department and foreign aid helps advance peace and stability by feeding starving people, providing access to doctors and medicines, opening new markets, promoting democracy, curbing nuclear arms and strengthening allies with military and economic assistance."
How does U.S. foreign aid today compare to the Marshall Plan era? Do you believe that foreign aid helps provide regional and international stability? Why or why not? At a time when many Americans are struggling financially, what arguments would you make for or against decreasing foreign aid?
Learn more about what happened in history on April 3
Learn more about Historic Headlines and our collaboration with findingDulcinea 

        
Oct. 5, 1947 | President Truman Uses First TV Address to Ask Americans to Conserve Food
        
Oct. 24, 1945 | United Nations Is Born
        
PUB-DATE: March 26, 1979
        
PUB-DATE: March 12, 1947
        
PUB-DATE: March 8, 1917

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (95%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); POLITICS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ARMIES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); STARVATION (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); COUPS (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (67%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (60%) aid; global politics; Harry S. Truman; Marshall Plan; World War II; Historic Headlines

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



78 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Beware of Budget Gimmickry

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: Trimming the budget deficit is hard work and requires compromise, and it's easy to turn to gimmicks and accounting maneuvers to give the illusion of progress, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
It's clear that the United States is entering a long period of budgetary confrontation. Sooner or later, meaningful action on the budget deficit will be necessary. And despite the best hopes of budget hawks, the likelihood of a grand bargain that will solve our problem once and for all is extremely remote.
Because all of the options for meaningful deficit reduction - tax increases, in particular - are extremely unpopular, it is inevitable that accounting gimmicks will be called upon to give the illusion of progress.
Budgetary gimmickry is at the heart of Europe's continuing debt problem. According to a 2010 article in The New York Times, Wall Street firms arranged for countries like Greece to borrow funds in ways that circumvented European Union budgetary rules by using financial derivatives that were hidden off-budget. 
Often, borrowing was disguised as an asset sale so that the borrowing receipts were classified as revenues rather than debt.
The International Monetary Fund has long been concerned about such budgetary gimmickry. Last week, it published a staff discussion note detailing some ways that governments may be tempted to use gimmickry to give the illusion of fiscal improvement.

The note begins by explaining the nature of fiscal gimmicks, which it calls "accounting devices." Their essence "is to improve headline indicators without actually improving public finances." 
Such a device usually involves measures that appear to improve the current-year deficit, but by increasing future years' deficits. They may take place on either side of the ledger - by appearing to reduce current spending in return for higher spending later or increasing current revenues in return for lower future revenues, or some combination of the two.
One classic form in which accounting devices operate is through "hidden borrowing." In Europe, governments sometimes took over the pension plans of private companies or public enterprises. 
In the short term, the government gained assets that appeared to reduce borrowing; but in the process it incurred a liability for future pension payments that was not immediately apparent on the government's books.
This technique has been used in the United States as well. States have been known to sell state assets and then lease them back in order to improve their near-term fiscal condition. Revenue from the sale is booked as revenue, while the long-term lease payments are pushed off to the future and may not be visible in budget documents.
Another instance of hidden borrowing involves currency swaps. The trickery involves cases where a nation specifies borrowing and repayments in foreign currencies at different exchange rates. Something like this got Italy into financial trouble some years ago and Greece more recently, according to the article in The Times.
The I.M.F. calls a second type of accounting device "disinvestment," which increases revenues in the near term while reducing future revenues. A common method of doing this involves the sale by governments of certain rights to future cash flows -- such as air-traffic-control fees or lottery process -- through securitization. The trickery is that the government often guaranteed the cash flows, effectively making the transactions loans rather than sales.
>Examples in the paper include selling the rights to lottery proceeds,
>air traffic control fees and tax receivables. See page 8.
>http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/cat/longres.aspx?sk=25795
xx
A third device is called "deferred spending." The United States is a guilty party to this sort of trickery. According to an Associated Press report published in The New York Times in 1987, the military payday was moved forward by a single day, which pushed $3 billion in spending from fiscal year 1987 into fiscal year 1988. There was no real saving, but on paper the budget deficit for 1987 was reduced by $3 billion.
Another type of deferred spending is where governments postpone maintenance on roads and public buildings. This classic penny-wise/pound-foolish behavior often costs more in the long run.
The I.M.F. also classifies some leasing arrangements as deferred spending, in cases where governments would typically purchase assets outright. It cites a 2003 proposal in which the Air Force would have leased 100 refueling planes from Boeing at a long-term cost 10 percent to 15 percent more than the cost of buying them, but in a way that reduced near-term spending.
Pensions are another classic form of deferred spending. Government workers may trade increases in pay for higher pensions in the distant future. The future pension liabilities may not appear in the budget but impose large future costs on taxpayers. 
The I.M.F. study includes the following table showing just how large future civil service pension liabilities can be.
A fourth type of budget trickery is called "forgone investment," which reduces near-term spending at the expense of lower future revenues. An example of this would be government concessions to private companies for airports and toll roads. Spending is lower by the amount that governments would otherwise spend for public works, but they lose the future tolls and other revenues that would have been collected.
Finally, there is a device called "disappearing government," in which national government costs are shifted to lower-level governments or off-budget agencies. The report cites the debts owed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as falling into this category.
A 2005 study by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development sought to catalog cases of fiscal gimmickry in Europe over a 10-year period. Virtually every country was found to have engaged in cases of "one-off measures," "creative accounting" and budgetary reclassifications to improve the appearance of the debt or fiscal balance. 
Not surprisingly, Greece was the worst offender, engaging in such activities annually, averaging 2 percent of G.D.P. a year.
A great deal of gimmickry is already embedded in American budgetary practices. The Government Accountability Office routinely calls attention to them, but Congress has never shown any willingness to consider reforms that would make the debt or the deficit appear larger. 
The pressure to reduce deficits will undoubtedly increase the incentive to engage in further trickery.

        
Tilting the Budget Process to the G.O.P.
        
The True Federal Debt
        
Balancing the Budget, for Real
        
A Close Look at the Perry Tax Plan
        
Are the Bush Tax Cuts the Root of Our Fiscal Problem?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (96%); BUDGET DEFICITS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); DIVESTITURES (88%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (67%); CURRENCIES (63%); EXCHANGE RATES (60%) Bruce Bartlett; budget; budget deficit; Congressional Budget Office; Daily Economist; deficit reduction; European debt crisis; federal budget; Greece; Budgets and Budgeting; International Monetary Fund; Europe; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%) International Monetary Fund

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GREECE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



79 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Screw Your Analysis to the Sticky Point

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Downward rigidity and the meaning of life. 

 BODY:
Via Mark Thoma, a new paper from the San Francisco Fed offers stunning evidence on downward nominal wage rigidity, a topic I've written about before.
What the paper shows is that many, many workers are getting precisely zero wage growth in dollar terms:
And there has been a sharp increase in the fraction of zero-wage-change workers:
These observations have huge implications for policy. Let me stress two implications, in particular:
1. The prevalence of zero-change wages constitutes overwhelming evidence that we're suffering from lack of demand, not lack of supply. It also undercuts one of the favorite arguments of those claiming that we really do have a supply-side problem, the persistence of (low) inflation and positive wage growth despite the low level of employment. The reason we have positive wage growth is that workers with a good bargaining position are still managing to eke out increases, while those without aren't facing wage cuts. More on that later today, when I have time.
2. The stickiness of wages even in the United States -- which has one of the most "flexible", aka brutal, labor markets in the advanced world, makes it clear just how huge the costs of the eurozone strategy of "internal devaluation" -- getting wages down in peripheral economies, until competitiveness is regained -- really is. By asking that Ireland, Spain, Portugal achieve double-digit falls in nominal wages, the Germans and the ECB are actually demanding something that basically never happens.
Very important stuff.
Oh, and someone is sure to chime in and say that this proves that the solution to unemployment is to make wages more flexible. No, it isn't: in a liquidity trapped, deleveraging economy lower wages would actually worsen the situation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EURO ZONE (74%); EVIDENCE (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); DEVALUATION (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (67%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%); SPAIN (51%); PORTUGAL (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



80 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 66 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Insider Offers Rare Glimpse of U.S.-China Frictions

BYLINE: MARK MCDONALD


HIGHLIGHT: The senior leadership of the Chinese government increasingly views the competition between the United States and China as a zero-sum game, with China the likely long-range winner if the American economy and domestic political system continue to stumble, according to Wang Jisi, an influential policy analyst who advises the Chinese Communist Party and the Foreign Ministry. 

 BODY:
BO'AO, China - The senior leadership of the Chinese government increasingly views the competition between the United States and China as a zero-sum game, with China the likely long-range winner if the American economy and domestic political system continue to stumble, according to Wang Jisi, an influential policy analyst who advises the Chinese Communist Party and the Foreign Ministry. Read more 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



81 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
The Guardian: Nettles: delicious, nutritious and possibly a few yards from your front door. -- Jeff Gordinier
: The First Lady of New York food vendors, Kim Ima (right) of the Treats Truck, says the N.Y.P.D. is systematically clearing Midtown of food trucks (not carts, which stand on the sidewalk, but trucks, which park in street parking spaces). -- Julia Moskin
New York: Tape it on your refrigerator: a listing of the opening dates for Gotham's haute seasonal outdoor feedlots, from Brooklyn Flea and Smorgasburg to Hester Street Fair and New Amsterdam Market. -- Glenn Collins 
The San Francisco Chronicle: So you're not going to drink any merlot? Really? Well, maybe you're right about that. Jon Bonn and company report. -- Eric Asimov 
The New York Post: Thinking outside the aquarium, an ex-banker is teaching Bronx children to farm their own fish for the dinner table. The school even has an impressive name: the Society for Aquaponic Values and Education. -- Patrick Farrell 
Handpicked Nation: The ever-provocative farmer Joel Salatin says the charge of "food elitism" is absurd, given how much Americans spend on things we don't need. "Don't complain about being unable to afford high-quality local food when your grocery cart is full of beer, cigarettes and People magazine," he writes. Ouch. -- Julia Moskin
Real Simple: Ten smart things to do with a heap of hard-boiled eggs. -- Jeff Gordinier
BlackBook: King of the road? Trying to claw its way back to the No. 2 spot that Wendy's recently claimed, Burger King is planning to launch a fleet of food trucks this month to offer samples from its new, expanded menu. The chain has already promised to start home deliveries next year. (Via Eater.) -- Patrick Farrell
Palate Press: Can the wine industry learn anything from craft beer producers? Jules Van Cruysen suggests that it can. -- Eric Asimov 
Food Republic: There's nothing straight up about this gin, which involved grapefruit, green tea and 18 months to create. A visit with the Brit who developed Beefeater 24. -- Patrick Farrell
: The food blogger Nancy Matsumoto profiles the spring charcuterie at Bar Boulud in New York, and explains difference between pts and terrines. -- Julia Moskin
Girl Farm Kitchen: Sara Barbour writes about (and provides a recipe for) rusks, a crunchy South African treat that you'll want to dunk in coffee or tea. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: The Department of Agriculture has proposed ending its practice of having inspectors examine every chicken that passes through the big slaughterhouses. Instead, the poultry companies would do most of the checking. Food safety advocates are up in arms. (Via Grub Street.) -- Patrick Farrell 
The Economist: Both boutique farmers and factory producers have the same craving: potable water, and a clutch of cutting-edge water-technology firms in California is supplying "reverse osmosis" desalination technology to 13,000 wastewater-recycling facilities throughout the world. But now they are suddenly building in global-warmed, groundwater-challenged California itself: despite the recycling "yuck" factor, and howls from environmentalists. -- Glenn Collins 
Poetry Foundation: Billy Collins sees the arc of a life in a swirl of salt on a table. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: Jeff Houck files an insider's tribute to this year's Pillsbury Bake-Off finalists. -- Julia Moskin 
: Bertrand Celce finds a secret sake restaurant in Tokyo, though drops enough clues that you should be able to find it, too. -- Eric Asimov
The Wall Street Journal: A blueberry smoothie at sunrise? Nice idea, but a strangely clean-living sort of way to toast the opening of Revel, the first new casino to open in Atlantic City since the Borgata in 2003. But then, Revel is billing itself as a "lifestyle resort," where drinking and gambling are just part of the fun. -- Patrick Farrell
Afar: A Massachusetts chef explores Sicily by bicycle. Stops are made for lemon granita and spleen sandwiches. -- Jeff Gordinier

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); FOOD SAFETY (77%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (77%); POULTRY (77%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (75%); BEER & ALE (75%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (74%); CHILDREN (72%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (72%); TEA (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); POULTRY PROCESSING (66%); BREWERIES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



82 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Goal)

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; soccer

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Bora Goes to Qatar

BYLINE: AARON ROSS


HIGHLIGHT: Bora Miltuniovic, Mr. Bora, has taken up residence in Qatar. 

 BODY:
Bora Milutinovic, the renowned international soccer coach, is notoriously hard to pin down.
Back when he coached the United States in the early 1990s, his constant evasions about rosters and tactics led one reporter to quip, "Milutinovic speaks five languages fluidly, but doesn't answer tough questions completely in any of them."
One afternoon last month, Bora (he operates on a strictly first-name basis) was leading a whirlwind tour of one of Qatar's countless monuments to its staggering wealth - this an obscenely lavish indoor sports facility in the capital, Doha, containing a full-size soccer field, multiple state-of-the-art weight rooms and an Olympic-length swimming pool. "This is the best example of how people have dreams to give best opportunity to people of Qatar," he said.
The pint-size Persian Gulf peninsula boasts the highest GDP per capita in the world. But Bora maintains that money has little to do with it. "No, no, no. Not just that," he said when the question comes up. But before elaborating, he snakes around the approaching corner and into the men's room.
Some 20 minutes later, he finally circles back. "Sure, money is important," he concedes, "but it's also important to have the goal of giving a chance to people." He adds that Qatar doesn't have political problems because "political problems are social problems and the people here are being taken care of."
Bora, 68, who since 1983 has managed eight different national teams - from Mexico in 1983 to Iraq in 2009 - insists he is done coaching. Not that he's stuck to that same vow in the past. But the so-called miracle worker of global soccer is enjoying his new job as, well, it's not entirely clear. When asked what he does in Qatar, Bora flashes an impish grin and replies: "I don't have a role. Only I share my experience."
That's not exactly true. Officially, Bora's an adviser at Aspire Academy, whose facilities he has just been flaunting, a sporting institute for Qatar's elite young athletes. Unofficially, he's a jack of all trades for Qatari sport - consultant, goodwill ambassador, and indefatigable salesman.
It's in this last role that Bora thrives. He settled in Qatar in 2009 to serve as "bid ambassador" for its successful campaign to host the 2022 World Cup and counts helping the sleepy emirate of 1.7 million people upset a field of the United States, Australia, Japan and South Korea among his finest accomplishments. "I'm very happy," he said, beaming about the experience. "I joke with the people. They ask me: 'Bora how you explain this?' This is easy: my team always wins."
Indeed, Bora has won a lot over his career. Of the eight different national teams he's coached, Bora has taken a record five to the World Cup. At the 1994 World Cup in the United States, he led a crew of journeymen to a narrow second-round defeat to eventual champion Brazil.
Characteristically, the Serb with the messy hair and mad scientist persona also succeeded in confounding everyone around him. "You really have to put all your faith and believe in what he's doing," defenderAlexi Lalas told The New York Times weeks before the tournament. "A lot of times, it's hard, because I have no idea what he's doing."
Bora returned to the States in 1998 to coach the then New York/New Jersey MetroStars of M.L.S. His hapless squad registered one of the worst records in league history in 1999. Thirteen years on, he's keen to defend his honor.
"You have to look the conditions I have to work," he launches in. "You know who is Tom Howard?"
As in Tim Howard?
"You know who put him in first team ever?" he continues, not missing a beat. "You know what they tell me. I'm nuts. But you know what happened. Two years after, he go in Manchester, and now how you going to judge me?"
But Bora's track record since the late '90s has fallen well short of the heights of his early years. His last gig, coaching Iraq in 2009, lasted just three weeks.
In Qatar, Bora has regained his swagger. Everyone in Doha seems to know Mr. Bora. At one hotel he pays a visit to, about 20 employees huddle around the front desk, swooning, as he exits. Bora reciprocates with a few wisecracks about the spotty service. Later in the day, at the Qatar Under-19 national team's training session, Bora packs the energy of a little kid. "Il faut pas dormir!" he yells in faux seriousness at a group of tired-looking players before insisting on a game of soccer golf. All the while, he keeps his eyes on the prize. "Do you see all the lights?" he said dramatically, gesturing around the six-field facility, its immaculately kept grounds ringed by a typical Qatari tableau of desert and half-complete construction projects.
From there, Bora's off to one of Doha's expat-rich gated communities, where it's his Serbian expat friend's wife's birthday. In an elegant home, adorned with leafy plants and family photos, smartly-dressed Serbs muse about life in Qatar over some of the kingdom's preciously rare alcohol. Like most of Qatar's residents, who come temporarily to tap into the gas-rich nation's almost unfathomable wealth, they're less effusive about their adopted home. It's a decent enough place to raise children, said the host, a doctor, since Qatar is safe and they teach English in school. Another finds his adopted country of skyscrapers malls, and deserted sidewalks less than inspiring. "If I'm still here in 2022 [for the World Cup], I'm going to kill myself!" he said, laughing.
Meanwhile, out back by the swimming pool, Bora is regaling a captive audience with reminiscences on the glory days. "My players in '94 had character. [Marcelo] Balboa, [Alexi] Lalas. Only [Landon] Donovan and [Tim] Howard - maybe [Michael] Bradley - from today make team back then." Before long, it's time to leave. Bora's headed to a nearby stadium to catch Egypt play Congo in a friendly match. The guard at the V.I.P. entrance astonishingly has never heard of Bora but lets him through anyway. Only a few hundred fans are expected after all.
Earlier in the day, international soccer's ultimate adventurer tried to explain why, after bouncing around Mexico and China and Nigeria and the U.S., he has remained all this time in a country that's been referred to more than once as the most boring on earth. Asked if money was a factor, Bora shook his head and paused a moment. As he began to answer, the usual bombast was missing. "Money is not important," he said. "What's important is that people respect what I did. For this I'm very -- how do you say? -- grateful."

        
Thousands Locked Out of Asian Cup Final
        
The Final: The Asian Game Comes of Age
        
Asian Cup: Redemption for Australia?
        
Asian Cup: Plenty of Good Seats Still Available
        
Asian Cup: Big Game, Small Stadium

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOCCER (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%) 1994 World Cup; Bora Miluntinovic; Qatar; Milutinovic, Bora; Soccer

PERSON: Milutinovic, Bora

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (56%) QATAR (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (57%) Qatar

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



83 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: Mapping the Laggards in the Recovery

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: Comparing the growth of per capita incomes by state over two consecutive five-year periods, from 2001-6 and from 2006-11. 

 BODY:
Personal income for residents of Arizona, Florida and Nevada grew much faster than the national average during the housing boom. Since the peak of the boom in 2006, however, incomes in those states are lagging behind the national average.
The pattern continued in 2011, according to the latest data on personal incomes released last week by the Commerce Department. It forms part of the growing body of evidence, which I described in an article on Tuesday, that the recession may mark an enduring shift in the geography of American growth. Regions where borrowed money fueled booms are now struggling under the weight of those debts.
The map below compares the growth of per capita incomes by state over two consecutive five-year periods, from 2001-6 and from 2006-11.
In the seven states shown in pink - Arizona, California, Florida, Idaho, Nevada, Utah and Wyoming - income growth outpaced the national average during the housing boom, but has lagged behind the average since the crash.
They join the states marked in red, where personal income growth has lagged behind the national average throughout the last decade.
The states marked in light blue, by contrast, outpaced the national average over the last five years after lagging during the earlier period. They join the dark blue states, which have maintained above-average income growth.

        
Are the Good Times Never Coming Back?
        
Revisiting the She-covery
        
What Do You Call This 'Recovery'?
        
Still Playing Catch-Up, Across the Economy
        
Older Women Struggle to Make Ends Meet

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%) Income; recession; recovery; states; Recession and Depression; States (US)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (93%); WYOMING, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



84 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: SoFi Tapping Alumni to Help With Student Loans

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: SoFi aims to tap alumni to help people consolidate their student loans. 

 BODY:
A start-up that had a test-run at Stanford University's business school last year aims to tap alumni as a source of funding for student loans at colleges across the country.
SoFi - short for Social Finance Inc. - is branching out and expects to begin taking applications for consolidation loans in April from recent graduates of five business schools, using funds raised from alumni of those schools (Harvard, M.I.T., Northwestern and the University of Pennsylvania, in addition to Stanford).
SoFi also aims to begin taking applications in June for new student loans for undergraduates and graduate students at about three dozen schools for the 2012-13 academic year.
SoFi is raising funds and expects to originate $150 million in loans this year, although the amount available at each school will vary. Students can register their interest in applying for both types of loans on SoFi's Web site.
SoFi marks a sort of evolution of "peer to peer" lending programs, like GreenNote, that aimed to help students tap their own social networks to help fund their education, although Mike Cagney, SoFi's chairman and chief executive, describes SoFi's model as more of a "group to group" approach.
The idea, Mr. Cagney said in an interview, is that by linking students with alumni, who had an interest in seeing the school's graduates, and their own investments, do well, students would be more successful and less likely to default on their loans. "We believe that the stronger the social fabric, the lower the defaults and the higher the alumni realized returns," SoFi explained in a letter to potential Stanford investors. (It also said, though, that because the company didn't have much of a track record, that theory was as yet unproven).
The loan pools at each college are being coordinated by alumni working with SoFi, rather than through the schools themselves. However, loans to current students will be distributed through school financial aid offices. Alumni aren't involved in choosing which students get loans, but they will be kept informed about student repayment performance, Mr. Cagney said. It's also hoped that they will act as mentors to the students, interacting with them online to advise and encourage them in their education and in their careers.
Consolidation loans of up to $200,000 for recent graduates will be offered at a fixed rate of 5.99 percent, which is below the federal consolidation rate for most borrowers, SoFi says.
New loans from $5,000 to $100,000, for current undergraduates and graduate students, carry a fixed rate of 6.24 percent, which can be reduced to 5.99 percent if students make automated payments. (That rate is lower than the current 6.8 percent rate on unsubsidized federal loans, like Stafford loans. In July, the rate on subsidized Stafford loans is set to riseto 6.8 percent as well.).
Alumni, meanwhile, are making a private investment in a school-specific loan pool with an anticipated annual rate of return of at least 5 percent after fees, SoFi says. That rate of return assumes no loan losses, however, so the investors' actual returns could be lower if some students default. Alumni have the option of investing directly or through a tax-favored option like an I.R.A. The alumni also get a "social return," Mr. Cagney said, in that they are helping to further the reputation of their school and help its graduates succeed.
Mr. Cagney and four fellow graduate students at Stanford's business school created SoFi last summer. The company registered as a lender in California and raised $2 million from 40 Stanford business school alumni who gave an average of $50,000 each, Mr. Cagney said. The money was loaned to 100 graduate business students, who borrowed roughly $20,000 each. The students are graduating this spring so haven't begun repaying their loans. "We have a very strong pool," Mr. Cagney said.
Mr. Cagney said there were some caveats borrowers needed to consider. For instance, he noted, federal student loans offer certain forbearance and loan-forgiveness options that aren't available with SoFi loans.
Mark Kantrowitz, founder of the Web site finaid.org, said in an e-mail that he saw challenges for SoFi. For starters, he questioned whether making student loans at below 6 percent is "economically feasible." He also said it might be difficult for SoFi to raise all the funds it needs from alumni, which meant it might need to open its doors to outside investors at a difficult time for capital markets. And he's skeptical that the social connection with alumni will seriously reduce the risk of defaults, although "cherry picking" by focusing heavily on graduate students, and business students, may help. (SoFi says it is focusing initially on schools with low default rates and high graduation rates).
In a follow up e-mail, a SoFi spokeswoman said 100 percent of the funds for undergraduate loans would come from alumni, while consolidation loans would include funds from alumni and institutional investors, like banks. The goal is to have at least 50 alumni contributing to each school's loan pool.
SoFi put Bucks in touch with Ben Kessler, an M.B.A. student at Stanford who borrowed through SoFi. He said he was attracted by the low interest rate for a fixed-rate loan; he planned to go into business for himself after graduation, he said, and liked the idea of having a predictable monthly payment.
What do you think of SoFi's approach, as either a borrower or an investor?

        
Most Students Spared Big Cuts in Debt Bill
        
How to Shop for a Student Loan (if You Must)
        
Attending Community College to Save Money
        
How a Gift Card Can Cut Your Tuition Bill
        
Community College vs. Student Loan Debt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (51%) Paying for College; Student Loans; Stanford University; California

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%) Stanford University

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%) California

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



85 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: The True Cost of Breast-feeding - This Milk Isn't Free

BYLINE: KJ DELL'ANTONIA


HIGHLIGHT: New research shows that women who breast-feed for six months or more earn significantly less over their child's first five years of life than those who don't. 

 BODY:
One of the most powerful myths surrounding breast milk is that it's not only the "best" food for baby, but that it's free. Nursing mothers have long known that "free" in this context requires that we place zero value on our own sleep, time and even dignity. (Remember the study showing that breast-feeding women are viewed as less competent?)
Now researchers have zeroed in on an economic cost of following the pediatrician's advice: women who breast-feed for six months or more suffer more severe and more prolonged earnings losses than mothers who breastfeed for a shorter amount of time, or not at all," writes Tom Jacobs for Miller-McCune.
The researchers Phyllis Rippeyoung of Acadia University and Mary Noonan of the University of Iowa studied data from 1,313 American women who gave birth between 1980 and 1993, and found that "after childbirth, short-duration breast-feeders (those who stopped before the baby was 6 months old) and formula-feeders experienced similar earnings penalties."
"By contrast, women who breast-fed for long durations experienced a much steeper decline in earned income over the first five years of their children's lives." Those longer-term nursing mothers spent more time out of the work force, or worked fewer hours, than their formula-feeding counterparts. The result of that shift in time spent on work or career stretched well beyond the months (or years) spent with a baby at the breast.
This won't surprise most women. It comes, as a parent commented on similar research showing that the mothers of children with autism earn less over their lifetime, from the annals of "duh:" we knew that.
Few workplaces make pumping milk (or nursing the actual baby) simple to fit into the corporate, manufacturing or service routine. As Lynn Messina wrote hereearlier this year, even at a magazine "by women, for women, about female empowerment," pumping at work can be fraught with complications.
It may, of course, be that many of the nursing mothers made a conscious choice to stop working, or cut back on their hours, after the birth of a baby. But as the study authors write, it's "difficult to tease out" how much of that is pure choice, and how much of that choice is influenced by other factors - including the difficulties involved in being a breast-feeding mother in the workplace.
It's also important to remember that not every woman has that "choice" available. A single mother, considering the economic costs of nursing, has to begin weighing the benefits of breast-feeding differently. It's tough to make all that "free" milk for your baby if you can't afford to feed, clothe and shelter yourself. And as anxious as our society can be to punish single mothers, this shouldn't be (yet another) area in which we elect to punish their children for being born as well.
If we as a society truly place a high value on nursing - if the American Academy of Pediatrics' recommendation that mothers breast-feed for 12 months or more (and breast-feed exclusively for six months or more) is meant for all women, not just those with the resources to withstand economic loss - then we need to support breast-feeding by putting in place laws, policies, programs and social structures that make it easier, rather than attempt to gloss over its hidden costs. Breast milk isn't free. But it's within our power to make it affordable for all.

        
Study Urges Revision of Six-Month Breast-Feeding Recommendations
        
The Link Between Income Inequality and Teen Pregnancy
        
Learning to Breast-Feed From an Avatar
        
Getting Over Pumping at Work
        
Less Outdoor Playtime for Preschool Girls

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BREASTFEEDING (95%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); BABY FOODS (90%); PARENTING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FAMILY (90%); WOMEN (90%); INFANT FORMULA (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (77%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); LABOR FORCE (71%); WRITERS (69%); AUTISM (50%) breast feeding; breast milk; Breastfeeding; Economics; nursing; public policy; Research; working mothers; Children and Childhood; Families and Family Life; Parenting; Pregnancy and Childbirth; Women and Girls

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012



86 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Environmental Rules: Job Killers or Job Creators?

BYLINE: JOHN M. BRODER


HIGHLIGHT: Despite the limitations of current tools, federal agencies should do their best to calculate job impacts when drafting environmental rules, the Institute for Policy Integrity says in a new report. 

 BODY:
 It's a rare day that you pick up a newspaper without encountering a reference to "job-killing regulations" from a pro-business Republican complaining about the burden of a new rule from the Environmental Protection Agency or other government office. Sometimes large and scary job loss numbers are attached to the assertion and attributed to a study, most often financed by the affected industry.
 For example, when the E.P.A. issued a final rule in December limiting emissions of mercury and other airborne toxins from power plant emissions, opponents from the coal and utility industries said the regulation would cost 1.4 million jobs. Supporters of the rule, conversely, said the rule would create 1.4 million jobs in environmental restoration, retrofitting of plants and conversion to renewable electricity sources.
 The E.P.A. and the White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, which reviews all proposed federal regulations, have never used job figures as part of the calculus of the costs and benefits of rule-making, largely because there is no accepted methodology for assessing them. 
 But on Tuesday, the Institute for Policy Integrity at New York University's School of Law said in a new report that despite the limitations of current methods of measuring job gains and losses, they should be considered when drawing up future environmental rules.

 Michael A. Livermore, the institute's director and the principal author of the study, noted that the the oratory surrounding job impacts has heated up in recent years -- for example, in the debates over new Clean Air Act rules and the Keystone XL oil pipeline. (His report noted that the term "job-killing regulations" had appeared in a sampling of American newspapers four times in 2007 and 706 times in 2011.)
The polarization of the discussion has led to inflated claims on both sides, he said.
 "It may seem optimistic to imagine that politicians are going to drop the rhetoric about jobs," Mr. Livermore said in a conference call, "but our hope is to improve the broader discourse about environmental rule-making." He noted that rules to limit exposure to harmful emissions are imposed to save lives and improve health, not to create jobs. 
The United States should decide whether the Keystone XL pipeline is in the national interest primarily because of energy security and the broad economic impact, he said, not because it would create a few thousand temporary construction jobs.
 But he said that the E.P.A. and other agencies should at least try to estimate job impacts, using the best available tools to estimate job losses and gains from proposed regulations while acknowledging the tools' limitations. 
 "The E.P.A. says that's very hard and not exact," Mr. Livermore said, "but they're in charge of many things that are hard, and they should do their best and put uncertainty parameters around it."
"It may be much harder for the agency to assess economy-wide impact of big rules like the mercury standard, but the E.P.A. does lots of smaller rules, and in those cases it can be a lot easier to suss out the impact on hirings or layoffs."

        
Study Warns of Economic Damage in a Keystone Pipeline Spill
        
State Department Readies an R.S.V.P.
        
Farm Jobs Lost? Blame Environmentalists! (Or Not.)
        
E.P.A. Delays Rule on Power Plant Emissions
        
Coal, Jobs and America's Energy Future

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (86%); DISMISSALS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (75%); POWER PLANTS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); WRITERS (73%); LAND RECLAMATION (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (72%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (70%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (66%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) environmental rules; Institute for Policy Integrity; Jobs; regulation; Clean Air Act; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Keystone Pipeline System; Labor and Jobs; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; United States Economy; New York University; Breaking News; Business; Emissions Reduction; Fossil Fuels; Health and Safety; Politics and Policy; Toxic Pollution

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (58%) New York University

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



87 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Parsing the Wisconsin Exit Polls

BYLINE: ALLISON KOPICKI and DALIA SUSSMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights so far from the exit polls of Wisconsin Republicans: fewer evangelicals, economic pessimism. 

 BODY:
The Times's polling unit is combing through the exit polls of voters leaving Wisconsin voting locations for insights. This post will be updated as we crunch numbers throughout the night.
Romney Is Expected to Be Nominee
As the Republican race marches on, the broad majority of Wisconsin primary voters expect Mr. Romney to be the eventual Republican nominee, regardless of which candidate they voted for on Tuesday.
Mr. Romney is well short of the 1,144 delegates he needs to clinch the nomination, but he leads Mr. Santorum by more than two to one, according to the Associated Press count.
More than 8 in 10 voters in Tuesday's primary say they think Mr. Romney will be the party's standard-bearer, according to preliminary exit polls. While nearly all of Mr. Romney's supporters say so, as do about two-thirds of Mr. Santorum's voters. About 3 in 10 Santorum supporters expect their candidate to win.
And most voters on Tuesday are just fine with Mr. Romney at the top of the party's ticket.
About two-thirds say they would be satisfied if Mr. Romney won the nomination. But here Mr. Santorum's supporters are less enthused.
About 4 in 10 of them say they would be satisfied with Mr. Romney, while nearly 6 in 10 would be dissatisfied. -Dalia Sussman
Fewer Evangelicals and Conservative Voters
Mr. Romney finds himself on friendlier demographic terrain in Wisconsin than in the Southern states that have voted so far, with fewer of the types of voters he has struggled to capture, including evangelical Christians and those who are very conservative.
About one-third of Wisconsin primary voters described themselves as evangelical Christians in preliminary exit poll results.
In each contest to date where evangelicals have constituted a minority of the electorate, Mr. Romney has won. Where they've made up the majority, he has lost. In the contests so far, they've accounted for up as much as 83 percent of voters in Mississippi, and as few as 16 percent of voters in Massachusetts.
About 3 in 10 voters in preliminary exit poll results said they considered themselves very conservative, far fewer than in several states Mr. Romney lost, including Louisiana (where 49 percent were very conservative), Oklahoma (47 percent), Iowa (47 percent), Mississippi (42 percent) and Tennessee (41 percent).
Yet Mr. Romney has not done poorly with these voters in every state. He won them or essentially split them with Mr. Santorum in some states, including New Hampshire, Nevada, Arizona, Massachusetts and Vermont.
Exit poll results also indicate an increase since 2008 in the number of independents and Democrats voting in Tuesday's open Republican primary.
In preliminary results, about 3 in 10 voters say they're independents while just more than one in 10 are Democrats. Four years ago, amid a competitive Democratic nominating race, 23 percent of Republican primary voters were independents, and 5 percent were Democrats. -Dalia Sussman

Wisconsin Voters Are Down on Economy
Wisconsin's Republican primary voters have a dour view of the national economy.
The economy was the most important issue on voters' minds as they went to the polls in Wisconsin on Tuesday, as has been the case in all states with exit polls thus far. And despite a somewhat healthy state economy, a majority of Republican primary voters in Wisconsin say the national economy is stagnating or getting worse.
Nearly 4 in 10 Republican primary voters said the economy was getting worse, while nearly 3 in 10 said it was staying the same, according to early exit poll results. Fewer than 3 in 10 said they thought it was starting to recover. And nearly 6 in 10 voters said the economy mattered most in deciding how to vote Tuesday.
Wisconsin has lower unemployment and poverty rates than the national average, but also has a worrisome rate of foreclosures and high gas prices.
In February 2012, Wisconsin's unemployment was at 6.9 percent, well below the national unemployment rate of 8.3 percent, but higher than the 5.9 percent when Mr. Obama was elected in November 2008.
The state has the 10th highest foreclosure rate in the country, with one in every 596 housing units in foreclosure in February, according to RealtyTrac, a company that tracks foreclosure listings.
As of Tuesday, an average price for a gallon of regular gasoline is $3.98, compared to $3.92, the national average, and 12th highest in the country (in 11 states, a gallon of gas costs more than $4 per gallon). A month ago, the average cost was $3.67, an 8 percent increase, but the price has risen about 18 percent from the start of 2012. -Allison Kopicki

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); RELIGION (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%) The Caucus

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (95%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



88 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Income Inequality and Teenage Pregnancy

BYLINE: MOTOKO RICH


HIGHLIGHT: Teenage childbearing is "a symptom, not a cause" of poverty and economic immobility, one researcher says. 

 BODY:
 12:45 p.m. | Updated 
Researchers have long tried to untangle the complicated mix of economics, culture, education and contraception (or lack thereof) that leads to teenage pregnancy.
 Despite a decline in births to American teenage mothers over the past two decades, the United States stands out among developed nations in that its teenagers are much more likely to give birth than their peers in Canada, Germany, Norway, Russia (a country that is still advancing on the spectrum of development) or Switzerland. 
A new study by Melissa S. Kearney, an economist at the University of Maryland, and Phillip B. Levine, an economist at Wellesley College, builds on their previous research looking at the link between income inequality and rates of teenage childbirth.
It turns out the connection is quite striking.
In general, teenage childbirth is more common among poor girls. But poor girls who live in places with a high level of inequality - meaning that the ratio of income at the median of the income distribution to the income at the 10th percentile of the income distribution is higher than in other places - are even more likely to bear children as teenagers.

The new paper looks at inequality across states and finds a very similar correlation between the rate of teenage births and income inequality. For example, a teenage girl in Mississippi is four times more likely to give birth than a teenage girl in New Hampshire. The researchers conclude that teenagers in the highest-inequality states are roughly five percentage points more likely to give birth as teenagers than teenagers in the lowest-inequality states.
Inequality, the authors suggest, makes the poorest citizens believe that they have little chance of economic mobility. They are giving birth "at a young age instead of investing in their own economic progress because they feel they have little chance of advancement," the authors write.
In fact, the authors point out that other research has shown that poor girls who have babies when they are teenagers do not suffer much worse economic outcomes in the long term than their peers who wait to have children. Teenage childbearing is "a symptom, not a cause" of poverty and economic immobility, Mr. Levine said in an interview.
Policy prescriptions, he said, should focus more on improving economic opportunities than merely persuading more teenagers to use birth control. "People like to focus on the thing that happens right before you have the baby, like sex education, birth control, abstinence," Mr. Levine said. "An important point from our research is that that's not going to solve the problem. Really what you need to do is improve their life chances in a much broader sense, which will then lead to lower rates of teen childbearing and better economic outcomes subsequently."
The authors do acknowledge that a change in inequality does not explain the drop in teenage childbirth in the United States over the last two decades. That, they say, is a topic for more study.

        
New York Metro Area Has Highest Inequality in Country
        
Mapping the Laggards in the Recovery
        
Britain's Experience in Raising the Top Tax Rate
        
The Political Geography of Gasoline Prices
        
Rising Tide of Jobs Lifts Most States, Not All

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (96%); ADOLESCENTS (95%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (91%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); SEX EDUCATION (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); WRITERS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); TRENDS (72%); INTERVIEWS (65%) Income Inequality; pregnancy; states; teenagers; Economic Conditions and Trends; Pregnancy and Childbirth; United States

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (91%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2012



89 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The X-Factor Edition

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: BMW is scheduled to show its X1 compact crossover at the New York auto show, where press previews begin Wednesday. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 With a starting price of $31,545, BMW will begin sales of its X1 compact crossover this fall. Produced at the automaker's plant in Leipzig, Germany, the X1 will be offered initially with BMW's 2-liter turbocharged 4-cylinder engine, producing 240 horsepower, or the 3-liter in-line 6, generating 300 horsepower. In its most highly optioned form, the X1 xDrive35i will be priced from $39,345. The crossover will make its public debut this week at the New York auto show. (BMW, via Car and Driver)
 According to a filing received by the Securities and Exchange Commission, Fisker Automotive had secured $392 million in a financing round. The start-up ultimately hopes to raise $500 million in its effort to position itself for growth. In February, the company laid off more than 60 workers and announced that a disbursal from an Energy Department loan was frozen. Fisker at the time said it was raising capital from outside sources. Its second production model, codenamed Project Nina, is scheduled to be introduced Tuesday night, on the eve of the New York auto show. (The Wall Street Journal)
 As an April Fools' joke, Nascar produced a video in which it announced a technology partnership with Google to develop autonomous vehicles for use in Sprint Cup, the sanctioning body's premier racing series. To illustrate the technology's suitability to oval-track racing, Nascar enlisted the Google co-founder Sergey Brin to perform burnouts at the Google campus with his hands off the wheel. The Sprint Cup drivers Brad Keselowski and Jeff Gordon said they supported the initiative, but Clint Bowyer dissented, saying the driver was "the quarterback." (Nascar)
 Spokesmen for General Motors confirmed last week that the automaker would cease contributions to the Heartland Institute, a free-market group that has rejected the notion of global warming. "G.M.'s operating its business as if climate change is real," Greg Martin, a spokesman for G.M., told The Los Angeles Times. In a media statement, Joseph Bast, the institute president, lamented the loss of support from the General Motors Foundation, "particularly since it was prompted by false claims contained in a fake memo circulated by disgraced climate scientist." (The Los Angeles Times)
 The BMW Guggenheim Lab, which was canceled at its original location in the Kreuzberg district of Berlin after organizers received threats from groups opposed to the project, was relocated to the neighborhood of Prenzlauer Berg. The lab, which was conceived as a physical forum to discuss design and sustainability issues affecting cities, previously was installed on New York's Lower East Side. (BMW Guggenheim Lab)
 Ford announced Monday that an engine stop-start function would be available as a $295 option on 2013 Fusion sedans equipped with the 1.6-liter EcoBoost 4-cylinder engine. The system shuts down the engine when the brake pedal is fully depressed. The engine restarts when pedal pressure is released. Ford estimates that the feature would improve fuel economy in urban driving conditions by up to 10 percent. (Ford)

        
Honda Recalls 554,000 CR-Vs and Pilots for Headlight Failure
        
Wheelies: The Crucible Edition
        
Amid Threats, BMW Guggenheim Lab Withdraws Plan for Installation in Berlin Neighborhood
        
Monday Motorsports: Denny Hamlin Races to Redemption at Phoenix
        
Wheelies: The Eastbound Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); NASCAR RACING (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); EQUITY FINANCING (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); SECURITIES LAW (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (70%); CLIMATOLOGY (66%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (61%); GLOBAL WARMING (61%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (60%) autonomous driving; bmw; climate change; Fisker Automotive; Ford Fusion; General Motors; Google; Guggenheim; Nascar; X1; Automobiles; New York International Auto Show; Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; Ford Motor Company; Google Inc; Heartland Institute; National Assn of Stock Car Auto Racing; Ford Motor Company|F|NYSE; General Motors|GM|NYSE; Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ; advertising; Auto Shows; Environment; Industry News; Motorsports; New Cars

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%); GOOGLE INC (83%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (64%); FISKER AUTOMOTIVE INC (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%) Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; Fisker Automotive; Ford Motor Company; General Motors; Google Inc; Heartland Institute; National Assn of Stock Car Auto Racing

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); GM (NYSE) (53%) Ford Motor Company; F; NYSE; Ford Motor Company; F; NYSE; General Motors; GM; NYSE; Ford Motor Company; F; NYSE; General Motors; GM; NYSE; Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (64%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (64%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: JEFF GORDON (50%); SERGEY BRIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



90 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Dewey & LeBoeuf Loses Four More Lawyers

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Dewey has now lost 40 of its 300 partners since January, including nearly 20 partners from its highly regarded insurance practice. 

 BODY:
Four more lawyers have left Dewey & LeBoeuf, the latest departures at the embattled New York law firm. 
The lawyers will join DLA Piper, the nation's largest law firm, according to a statement from DLA on Tuesday.
John Altorelli, a Dewey partner who leads a group of mergers and acquisitions lawyers, will become co-chairman of the DLA Piper's United States finance practice and a member of the executive committee. 
Alexander Fraser, a partner at Dewey, is also moving over to DLA as a partner. In addition, Gerald Francese and Patrick Costello, who were both of counsel at Dewey, will become partners at DLA. 
"DLA Piper's strong global platform and commitment to building the leading corporate and finance practice in New York, the U.S. and the world made this a natural destination for us," Mr. Altorelli said in a statement. 
Mr. Altorelli has handled several large assignments in recent years, including serving as debtor's counsel for the Capmark Financial Group, the former commercial mortgage arm of GMAC.
Angelo Kakolyris, a spokesman for Dewey, declined to comment. 
Dewey has now lost 40 of its 300 partners since January, including nearly 20 partners from its highly regarded insurance practice. Last week, the firm overhauled its management. Steven Davis, the firm's chairman, was stripped of his title. He now joins four other partners in an office of the chairman.
The firm ran into problems after it missed financial targets last year and was forced to slash the compensation of many of its partners. 
In recent years, Dewey has aggressively recruited top-producing lawyers away from other firms by guaranteeing them outsized salaries. DLA, which is acquiring the four lawyers from Dewey, has also been among the firms that has poached talent from competitors with the promise of big guarantees. 
The text of the news release from DLA:
DLA Piper Continues Expansion of Corporate and Finance Practice with Addition of Prominent Transactional Group in New York
NEW YORK (April 3, 2012) - DLA Piper announced today that John Altorelli, Alexander Fraser, Patrick Costello and Gerald Francese have joined the firm's Corporate and Finance practice as partners in New York.
The group, which joins DLA Piper from Dewey & LeBoeuf, focuses its practice on corporate transactions, including finance, private equity and mergers and acquisitions, representing public and private companies, funds and institutions in a wide range of sectors around the world. Altorelli will also serve as co-chair of the firm's US Finance practice and as a member of the Executive Committee. 
"It's my pleasure to welcome John and his team to the firm," said Roger Meltzer, global chair of DLA Piper's Corporate and Finance practice. "Their collective experience and market relationships will enhance our ability to serve the world's industry leaders in their transactions. They will also create valuable synergies with our banking, finance, insurance, private equity and fund formation practices as we work with clients in the most important financial centers and emerging markets."
"DLA Piper's strong global platform and commitment to building the leading corporate and finance practice in New York, the US and the world made this a natural destination for us," said Altorelli. "We look forward to capitalizing on the opportunities this dynamic and growing group presents to our practice and our clients."
Altorelli, Fraser, Costello and Francese are the latest additions to DLA Piper's rapidly growing Corporate practice, which in 2012 has also added: Richard Reilly, Edward Johnsen and Daniel Eisner in New York; Wesley Nissen in Chicago; Rich Scudellari, Armando Castro and Matt Oshinsky in Silicon Valley; and Kathleen Smith Ruhland in Minneapolis.
About the Lawyers:
John Altorelli advises clients in connection with mergers and acquisitions, private equity, structured finance and corporate finance transactions. He represents private equity funds, hedge funds, venture capital funds, publicly traded companies, investment banks, financial institutions, entrepreneurs, emerging growth and privately held companies in a variety of industries, including financial services, real estate, insurance, apparel, biosciences, software, Internet, media, energy and communications. He received his J.D from Cornell Law School and his B.S. from Southern Connecticut State University. 
Alexander Fraser has a broad domestic and international transactional practice focused on mergers, acquisitions and securities offerings. His clients include public and private corporations, financial institutions and private equity sponsors. His international experience includes advising on cross-border acquisitions as counsel to a multinational industrial corporation, and being resident in Eastern Europe for three years with an international law firm. Fraser received his J.D. from New York University School of Law and his B.A. from Princeton University.
Patrick Costello represents private equity funds, venture capital funds, publicly traded companies, financial institutions, entrepreneurs, emerging growth companies and privately held companies in a variety of industries, including financial services, real estate, insurance, apparel, life sciences, software, Internet, media, music, energy and communications. He also has extensive experience in a wide range of intellectual property transactional matters. He received his J.D. from George Washington University Law School and his B.A. in Economics and International Studies from Northwestern University.
Gerald Francese focuses his practice on private equity, mergers and acquisitions, corporate finance, securities law and investment adviser regulation. He has extensive expertise representing financial services institutions, underwriters, public and private companies and investors in complex transactions and risk management. He also served as in-house counsel and compliance and risk management executive to Bank of America. Francese received his J.D. from the University of Connecticut School of Law and his B.A. from Roger Williams University. 
About DLA Piper (www.dlapiper.com)
DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in 31 countries and 77 offices throughout the US, UK, Continental Europe, Middle East, Asia and Australia. In certain jurisdictions, this information may be considered attorney advertising. 

        
American Lawyer to Revise Dewey's Financials
        
More Partners Leave Dewey & LeBoeuf

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); MERGERS (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); PRESS RELEASES (76%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); PRIVATE EQUITY (64%) Alexander Fraser; Dewey & LeBoeuf; DLA Piper; Gerald Francese; John Altorelli; law firms; Patrick Costello; Legal Profession; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (92%); DLA PIPER LLP (92%); CAPMARK FINANCIAL GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Dewey & LeBoeuf; DLA Piper

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (55%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (55%)

PERSON: STEVEN A DAVIS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



91 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: In Poll, Jewish Voters Overwhelmingly Support Obama

BYLINE: LAURIE GOODSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: The results cast doubt on the claim that President Obama has alienated a significant swath of Jewish voters because of his rocky relationship with Israel's prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu. 

 BODY:
A poll of American Jewish voters shows that they overwhelmingly support Barack Obama for president, just as they did four years ago, and that Israel and Iran rank low on their list of priority issues in the presidential election.
The results cast doubt on the claim that Mr. Obama has alienated a significant swath of Jewish voters because of his rocky relationship with Israel's prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu. 
"We show no slippage in Jewish support for President Obama," said Robert P. Jones, chief executive of the Public Religion Research Institute, an independent research group based in Washington D.C., which conducted the poll of 1,004 Jewish adults from Feb. 23 to March 5. The margin of error is plus or minus five percentage points.
Support for Mr. Obama is still higher among Jews than among the general electorate, with 62 percent of Jewish voters saying they would like to see him elected, and 30 percent saying they preferred the Republican candidate. (That is almost identical to a Gallup poll of American Jewish registered voters taken in June 2008.) 
Of the 30 percent of those polled who said they preferred a Republican candidate, 58 percent said they supported Mitt Romney, 15 percent supported Rick Santorum, 13 percent supported Newt Gingrich and 12 percent supported Ron Paul.
Asked to rank which issues were most important to their vote for president, about half of American Jews cited the economy, and 15 percent cited the growing gap between the rich and the poor. Concern about Israel or Iran ranked very low, even when respondents were asked for the second most important issue that would determine their vote for president. 
On relations between the United States and Israel, 54 percent of those polled said relations were about the same as in the past, while 37 percent said they were worse, and only 7 percent said they were better. Only 20 percent said they liked the way that Mr. Obama had handled the Arab-Israeli conflict and that they agreed with his policies, while 15 percent said they agreed with the president's policies, but didn't like the way he was carrying them out. Twenty-eight percent said they disagreed with his policies, and 36 percent said they were not sure
"We see some tensions here," Mr. Jones said, "but ultimately when it comes down to who they're going to choose as president, it's not what's driving the vote."

        
In Poll, Santorum Is Ahead of Romney in Pennsylvania
        
Latinos Support Obama, Despite Deportation Policies
        
Obama Ad Buy Totals $1.4 Million in Six States
        
Obama Campaign's New Ad Attacks Romney and the Oil Industry
        
Romney Predicts a Victory in Wisconsin Primary

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (96%); US PRESIDENTS (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (73%); RELIGION (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); DEPORTATION (50%) jewish voters; obama; poll; Presidential Election of 2012; Netanyahu, Benjamin; Obama, Barack; Republican Party; Iran; Israel; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); RON PAUL (57%) Netanyahu, Benjamin; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%) Iran; Israel

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



92 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Burger King to Return to Public Markets

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN and MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Just 18 months after being taken private in a leveraged buyout, Burger King Worldwide Holdings, plans to list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 BODY:
9:08 p.m. | Updated 
Burger King is going public. Again.
Just 18 months after being taken private in a leveraged buyout, Burger King Worldwide Holdings, one of the world's largest fast-food chains, plans to list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange through a merger with Justice Holdings, an investment company based in London.
Under the terms of the deal, 3G Capital, the little-known buyout shop that bought Burger King in 2010, will receive about $1.4 billion in cash and continue to own about 71 percent of the company. Justice Holdings will own the rest.
The transaction, which was announced late Tuesday, was unexpected, as private equity firms generally prefer to fix businesses outside of the public glare. 3G was in the midst of trying to turn around the struggling chain in the United States, while at the same time aggressively expanding internationally.
Burger King's complex deal would be the second time in less than a decade that the restaurant chain has been acquired by a private equity firm and then taken public.
In 2002, a group of buyout shops - TPG, Bain Capital and Goldman Sachs's private equity unit - bought the company for $1.58 billion. The owners then took Burger King public again in 2006.
3G Capital's acquisition of Burger King for about $3.3 billion in 2010 was also a surprise. The firm is backed by Brazilian investors, including the billionaire Jorge Paulo Lemann, who was best known for his major role in the $52 billion merger of the Brazilian-Belgian beer company InBev with Anheuser-Busch.
Justice Holdings is an investment vehicle controlled by the financiers Martin Franklin and Nicolas Berggruen. William A. Ackman, the hedge fund manager, is also an investor and his fund, Pershing Square Capital Management, is expected to own 10 percent of Burger King.
In corporate finance circles, Justice Holdings is known as a Spac, or a special purpose acquisition company, that raises money in the public market to buy companies within a certain time frame, typically two years. They provide private companies with a quicker way to list their shares and avoid some of the details associated with the initial public offering process.
Justice Holdings is one of the most experienced investors in Spacs. Mr. Franklin and Mr. Berggruen have created several such financial vehicles over the years, drawing upon shareholder faith that the money will be used to buy worthwhile targets.
The two men have different backgrounds. Mr. Franklin developed a reputation as a shrewd deal maker at Jarden, which he built into a sprawling group of consumer brands that now includes Rawlings baseball gloves and Coleman camping gear.
Mr. Berggruen, the son of a German art collector, built his wealth by investing in real estate, hedge funds and private equity - and became known as the "homeless billionaire" because of his penchant for living in luxury hotels.
The two created several prominent Spac vehicles with lofty names like Justice and Liberty. One of them, Freedom Acquisition Holdings, merged with GLG Partners in 2007, creating one of the few hedge funds publicly traded in the United States.
The two, along with Mr. Ackman, will join 3G in trying to turn around Burger King. The fast-food company was struggling before 3G took it private, buffeted by the global recession and rising commodity costs.
"We believe it is the right time for Burger King to be publicly traded in the U.S. again," Daniel Schwartz, its chief financial officer, said in a statement. "With this transaction, we are positioning the Burger King brand for long-term growth both domestically and internationally."
Last month, Burger King was knocked off its perch as the county's second-largest hamburger chain by Wendy's, according to a food industry research group. Burger King has come under criticism by analysts for failing to diversify its offerings.
On Monday, the company announced an overhaul of its menu. It introduced items like mango-flavored real fruit smoothies and honey-mustard crispy chicken snack wraps. Burger King also started a new advertising campaign, dropping its much criticized oversize "King" mascot in favor of celebrities including Sofia Vergara and Salma Hayek.
On Monday, the company announced an overhaul of its menu. It introduced items like tropical mango-flavored real fruit smoothies and honey-mustard crispy chicken snack wraps. Burger King also started a new advertising campaign, dropping its much criticized oversize "King" mascot in favor of celebrities including Sofia Vergara and Salma Hayek.
3G was advised by the law firm Kirkland & Ellis. Justice was advised by Tegris Advisors and the law firms Greenberg Traurig and Sullivan & Cromwell, while its board received a fairness opinion from Barclays. 

        
In Pearl Deal, a New Role for Spacs?
        
America's Export to Canada: Shareholder Activism

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (92%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (91%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (91%); PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); GOING PRIVATE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); MERGERS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (86%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); CELEBRITIES (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (64%); BEER & ALE (64%); BREWERIES (64%); SPORTS EQUIPMENT MFG (62%) 3G Capital; Burger King; Freedom Acquisition Holdings; GLG Partners; Jorge Paulo Lemann; Justice Holdings; Martin Franklin; Nicolas Berggruen; Pershing Square Capital Management; Special Purpose Acquisition Companies; William A. Ackman; Fast Food Industry; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Burger King Corp; Food & Beverage; I.P.O./Offerings

COMPANY: BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (97%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); 3G CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (57%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (56%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (54%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Burger King Corp; Pershing Square Capital Management

TICKER: BKW (NYSE) (97%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BUD (NYSE) (53%); ABI (BRU) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (97%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (97%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (54%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (54%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (53%)

PERSON: NICOLAS BERGGRUEN (89%); MARTIN E FRANKLIN (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



93 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 5501 words

HEADLINE: Updates From Wisconsin, Maryland and D.C. Primaries

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Times is covering Tuesday's primaries in Wisconsin, Maryland and Washington, D.C. and providing live updates, results and analysis. 

 BODY:
The Times is covering Tuesday's primaries and providing live updates and analysis. Follow along on the live dashboard and on Twitter (@thecaucus), get real-time results and dig deeper into the numbers with FiveThirtyEight.
11:32 P.M. | That's a Wrap
Mitt Romney swept the Wisconsin, Maryland and Washington, D.C., primaries, the candidates have made their statements and are now on their way home. We are, too. Check out NYTimes.com and The Caucus for continuing coverage. Thanks for following along.
And don't forget to download the Election 2012 app, now available on Android, which smartly combines our coverage with the best from political news sites, Twitter and blogs from around the Web.
- 
11:29 P.M. | In Victory, Romney Looks Beyond Primary to Obama
MILWAUKEE - If Mr. Romney still has any Republican rivals standing in his path to his party's nomination, he certainly didn't show it in his victory speech on Tuesday night, when he addressed a crowd here after sweeping wins in the primaries in Maryland, Wisconsin and Washington, D.C.
Mr. Romney had ignored his chief rival, Mr. Santorum, since arriving in Wisconsin on Friday, and did not mention his name once - not even as a perfunctory reference in his opening remarks here. Instead, his focused on Mr. Obama, delivering a version of a speech that he introduced in Appleton, Wis., last week.
"This campaign is going to deal with many complicated issues, but there's a basic choice we're going to face," Mr. Romney said, addressing a crowd of no more than 200 at the Grain Exchange, an ornate building in downtown Milwaukee. "The president has pledged to transform America, and he spent the last four years laying the groundwork for a government centered society. I will spend the next four years rebuilding the foundation of an opportunity society led by free people and free enterprise."
Mr. Romney, who is usually accompanied on stage by his wife, Ann, as well as at least one of his five sons, was instead introduced by Mr. Ryan, with whom he has spent the past few days campaigning. 
"Great leader, wonderful speaker, but he's not going to take Ann's place," Mr. Romney joked, referring to Mr. Ryan.
Mr. Romney sought to portray the election in November as a choice between two very different paths for the country.
"In Barack Obama's government-centered society, government spending always increases," he said. "Because, why not?" 
And Mr. Romney also tried to paint the president as "out of touch."
"It's enough to make you think that years of flying around on Air Force One, surrounded by an adoring staff of true believers telling you that you're great and you're doing a good job, it's enough to make you think that you might become a little out of touch with that, and that's what's happened," he said. 
While Mr. Romney plans to compete hard in Pennsylvania, hoping to deliver a knockout blow to Mr. Santorum there, on Tuesday, he was focused on the general election.
"Tonight, I'm asking the good people of Pennsylvania, New York, Rhode Island, Delaware and Connecticut to join me," he said. "Join me in the next step toward that destination of November 6th, when across America we can give a sigh of relief and know that the promise of America has been kept."
- 
10:26 P.M. | Santorum Takes Defiant Stance in Pennsylvania Speech
MARS, Pa. - Mr. Santorum tried to turn the page on a bad night of defeats on Tuesday, delivering a 14-minute speech here that opened the three-week campaign for Pennsylvania.
In a speech that was part history lesson, part defiant stance against his party's establishment, he drew heavily on Pennsylvania imagery - the Liberty Bell, the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, as well as steel and coal.
"Pennsylvania and half the other people in this country have yet to be heard, and we're going to go out and campaign across this country to make sure those voices are heard," he said.
But it was not a particularly galvanizing speech, and there seemed to be little energy in the hotel ballroom at the Four Points Sheraton where he spoke, where about 200 people barely filled a quarter of the room.
He made no direct references to Mr. Romney, who beat him in all three contests that were held Tuesday, in Wisconsin, Maryland and Washington, D.C. But he made it clear through indirect references that he thought Mr. Romney with his moderate positions would be a loser in the fall.
He spoke bitterly of a "party establishment and aristocracy" that time and again have shoved candidates "down our throats."
Invoking Ronald Reagan, he said there had been "one person who understood that we don't win by moving to the middle, we win by getting people in the middle to move to us." 
He also made an appeal as a native son, saying repeatedly, "you know who I am." He said he had a "clear positive vision" and that his convictions were "forged in steel, not in an Etch A Sketch."
He repeated a story he often tells, about the Republicans' rejecting Reagan in 1976 and nominating Gerald Ford, who lost to Jimmy Carter.
"Let's not make the mistake of 1976 again," Mr. Santorum said. Then, in one of the strangest battle cries of a recent presidential campaign, he added: "Let's bypass that era and move straight to 1980."
It was not quite clear that the speech was over, but it was.
- 
10:16 P.M. | Paul Ryan Misfires on Obama Attack
Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin may not have such a good memory.
As he introduced Mr. Romney in Milwaukee on Tuesday night for his victory rally, Mr. Ryan, whose budget plan received some harsh criticism from Mr. Obama on Tuesday, had a few harsh words of his own for the president.
"We found out today that he is going to try to divide us in order to distract us,'' Mr. Ryan told the crowd. "You know, I seem to remember him saying that he was going to be a uniter, not a divider. Frankly, I think this is one of the worst of his broken promises."
It is true that Mr. Obama did run on a pledge to try to rise above partisan divisions. But it was another president who ran on the slogan that he was "a uniter, not a divider" - George W. Bush.
- 
9:49 P.M. | Romney Wins Wisconsin Primary
Mr. Romney won the Wisconsin Republican presidential primary on Tuesday, according to exit poll results and early returns, dealing a significant setback to Mr. Santorum, who had campaigned hard for a victory there to convince Republicans that he still had a clear path to the nomination.
Mr. Romney's victory in Wisconsin, an important Midwestern industrial state that many Republicans hope to put in play in the general election in November, showed that he could win the support of a number of groups that are crucial for Republican candidates. Mr. Romney ran strongly among older voters and higher-income voters, similar to previous contests. But he also had a double-digit edge over Mr. Santorum among the 3 in 10 voters who said they strongly supported the Tea Party movement, a group he has failed to win over in most other states. 
The top issue to voters was what it has been to voters in every other state - the economy - and these voters supported Mr. Romney over Mr. Santorum by double digits.
Mr. Romney was also lifted by the sense among the overwhelming majority of voters that he would be the party's nominee, regardless of who they supported on Tuesday. And he ran closely with Mr. Santorum among evangelical Christians and very conservative voters - groups that have helped Mr. Santorum win several states.
Eight in 10 voters in Wisconsin said that they expected Mr. Romney to win the nomination, exit polls found, and that they supported Mr. Romney over Mr. Santorum by a wide margin. As has been the case in every contest so far this year, voters were most looking for a candidate that could defeat Mr. Obama - nearly 4 in 10 were, and Mr. Romney won them by a huge margin. Mr. Romney also won most of the one in 6 voters looking for someone with the right experience.
In his victory speech Tuesday night, Mr. Romney, the former Massachusetts governor whose great personal wealth has often led to attacks by Democrats that he is out of touch, planned to portray Mr. Obama as out of touch. "It's enough to make you think that years of flying around on Air Force One, surrounded by an adoring staff of true believers telling you what a great job you are doing, well, that might be enough to make you a little out of touch,'' Mr. Romney planned to say, according to an excerpt from his speech provided by his campaign.
By winning Wisconsin, Mr. Romney, whose supporters outspent Mr. Santorum's supporters on television ads in Wisconsin by more than four to one, made it much harder for Mr. Santorum to make the case that he still had a strong path to winning the nomination. Even as Mr. Romney amassed more than half the delegates he needed to clinch the nomination, Mr. Santorum told his own supporters in Pennsylvania on Tuesday night that "it's halftime" in the race. He pledged to run a strong second half. 
Mr. Santorum won voters who said it mattered a great deal to them that a candidate shared their religious beliefs, but in Wisconsin, they accounted for only about a quarter of all voters - far fewer than in the Southern states he won, like Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, where more than 4 in 10 said so. Nearly a quarter cared most about having a candidate who had a strong moral character, while 2 in 10 were most looking for a true conservative - groups that Mr. Santorum ran strongly with.
Evangelicals and very conservative voters - who did not make up as large a portion of the Wisconsin electorate as they did in several of the Southern states Mr. Santorum won - were closely divided between the top two candidates. Non-evangelicals and those who described themselves as somewhat conservative favored Mr. Romney by wide margins.
- 
9:37 P.M. | Romney Wins D.C. Primary, A.P. Reports
Mr. Romney won a decisive victory in the Republican primary in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, according to The Associated Press, seizing an easy win in a contest where his closest rival, Mr. Santorum, was not even on the ballot.
Mr. Romney's victory in the nation's capital came despite the fact that he has spent considerably less time there over the years than his rivals who did appear on the ballot - Mr. Gingrich, the former House Speaker, and Representative Ron Paul of Texas. The city only has 30,000 registered Republicans, but it has 19 delegates to award, more than the 12 New Hampshire had.
Mr. Romney's win showed the benefits of a well-financed, well-organized campaign structure: it continued his streak of picking up delegates in places that are not states. Mr. Romney's win in Washington D.C., followed on his victories in contests in Puerto Rico, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands and American Samoa.
- 
9:35 P.M. | Romney Crowd Celebrates Expected Results in Wisconsin
MILWAUKEE - Mr. Santorum seems to be an afterthought here at the Grain Exchange, the home of Mr. Romney's election night victory party, and an ornate old building with columns and sprawling frescoes in downtown Milwaukee.
As Mr. Santorum delivered his election night speech, above a chyron that blasted reports of Mr. Romney's wins in Maryland and Washington, D.C., the crowd of no more than 200 largely ignored the television screens on either side of the ballroom that were broadcasting Mr. Santorum's remarks. 
At nearly 8:30 p.m. Central time, Fox News called Wisconsin for Mr. Romney - the first network to do so - and large cheer erupted in the ballroom.
The relatively small crowd began chanting: "Romney! Romney! Romney!"
Moments later, Mr. Romney's traveling press secretary, Rick Gorka, appeared and said that Mr. Romney was set to address the crowd in about five minutes.
Mr. Romney had expected to win Wisconsin, and hopes that his momentum here will help propel him to victory on April 24, when Rhode Island, Delaware, Connecticut, New York and Pennsylvania, Mr. Santorum's home state, head to the polls.
Already, Mr. Romney is looking ahead to the next set of primaries.
"Tonight, I'm asking the good people of Connecticut, Delaware, New York, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island to join me," Mr. Romney will say, according to excerpts of his remarks released by the campaign. "Join me in the next step toward that destination of November 6th, when across America we can give a sigh of relief and know that the promise of America has been kept."
- 
9:28 P.M. | Santorum Promises 'Strong Second Half'
Mr. Santorum, who did not appear to be having a good night on Tuesday, told his supporters in his home state of Pennsylvania that "it's halftime'' in the race, and pledged to run a strong second half.
"Ladies and gentlemen, Pennsylvania and half of the other people in this country have yet to be heard,'' Mr. Santorum told supporters in Mars, Pa. They responded with chants of "Go, Rick, go!"
As he spoke, unofficial delegate counts suggested that Mr. Romney, his main rival, had already won half the delegates he would need to secure the nomination. But Mr. Santorum chose in his speech to view that delegate glass as half-empty, not half-full. He sounded like a man who planned to continue running until Pennsylvania votes on April 24, and possibly after that. And he renewed his call for Republicans to unite around someone who had always opposed health care plans like the ones that Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney had supported.
"We have to have clear, contrasting colors,'' he said.
- 
9:11 P.M. | Wisconsin Exit Polls: How Different Groups Voted
Wisconsin Exit Polls: How Different Groups Voted
- 
8:57 P.M. | Caucus Click: Inside the Grain Exchange 
- 
8:26 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Lodi, Wis.
Name: Ken Jesiolowski
Location: Lodi, Wis.
Political Affiliation: Republican
Age: 72
Occupation: Retired
Concerned About: Debt
Supporting: Mitt Romney
- 
8:02 P.M. | Romney Wins Maryland Primary, A.P. Projects
Mr. Romney easily won the Maryland primary on Tuesday night, according to The Associated Press, steadily adding to a comfortable delegate lead that he hopes will soon be formidable enough to drive his lagging rivals from the race for the Republican presidential nomination.
The Maryland primary did not attract nearly as much attention as the one in Wisconsin. Maryland has been reliably Democratic in recent years, while Wisconsin is a swing state that is sure to be contested in November. Maryland has long been seen as a stronghold for Mr. Romney, while the race between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum appeared to be much closer in Wisconsin. But Maryland still has 37 delegates to award, five shy of Wisconsin, which makes a victory there important as the nominating contest has increasingly become a delegate hunt. 
But few expect his victory in Maryland to augur much for November: the state has reliably been one of the most Democratic states in recent presidential elections. But the state could figure in future presidential politics: its governor, Martin O'Malley, is already being mentioned as a possible Democratic presidential candidate -- in 2016.
- 
7:56 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Madison, Wis.
Name: Alex Hudy
Location: Madison, Wis.
Age: 23
Political Affiliation: Independent
Occupation: Student
Concerned About: Alternative energy and energy independence
Supporting: Mitt Romney
- 
7:34 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Lodi, Wis. 
Name: Shirley Chizek
Location: Lodi, Wis.
Political Affiliation: Independent
Age: 77
Occupation: Retired
Concerned About: The economy
Supporting: Rick Santorum
- 
7:31 P.M. | Santorum Looks Ahead to Pennsylvania
MARS, Pa. - Six years ago, Pennsylvania voters gave Mr. Santorum the boot. Now, he is depending on them to rescue his faltering presidential campaign.
Mr. Santorum is beginning his reclamation project Tuesday night in this oddly named small town about 30 miles north of Pittsburgh. (No one seems to know why it was named Mars, but a while back, some locals parked a small spaceship here, and it has become a landmark.)
But Mr. Santorum did not come for the potential for sci-fi humor; he will be speaking here later Tuesday night in a hotel ballroom after the returns come in from Wisconsin. And, his campaign hopes he can change the national conversation from one about whether he is dropping out of the race to one about his intention to stay in.
Mars is located in a strong Republican area. It is not far from Butler, the steel town where Mr. Santorum grew up.
Over the next three weeks, until the April 24 primary, Mr. Santorum intends to campaign across the state's highways and byways, reaching out to the same kind of voters who have supported him in other states - evangelicals, blue-collar voters and those who are very conservative. They tend to live in rural areas, much like this.
Those voters - evangelicals and conservatives - were the ones who stood by him during his drubbing in 2006 when he sought re-election to a third term in the Senate. There were not enough of them to counter the overwhelming negative views of the moderate Republicans, independents and Democrats who sent him packing in that general election.
But they are likely to dominate the Republican primary, and Mr. Santorum is banking his future on them. He has said Pennsylvania is a must-win state for him, and he has predicted he will win it - at least the popular vote.
The more important contest for the state's trove of delegates is another matter, and Mr. Romney's campaign expects to get at least half of them.
So far, most polls show Mr. Santorum winning the popular vote. A new poll released Tuesday by Quinnipiac University found Mr. Santorum with a lead of six percentage points over Mr. Romney.
But anything can happen over three weeks.
- 
7:23 P.M. | Exit Polls: Electability Matters Most ... Again
What do Wisconsin Republicans want in a nominee? Someone who can beat Mr. Obama this fall.
Asked what quality mattered most in deciding whom to vote for, a plurality - almost 4 in 10 - told exit polls that they were looking for a candidate who could defeat Mr. Obama. 
The runners-up: 21 percent of those surveyed said they wanted a candidate with strong moral character, 19 percent said they wanted a candidate with the right experience, and 18 percent said they were looking for a true conservative.
- 
7:22 P.M. | Exit Polls: Voters Are Divided on Health Care Candidate
Though Mr. Santorum tried to make the case in Wisconsin that Mr. Romney's record on health care "uniquely disqualified" him to take on Mr. Obama on the issue, Republican primary voters are closely divided over whom they trust more to handle the issue. Almost a third trust Mr. Romney more to handle health care policy; almost as many have more confidence in Mr. Santorum's abilities in this field.
That may reflect Mr. Romney's particular situation when it comes to the federal health care law that came under intense scrutiny at the Supreme Court last week. 
While Mr. Obama has championed the Affordable Care Act, having signed it into law in 2010, Mr. Romney has struggled to defend his role in shaping health policy when he was governor of Massachusetts. Conservatives, and even more moderate Republicans, have faulted Mr. Romney for endorsing the mandate in that state, the one that many describe as the model for the national requirement to obtain insurance - the least publicly popular provision of the federal legislation.
The exit polls bear out what has been discussed on the campaign trail during the Republican primary season. Those who describe themselves as very conservative have more faith in Mr. Santorum's decisions on health care policy. Those Wisconsin voters who trust in Mr. Romney's abilities regarding health care tend to be more affluent and better educated.
- 
7:01 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Madison, Wis.
Name: Lucas Moench
Location: Madison, Wis.
Political Affiliation: Republican
Age: 23
Occupation: Legislative assistant
Concerned About: The economy
Supporting: Mitt Romney
- 
6:52 P.M. | Exit Polls: Romney Is Expected to Be Nominee
As the Republican race marches on, the broad majority of Wisconsin primary voters expect Mr. Romney to be the eventual Republican nominee, regardless of which candidate they voted for on Tuesday.
Mr. Romney is well short of the 1,144 delegates he needs to clinch the nomination, but he leads Mr. Santorum by more than two to one, according to an Associated Press count. 
More than 8 in 10 voters in Tuesday's primary say they think Mr. Romney will be the party's standard-bearer, according to preliminary exit polls. While nearly all of Mr. Romney's supporters say so, as do about two-thirds of Mr. Santorum's voters. About 3 in 10 Santorum supporters expect their candidate to win. 
And most voters on Tuesday are just fine with Mr. Romney at the top of the party's ticket. 
About two-thirds say they would be satisfied if Mr. Romney won the nomination. But here Mr. Santorum's supporters are less enthused. 
About 4 in 10 of them say they would be satisfied with Mr. Romney, while nearly 6 in 10 would be dissatisfied.
- 
6:40 P.M. | The Wisconsin Primary, in Pictures
A multiday slide show looking back at the Wisconsin primary.
- 
6:31 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Lodi, Wis. 
Name: Carol Richart
Location: Lodi, Wis.
Political Affiliation: Republican
Age: 74
Occupation: Retired nurse
Concerned About: The economy
Supporting: Mitt Romney
- 
6:25 P.M. | Exit Polls: High Approval Ratings for Walker
Gov. Scott Walker, the Republican who is the first Wisconsin governor to face a recall, gets a high job performance review from the voters in Tuesday's Republican primary. 
Seven in 10 strongly approve of how he is handling his job, according to early exit polls. Among the voters who support the Tea Party, 9 in 10 strongly approve of his work as governor, as do voters who consider themselves very conservative. 
Mr. Walker won election with strong support from the Tea Party movement. But the governor has battled with public employee unions since taking office in January 2011, and several Democrats are now vying to replace him. The recall election is set for June.
- 
6:18 P.M. | D.C. Is Largely Ignored, Despite Delegate Haul
And now, the moment the political world has been breathlessly waiting for... the Republican presidential primary in Washington.
O.K., it must be said: There have not been months of Republican town hall meetings held in the District of Columbia to give regular voters a chance to pepper the candidates with questions, or campaign stops to give candidates the chance to shake hands outside local landmarks like Ben's Chili Bowl. It would seem like a waste of time, perhaps, in a city where there are more than 10 times as many registered Democrats as Republicans.
Mr. Santorum did not even qualify for the Washington ballot.
Yet Washington has 19 delegates in its gift - more than the 12 New Hampshire has this year, after it was penalized by the Republican National Committee for moving up the date of its primary. All of which goes to illustrate a point: momentum has always trumped math in recent years when parties have picked their nominees. Candidates, and states, have always bet that a string of early victories would help the party coalesce around a nominee long before the delegates were summoned to the national convention.
It is the reason many campaigns practically move into the early states like Iowa and New Hampshire, despite the fact that states with many more delegates vote only a little later. Iowa has fewer delegates than Wisconsin, which votes on Tuesday, and yet there are always many earnest campaign discussions about the merits of ethanol, and never any talk of alternative energy sources made from, say, cheese. 
Will momentum trump math again this year? Mr. Romney hopes so, but both Mr. Santorum and Newt Gingrich have spoken of fighting it out delegate by delegate, all the way to the convention this summer in Tampa, Fla. The coming weeks should clarify which approach will win.
- 
6:12 P.M. | Exit Polls: Fewer Evangelicals and Conservative Voters
Mr. Romney finds himself on friendlier demographic terrain in Wisconsin than in the Southern states that have voted so far, with fewer of the types of voters he has struggled to capture, including evangelical Christians and those who are very conservative.
About one-third of Wisconsin primary voters described themselves as evangelical Christians in preliminary exit poll results.
In each contest to date where evangelicals have constituted a minority of the electorate, Mr. Romney has won. Where they have made up the majority, he has lost. In the contests so far, they've accounted for as much as 83 percent of voters in Mississippi, and as few as 16 percent of voters in Massachusetts.
About 3 in 10 voters in preliminary exit poll results said they considered themselves very conservative, far fewer than in several states Mr. Romney lost, including Louisiana (where 49 percent were very conservative), Oklahoma (47 percent), Iowa (47 percent), Mississippi (42 percent) and Tennessee (41 percent). 
Yet Mr. Romney has not done poorly with these voters in every state. He won them or essentially split them with Mr. Santorum in some states, including New Hampshire, Nevada, Arizona, Massachusetts and Vermont. 
Exit poll results also indicate an increase since 2008 in the number of independents and Democrats voting in Tuesday's open Republican primary.
In preliminary results, about 3 in 10 voters say they are independents while just more than one in 10 are Democrats. Four years ago, amid a competitive Democratic nominating race, 23 percent of Republican primary voters were independents, and 5 percent were Democrats.
- 
6:11 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Madison, Wis. 
Name: Ida Lee Siewert, 
Location: Madison, Wis.
Political Affiliation: Republican
Age: 87
Occupation: Retired
Concerned About: The economy
Supporting: Newt Gingrich
- 
5:39 P.M. | Romney Looks for Win in Wisconsin 
WAUKESHA, Wis. - Mr. Romney believes that a big win in Wisconsin on Tuesday night might be just the ticket to put him on a path to finally clinching the Republican Party's nomination. 
His election night party will be held at the Grain Exchange, an appropriately eloquent and grandiose site, with granite and limestone ornamentation and high ceilings.
And in a sign that the 2012 presidential election is truly shaping up to be a contest between Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama, the two men exchanged perhaps their most direct barbs yet in dueling speeches on Tuesday.
Mr. Obama, in a lunchtime speech to reporters and editors from The Associated Press, criticized not only the Republican party but also Mr. Romney himself, latching on to a word the former governor of Massachusetts had used - "marvelous" - to describe a Republican budget proposal led by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, with whom Mr. Romney has spent the past several days campaigning. 
Marvelous, Mr. Obama said, in an apparent jab at Mr. Romney's somewhat patrician vocabulary, "is a word you don't often hear when it comes to a budget; it's a word you don't often hear generally."
At a stop by Cousins Subs in Waukesha, Mr. Romney, accompanied by Mr. Ryan, called on the president to take responsibility for the nation's current woes.
"He gets full credit or blame for what's happened in this economy, and what's happened to gasoline prices under his watch, and what's happened to our schools, and what's happened to our military forces," Mr. Romney said. "All these things are his responsibility while he's president."
He added: "It's time to have someone who will take responsibility, and if I'm president, I will not only get things right again, I'll take responsibility for my errors and make sure that people understand we will have a president in the White House again where the buck will stop at his desk."
- 
5:29 P.M. | Exit Polls: Wisconsin Voters Are Down on Economy 
Wisconsin's Republican primary voters have a dour view of the national economy.
The economy was the most important issue on voters' minds as they went to the polls in Wisconsin on Tuesday, as has been the case in all states with exit polls thus far. And despite a somewhat healthy state economy, a majority of Republican primary voters in Wisconsin say the national economy is stagnating or getting worse.
Nearly 4 in 10 Republican primary voters said the economy was getting worse, while nearly 3 in 10 said it was staying the same, according to early exit poll results. Fewer than 3 in 10 said they thought it was starting to recover. And nearly 6 in 10 voters said the economy mattered most in deciding how to vote on Tuesday.
Wisconsin has lower unemployment and poverty rates than the national average, but also has a worrisome rate of foreclosures and high gas prices.
In February 2012, Wisconsin's unemployment was at 6.9 percent, well below the national unemployment rate of 8.3 percent, but higher than the 5.9 percent when Mr. Obama was elected in November 2008.
The state has the 10th highest foreclosure rate in the country, with one in every 596 housing units in foreclosure in February, according to RealtyTrac, a company that tracks foreclosure listings.
As of Tuesday, an average price for a gallon of regular gasoline is $3.98, compared to $3.92, the national average, and 12th highest in the country (in 11 states, a gallon of gas costs more than $4 per gallon). A month ago, the average cost was $3.67, an 8 percent increase, but the price has risen about 18 percent from the start of 2012.
- 
5:22 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Lodi, Wis.
Name: Herbert Carberry
Location: Lodi, Wis.
Political Affiliation: Republican
Age: 72
Occupation: Retired
Concerned About: Cutting spending
Supporting: Mitt Romney
- 
5:14 P.M. | Wisconsin in the Political Crosswinds
Has any state been buffeted more by the political crosswinds of the past few years than Wisconsin?
As Republicans go to the polls there on Tuesday, it is worth considering a little recent history. Wisconsin, where Al Gore and John Kerry eked out only the narrowest of wins in their presidential races, gave Mr. Obama a comfortable majority in the 2008 election. But before Democrats could begin coloring the state a deeper shade of blue, things began to change.
First, David R. Obey, a liberal Wisconsinite who helped write Mr. Obama's stimulus bill when he was the chairman of House Appropriations Committee, announced in 2010 that he was stepping down after four decades in Congress. Later that year, Senator Russ Feingold, a fiercely independent three-term Democrat, lost his bid for a fourth term to Ron Johnson, a wealthy Republican plastics manufacturer. And, perhaps most important, Scott Walker, a Republican, was elected governor. 
Mr. Walker won in part by pledging not to build an $810 million rail line, paid for by the federal government, between Milwaukee and Madison. Once elected, he gave back the money as promised - inspiring other states to do the same thing, and imperiling Mr. Obama's plans to build a high-speed rail system. But it was another step, which had not figured in the campaign, that made Mr. Walker famous.
When Mr. Walker moved to curb collective bargaining rights for public sector unions, he incited a huge backlash that seemed to re-energize the nation's labor movement. Now, he is facing a recall election on June 5 that has threatened to overshadow the presidential primary, with big Republican donors coming to his aid and Democrats gearing up for the rare chance to oust a Republican midterm.
But what happens in the state this June could have big ramifications in November, as Republicans hope to build on their gains in the once-blue state, while Democrats hope that voters will believe that the Republicans overreached after they came to power in the state. Neither side seems quite sure which way the political winds will be blowing by then, after what promises to be a hard-fought, well-financed race for control of Wisconsin over the next few months.
- 
5:06 P.M. | Wisconsin Votes After Fiercely Fought Battle 
WAUKESHA, Wis. - As Wisconsin voters went to the polls on Tuesday in the first hard-fought Republican presidential primary in the state since 1980, many echoed the arguments made by the two main rivals on the campaign trail.
Mitt Romney's supporters said he was the best choice to defeat President Obama, and they urged fellow Republicans to unite behind him. Those favoring Rick Santorum praised his rock-ribbed conservatism and argued that the contest isn't over until it's over.
"I spoke to my dad, who's very political, and he figured Romney has the best chance of beating Obama - that's what it came down to," said Brandy Holtz, 42, who works for a tree company in this suburb of Milwaukee.
Greg Torres, 25, a state transportation employee, said Mr. Santorum "seems like somebody who's going to stick with what he says."
"I think a long fought-out primary will be helpful in getting the message out," he added.
Polls in the past week have shown Mr. Romney, who trailed Mr. Santorum in mid-February, solidifying a lead in Wisconsin.
Although there are also primaries on Tuesday in Maryland and Washington, D.C., Mr. Romney is expected to win those contests easily, and so it has been this state, with 42 delegates at stake, where both leading candidates have campaigned hardest.
Read more
- 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%) Elections

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (88%) WISCONSIN, USA (98%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (96%); MARYLAND, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012



94 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Counterintuitive Theories on Obama and Supreme Court Run Against Polling Evidence

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Some political aides and pundits say that if the Supreme Court declares President Obama's health care bill to be unconstitutional, it would be good news for him politically, but there are problems with that argument. 

 BODY:
Read enough political coverage, and you will find someone willing to advance almost any kind of position, despite (or perhaps because of) its being counterintuitive.
The latest fad seems to be articles claiming that if the Supreme Court declares President Obama's health care bill to be unconstitutional, it would be good news for him politically. This position has been argued by the Democratic pollster Mark Penn, the Democratic strategist Bob Shrum and CNN's James Carville, among others.
The theory seems to rest on the notion that Mr. Obama could use the health care bill to rally his base, either by railing against the Supreme Court or by trying to advance a new plan.
There are a few basic problems with it:
1. Mr. Obama does not face a major problem with his base, but his standing is tenuous with swing voters.
2. Among swing voters, the health care bill is not very popular.
3. The Supreme Court declaring the health care bill unconstitutional will not make it more popular among swing voters.
Obama and the Base
Mr. Obama's approval ratings are now 84 percent with Democrats and 87 percent with liberal Democrats, according to the latest Gallup poll. Those numbers are fairly normal by historic standards.
In Gallup polls conducted in April of the years that incumbents were running for re-election, presidents have had a 78 percent approval rating on average within their own parties. This was despite the fact that these presidents had a slightly higher overall approval rating, 53 percent, than Mr. Obama does now.
In fact, Mr. Obama has the second widest gap between his intraparty support and his overall support at this stage of the race, trailing only George W. Bush in 2004.
Much of this is predictable based on the increased partisanship in the country -- so I do not know that I would characterize Mr. Obama's intraparty support as being extraordinary. But it is certainly very ordinary given Mr. Obama's overall standing and the trend toward increased partisanship.
Nor are there many signs of a large "enthusiasm gap" between partisans on either side. Instead, it seems to have narrowed from 2010, with some polls suggesting that Democratic voters are slightly more enthusiastic than Republicans, and other surveys saying the opposite.
Mr. Obama should still have plenty of issues to rally his base, like the Republicans' tax plan and the nation's gradually improving economy (base voters care about that just like swing voters do), regardless of what the Supreme Court does with his health care bill.
Among Swing Voters, the Health Care Bill Is Not Very Popular
The polling numbers on the health care bill have been remarkably stable since it was passed in 2010, even as Mr. Obama's overall approval rating has fluctuated. Currently, an average of surveys shows that 40 percent of voters support the bill and 48 percent oppose it.
The reasons for support and opposition are complicated, but nevertheless the median voter is not a fan of the legislation. In most surveys, support and opposition to the bill among independent voters are similar to or slightly worse than the overall figures; CNN's latest poll had 41 percent of independents in favor of the bill but 53 percent against it.
Among Swing Voters, the Supreme Court Declaring the Health Care Bill Unconstitutional Will Not Make It More Popular
The Supreme Court's standing has eroded in recent years, and it is not an extraordinarily popular institution. However, if the median voter somewhat dislikes the health care bill, she probably has a tepid respect for the Supreme Court. Two polls conducted in 2011 (before the Supreme Court started to debate the health care bill) showed an average of about 47 percent of Americans approving of the job the Supreme Court was doing and about 37 percent opposing it -- numbers that are almost the exact reverse of those for the health care bill.
It is possible that a ruling against the health care bill may damage the Supreme Court's standing, but that is not our focus here, nor is it the basis of the claims being advanced by Mr. Penn and others. Instead, the question is whether the marginal effect of the health care bill being declared unconstitutional would be good news or bad news for Mr. Obama. And those numbers are not auspicious for him.
A recent Pew poll found that 23 percent of voters took a less favorable view toward the health care bill after hearing it argued before the Supreme Court and 7 percent a more favorable one. Most voters were unmoved from previous position.
It can credibly be argued that the health care bill will not make much difference one way or the other to the campaign. Mr. Obama had been giving it only limited emphasis, and is not the easiest issue for the likely Republican nominee, Mitt Romney, to focus upon because he passed a similar bill in Massachusetts. Moreover, most voters already have deeply held perceptions about the bill, and the ruling is expected to come down in June, well in advance of the election.
However, the argument that the bill being struck down would actually help Mr. Obama seems to have little grounding in the evidence -- nor, frankly, in common sense. Among the voters that are most critical to Mr. Obama's re-election prospects, the Supreme Court is more popular than the health care bill. If the justices declare one of the president's signature accomplishments to be unconstitutional, it would not be a boon to him.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); TRENDS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Obama, Barack; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; Reform and Reorganization; Supreme Court; United States; Health; Legal; Politics; Polling

ORGANIZATION: OREGON SUPREME COURT (57%) Supreme Court

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012



95 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Property Tax Appeals Benefit Big Companies

BYLINE: By JIM NASH

 BODY:
It turns out that of life's two certainties, death and taxes, there is some wiggle room when it comes to property taxes in New York State. Anyone can contest the assessed value of a property -- on which property taxes are based -- and, to the distress of local governments statewide, many are doing so at a time when values are falling and companies are looking to save money wherever they can.
Such formal appeals are known as tax certiorari, or tax certs. Every year in New York, municipalities and school districts hand back hundreds of thousands or even millions of dollars in property tax refunds. 
Property owners say the refunds are a just reward for assessments that can be inaccurate -- years and sometimes decades out of date. But some agencies, already struggling with tight budgets, are taking on debt to make the payments.
Filing an annual tax cert appeal is routine for big companies, which typically own large and expensive parcels of land, experts say. Among the corporations that have filed for refunds in New York recently are I.B.M., Verizon and 7-Eleven.
Negotiated remedies can be a lump sum repayment, but companies also can agree to receive no repayment. In these cases, owners might simply agree to a new assessment they believe is fairer. Sometimes governments agree to spread the settlement amount over several years, in which case a business pays no property taxes until the repayment is complete.
In a case in Poughkeepsie, I.B.M. protested the 2008 and 2009 annual assessments of its 3.8 million-square-foot plant along South Road. The property had been valued at $160 million in those years, said David D. Hagstrom, who acted as special counsel for the Town of Poughkeepsie.
The resulting negotiated deal kept the $160 million assessments in 2008 and 2009, but the property's value was reduced to $110 million and frozen there for 15 years. Local governments are satisfied because they did not have to hand back any money.
And not only does I.B.M. get a predictable and lower tax bill for many years, it is also immune from any tax increases approved by the town and schools over that period. There are exceptions for major development at the plant and another major downturn of local property values.
''Tax certs certainly have had more impact on local governments through the downturn, particularly commercial, industrial and retail'' claims, said Karla M. Corpus, a real estate tax expert and a partner in the Syracuse office of the law firm Hiscock & Barclay.
While towns and counties feel the pain of refunds, said Ralph Napolitano, the superintendent of Yorktown Central School District in Westchester County, schools are hardest hit because the largest share of most tax bills is earmarked to finance them. As a result, up to 60 percent of a refund can come from schools.
Mr. Napolitano said Yorktown schools refunded $45,000 in the 2008-9 school year, $52,000 in 2009-10 and $934,000 in 2010-11. Already this year, the district has committed to $877,000 in refunds, he said.
Daniel McCann, the superintendent of the nearby Hendrick Hudson School District, in Montrose, said: ''We had $300,000 in tax certs last year, and this year, we'll have $400,000. We don't have a reserve for it anymore. We have to borrow.''
Successful tax cert appeals often set a new valuation that stands until the parcel is reassessed. In other words, it is likely that the property owner today will pay the lower taxes well into the future, hobbling districts when the economy rebounds.
It is not uncommon to find properties around the state that have not been revalued since the 1950s or even earlier. Of the 983 taxing authorities in the state, only 468 hold periodic reassessments, according to the state's taxation and finance department. That is in no small part because potential voters assume wrongly that revaluations always raise their tax bills, said Matthew P. Metz, a real estate lawyer and former member of the town board in Yorktown.
By comparison, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts mandates statewide reassessments every three years, and Connecticut requires them every five years. Calls for an assessment mandate are increasing in Pennsylvania, which, like New York, leaves the process to municipalities.
New York City is among those municipalities that perform regular revaluations, reassessing its one million parcels every year.
In the city, the major complaint among commercial property owners is not that assessments are necessarily outdated, said Peter E. Blond, a partner at the law firm Brandt, Steinberg & Lewis, which has represented businesses in tax-appeal cases since 1932.
Instead, Mr. Blond said, city assessors are overstretched and lack critical industry tools for making accurate assessments.
In response, Glenn Newman, the president of the New York City Tax Commission, said suggestions of insufficient training were ''questionable.'' Finance Department and Tax Commission assessors are required to obtain certification from the State Board of Real Property Tax Services, Mr. Newman said. And, beginning with the 2011-12 tax year, the commission is imposing a fee on higher-value property to restore some positions cut in previous years and to move some commission functions online for easier access.
The fee, $175, is applied to property with an actual assessed value of at least $2 million.
For the foreseeable future, however, few expect any changes in how properties in the state are assessed. A bill, A9038-2011, has been introduced by Sandy Galef, assemblywoman of District 90, that would require all taxing authorities to reassess all their properties every four years. The legislation has been sent to the ways and means committee, but Ms. Galef concedes it will be ''really tough'' to get it passed.
In New Rochelle, the finance commissioner, Howard Rattner, said he recently presented the City Council with a plan for regular revaluations, the first since the 1950s.
''The council told me, 'Sit on that one for a while,' '' he said. This despite the city having had to negotiate $33 million in refunds for itself, local schools and Westchester County from 2002 to 2010. He expects to have processed an additional $8.5 million in 2011.
The combination of political unpopularity and cost might doom any effort to revamp the system. Several officials around the state say it is less expensive to pay tax cert refunds than to enact regular reassessments.
Ms. Corpus, of Hiscock & Barclay, said ''a big chunk of the problem'' with tax certs would be solved if Albany forced periodic reassessments. ''But the state would have to pay for it,'' she said, ''and local governments would need to control the process, or it wouldn't stand a chance.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matthew P. Metz in his law office. He says taxpayers wrongly assume that reassessment will raise their tax bills. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOYCE DOPKEEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); LAWYERS (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (70%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (70%); APPROVALS (68%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); 7-ELEVEN INC (55%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (55%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (55%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



96 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; CITY KITCHEN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: With Lamb, Flavor Comes in Small Packages

BYLINE: By DAVID TANIS

 BODY:
WE think of spring as the season of the lamb, but in truth, the term ''spring lamb'' is a misnomer. The lamb you see in shops now is from animals 6 to 9 months old, which means they were born last fall at the earliest. The exception is suckling or milk-fed lamb, only a few weeks old, which is a delicacy prized in Europe but rarely available in the United States. If you can find it, it is extraordinary.
Modern breeding practices make lamb available year round, and it is now relatively mild-flavored, raised to a smaller size than mutton, which is a sheep 1 to 2 years old. One doesn't see mutton much in this country -- it is more often found in the British Isles -- though some cooks favor its more intense taste. Generally speaking, with lamb, smaller is better when it comes to flavor. 
Perhaps because lamb is not as well loved by Americans as it is elsewhere, it tends to be a pricey commodity. The majority of domestic lamb comes from Colorado these days, but imported lamb from New Zealand is what many butchers carry. Expect to pay a pretty penny for both, especially for the prime cuts.
Lamb bought from your farmers' market or online from small farms will cost somewhat more, though chances are it was more carefully raised and may have a smaller carbon footprint.
The rack of lamb and the loin, which can be quickly grilled or sauteed, are more expensive than the braising cuts, like shank or shoulder. Yet for a splurge dinner, rib chops (the tender little chops from the rack) make tasty morsels, and cooking them at home is still far cheaper than ordering them at a restaurant.
Though you can buy individual rib chops, it is easy to cut a rack into eight chops yourself, which is more economical. (You will want to have it Frenched, that is, trimmed to expose the bones and rib-eye. Most butchers sell lamb racks that are already prepared this way.) How many chops make a portion? Two make a moderate serving, but you may need three or four for heartier appetites.
A wonderful way to prepare rib chops is to coat them in a mixture of bread crumbs and Parmesan cheese, then fry them gently in olive oil to give them a crisp, golden, savory crust. Served with lemon wedges and a pile of garlicky greens like broccoli rabe or spinach, they make a lovely springtime treat.
Recipe: Parmesan Lamb Chops
Time: About 30 minutes
1 small rack of lamb, Frenched by a butcher, about 1 1/2 pounds, or 8 3-ounce rib chops
Salt and pepper
1/2 cup bread crumbs, preferably homemade
1/2 ounce grated Parmesan (about
1/2 cup)
1/2 teaspoon powdered fennel seed (use an electric spice mill or mortar and pestle)
1 teaspoon finely chopped rosemary
1/2 cup flour seasoned with 1/2 teaspoon salt, 1/4 teaspoon black pepper and a pinch cayenne
2 small eggs, lightly beaten
Olive oil for frying (or substitute clarified butter or vegetable oil)
Parsley sprigs for serving
Lemon wedges for serving.
1. With a sharp knife, cut between bones to divide the rack of lamb into 8 chops. Trim chops of any excess fat. Season with salt and pepper on both sides.
2. In a small bowl, mix together the bread crumbs, Parmesan, fennel seed and rosemary.
3. Dip each chop into the seasoned flour, then into the beaten eggs. Lay the chops on a baking sheet and sprinkle both sides of each liberally with the crumb mixture. Press any remaining mixture evenly over the chops to coat well.
4. In a wide skillet, pour the olive oil to a depth of 1/2 inch. Heat over a medium-high burner until the oil looks wavy. Add the chops without crowding. They should begin to sizzle, but not brown too quickly. Adjust the heat so they fry gently for about 2 1/2 minutes, until crisp and golden. Turn with tongs and fry on the other side for about 2 minutes. (The interiors should be pink and juicy, but not rare.) Blot on paper towels. Serve with parsley sprigs and lemon wedges.
Yield: 2 to 3 servings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); CHEESE (89%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (87%); MAMMALS (77%); RESTAURANTS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



97 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Can Brazil Stop Iran?

BYLINE: By BERNARD ARONSON. 
Bernard Aronson, a private equity manager, was assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs from 1989 to 1993.

 BODY:
Washington
BRAZIL, the saying used to go, is the land of the future -- and always will be. But when Brazil's president, Dilma Rousseff, visits the White House next week, she will come as the leader of a country whose future has arrived.
With huge new offshore oil discoveries and foreign investment flooding in, Brazil's economy, growing twice as fast as America's, has surpassed Britain's to become the world's seventh largest. As a member of the Group of 20 and host of the 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Olympics, Brazil is an emerging global leader. 
But there is one area where it has an opportunity to lead and has failed to: preventing the spread of nuclear weapons. Brazil should take the bold step of voluntarily ending its uranium enrichment program and calling on other nations, including Iran, to follow its example.
Brazil started off as a force for nonproliferation. It voluntarily placed its nuclear facilities under International Atomic Energy Agency supervision in 1991 and later joined the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. But in 2004, Brazil, home to the world's fifth largest uranium reserves, also proclaimed that all states had an ''inalienable right'' to enrich uranium for ''peaceful purposes.'' It then constructed an enrichment facility and fought with the I.A.E.A. for more than a year before giving inspectors access.
Brazil says its enrichment program is for peaceful purposes, and there is no reason to doubt it. The treaty permits signers to produce enriched uranium to fuel commercial and research reactors, store the radioactive fuel and reprocess spent fuel as long as all nuclear facilities are subject to I.A.E.A. oversight.
But the its greatest flaw is that the same facilities that enrich uranium for peaceful purposes can also be used to enrich it further for nuclear weapons. And reprocessed fuel from peaceful reactors yields plutonium that can be used in nuclear bombs. By exploiting this ''enrichment loophole,'' North Korea developed a covert program to reprocess spent fuel, withdrew from the treaty and, soon after, developed nuclear weapons. Iran is trying to do the same.
Of the countries now operating or constructing nuclear energy or research reactors under the treaty, more than 40 also have the capabilities to build nuclear weapons by exploiting this loophole. If Iran develops this capability, it could, as President Obama has warned, exert inexorable pressure on Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Turkey to quickly pursue nuclear weapons themselves.
Brazil has unique standing among developing nations to address this proliferation danger because of its historic, nationalist defense of enrichment. If it were to renounce its right to enrich uranium in the name of international peace, close its enrichment facility, embrace a longstanding United Nations proposal to accept enriched uranium from the I.A.E.A., let the agency reprocess its spent fuel -- essentially the deal offered to Iran -- and call on other states that have signed the treaty to do the same, it would transform the nuclear debate.
A new Brazilian stance would take away Iran's principal argument that the advanced nuclear weapons states are pursuing a form of ''nuclear apartheid'' by pulling up the enrichment ''drawbridge'' before developing nations have a chance to cross. It would also give Iran a face-saving way to join other developing nations in a new multilateral effort to suspend enrichment rather than appearing to yield to Western sanctions and threats. Finally, if Brazil and other developing nations were to give up enrichment, it would make possible a new concerted international effort to close the enrichment loophole permanently by amending the nonproliferation treaty.
There are obstacles. Powerful commercial and military constituencies have a vested interest in continuing Brazil's enrichment program, and Brazilian nationalists would have to be mollified. Thus, it is vital that Brazil be perceived as acting on its own rather than yielding to pressure from Washington.
Still, the United States could offer incentives behind closed doors. Mr. Obama is weighing proposals to reduce America's fully operational nuclear arsenal by 30 percent or even more. Brazil currently leads a group of eight non-nuclear states that are pressing nuclear powers, including the United States, to deliver on their treaty commitments and move toward eventual nuclear disarmament -- and if there were a breakthrough on this front Brazil would be given substantial credit. Congress and the White House could also revisit the punitive tariff on Brazil's sugar-cane-based ethanol, which forces Americans to rely on more expensive corn-based ethanol and drives up the global price of food.
Renouncing its enrichment rights would overnight catapult Brazil into a position of global leadership on the most urgent security challenge facing the international community. And Brazil's leadership would inevitably shape the context for any future discussions about Brazil's permanent membership on an expanded United Nations Security Council -- one of its longstanding ambitions.
At a moment when the world is facing the prospect of war with Iran, Ms. Rousseff has the opportunity to make a courageous overture to help defuse the crisis; she should seize it.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOE MORTIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); POWER PLANTS (88%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); CLOSINGS (67%); OIL EXPLORATION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: DILMA ROUSSEFF (73%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



98 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus Outlook Wanes, And Shares Turn Down

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks fell on Tuesday, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index retreating from four-year highs after the Federal Reserve said it was less inclined to provide more economic stimulus. 
Supportive central bank policies have been a primary catalyst for the S.& P. 500's surge of 30 percent since October, although improving economic conditions have also helped.
Investors still expect a pullback, but the markets have remained resilient, often climbing as the close nears, as they did Monday and Tuesday.
Companies tied to growth were the big losers of the day. Energy shares fell 1 percent and materials lost 0.9 percent. Those industries and the broader market extended losses after the release of the Fed's minutes, though they rebounded. The day's strongest performer, utilities, is considered a defensive play.
The minutes from the Fed's March meeting said that ''a couple'' of committee members thought more stimulus might be needed if the economy lost momentum.
The January meeting's minutes said a ''few members'' saw the need for more easing.
''There have been signs of strength in manufacturing and employment. That has the Fed taking a wait-and-see approach on the sidelines, which is certainly a disappointment for a lot of investors,'' said Eric Teal, chief investment officer of First Citizens Bancshares in Raleigh, N.C., who helps oversee $21 billion in assets.
In the last week, economic figures have been less bullish for markets, making the less supportive words from the Fed a disappointment.
However, United States auto sales posted their best quarter since 2008, another sign of recovery in demand.
However, General Motors shares slumped 4.6 percent to $25.54 as the increase in its sales trailed that of other automakers. Ford Motor rose 2 cents to $12.64.
Financials fell 0.7 percent, with Morgan Stanley off 2.2 percent at $19.37 after the Federal Reserve said it was taking an enforcement action against the company for the way one of its mortgage servicing units handled home loans.
The Dow Jones industrial average declined 64.94 points, or 0.5 percent, to close at 13,199.55. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 5.66 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,413.38. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 6.13 points, or 0.2 percent, to 3,113.57.
Despite the day's declines, the Dow was still up 8 percent for the year, while the S.& P. 500 remained up 12.4 percent and the Nasdaq up 19.5 percent for 2012.
Earlier, data from the Commerce Department reinforced the view that the domestic economy was slowly improving, as new orders for factory goods rebounded in February, although the increase was less than expected.
American auto sales rose more than 15 percent in March.
Interest rates were higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 31/32, to 97 14/32, and the yield rose to 2.29 percent from 2.18 percent late Monday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (86%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); AUTOMAKERS (63%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (57%); F (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (69%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



99 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Said To Penalize JPMorgan's Lehman Ties

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
When Lehman Brothers collapsed at the height of the financial crisis, JPMorgan Chase was at the center of the storm. The bank was a major lender to the firm, which filed the biggest bankruptcy in United States history.
Now, more than three years later, regulators are set to penalize JPMorgan for actions tied to Lehman's demise, according to people briefed on the matter. It will be the first federal enforcement case to stem from Lehman's downfall.
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is expected this week to file a civil case against JPMorgan. The bank is expected to settle the Lehman matter and pay a fine of approximately $20 million. While the penalty is significant for the agency, the sum is little more than a rounding error for a bank as large as JPMorgan. 
The Lehman action stems from the questionable treatment of customer money - an issue that has been at the forefront of the recent outcry over MF Global. JPMorgan was also intimately involved in the final days of that brokerage firm.
The trading commission is expected to accuse JPMorgan of overextending credit to Lehman for two years leading up to its bankruptcy in 2008, the people briefed on the matter said.
JPMorgan extended the credit using an inaccurate evaluation of Lehman's worth, improperly counting Lehman's customer money as belonging to the firm. Under federal law, firms are not allowed to use customer money to secure or extend credit.
The arrangement worked well for both parties, according to the people briefed on the matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the case was not yet public. Lehman wanted a larger loan, and suggested counting money from the customer account to justify it. JPMorgan complied, counting the money as part of Lehman's coffers.
It is unclear whether JPMorgan knew the money belonged to clients. But in the view of regulators, it should have - the customer funds were kept at a JPMorgan account. The funds belonged to investors trading in the futures market.
The agency is also set to accuse JPMorgan of withholding separate Lehman customer funds for nearly two weeks, rather than turning them over to authorities, the people said. In the course of resolving that matter, regulators became aware of JPMorgan's questionable credit to Lehman, one of the people briefed on the matter said.
JPMorgan declined to comment. The bank is expected to neither admit nor deny wrongdoing as part of the settlement.
In some ways, the commission's case echoes MF Global, which is the biggest financial collapse since Lehman. In the case of MF Global, JPMorgan received money belonging to the brokerage firm's customers, who are still out $1.6 billion. The money vanished in the final week before the firm went under and its disappearance is the subject of a federal investigation. Unlike the MF Global fiasco, however, customer money never went missing from Lehman. JPMorgan is not accused of any wrongdoing in the MF Global case.
In addition to being an investment bank, JPMorgan and Bank of New York Mellon are the two big institutions that process transactions for most other Wall Street firms. As a result, JPMorgan is often at the center of financial maelstroms. So-called clearing banks have a great deal of leverage over the firms they serve, because they play central roles in their financial solvency.
This role is particularly important when a company is under duress. In the case of Lehman Brothers, JPMorgan grew nervous as questions about Lehman's capital and real estate holdings mounted in the late summer and fall of 2008. The bank asked Lehman to post more than $8 billion in collateral to continue clearing its trades, a condition that if not met might have expedited Lehman's collapse.
Those collateral calls - issued in the week before the firm collapsed - drained Lehman of money it could have used to stay afloat. And that money is the subject of a 2010 lawsuit that Lehman's estate has filed against JPMorgan that accuses the bank of hastening its demise.
State and private lawsuits have emerged after Lehman's bankruptcy, including a New York attorney general lawsuit against Lehman's auditor, Ernst & Young. But federal regulators have not previously filed Lehman-related actions - even though its collapse was at the center of the financial crisis.
The trading commission's action against JPMorgan is the latest prominent action filed by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which once had a reputation as a sleepy regulator. On Monday, the agency sued the Royal Bank of Canada, accusing it of operating a major trading scheme that it used to reap lucrative tax benefits.
The agency's enforcement division has experienced a makeover under its current chief, David Meister, a former federal prosecutor. The division filed a record 99 enforcement actions last fiscal year, 74 percent more than the previous year.
The MF Global case presents a bigger test for the agency. In the firm's final days, MF Global tapped $175 million in customer money to patch an overdrawn firm account at JPMorgan.
The bank, suspicious about the origin of the money, sought assurances from MF Global that the money did not belong to customers. In testimony before Congress last week, a JPMorgan official said that MF Global never signed a letter verifying that the transfer was legitimate.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: JPMorgan Chase's dealings with Lehman have been linked to Lehman's collapse. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA EBELHAR/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); FUTURES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); LAWYERS (74%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



100 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: How That Sausage Of Happiness Is Made

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
The quest for happiness has been the direct or indirect subject of a huge chunk of intellectual endeavor: philosophy, theology, psychology, economics and, of course, literature, which has tended to cast a jaundiced eye on the matter. ''To be stupid and selfish and to have good health are the three requirements for happiness,'' Flaubert wrote, ''though if stupidity is lacking, the others are useless.''
The world of design aims ultimately at happiness, too, through the elegance of a font or the feel of an iPhone. But a few years ago the Austrian-born graphic designer Stefan Sagmeister decided to take on the problem of happiness more directly, in much the same way he has approached ad campaigns and the celebrated album covers he has designed for David Byrne and the Rolling Stones. 
''I know how presumptuous it sounds,'' he said recently, smiling, in his offices on West 23rd Street in Chelsea. ''I also knew I had to find a way to limit it, because it's just too crazy-huge a problem. You could spend your whole life on it, as lots of philosophers have.''
Happiness is not a problem that Mr. Sagmeister has struggled with much personally. On a scale of 1 to 10, he rates himself a provisional 8. But in 2008, during a yearlong sabbatical in Indonesia that he chose to devote mostly to making furniture, he received some blunt feedback from a close friend. ''He said if I was taking a whole year off, and at the end of it I had only some tables and chairs to show, then it would be pretty skimpy, wouldn't it?'' Mr. Sagmeister said. ''And that somehow seemed true, even though I didn't want to hear it.''
So he started to work instead on an ambitious, unusual feature-length documentary, ''The Happy Film,'' a kind of delivery vehicle for several years of thinking and reading about the nature of happiness. The film is not yet finished, but it has spun off an equally unusual art -- or maybe design, or maybe amateur sociology -- exhibition, ''The Happy Show,'' that opens on Wednesday at the Institute of Contemporary Art in Philadelphia and later travels to the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles.
The approach of the show to its momentous topic can be gauged partly through one of its invitations: a thin, scrumptious-looking slice of Austrian beerwurst, vacuum-sealed in plastic, with the word ''HAPPY'' cut out of it.
''Because, when you get down to it, it seems that the two things that lead most quickly and reliably to happiness are having sex and eating rich, fatty foods,'' said Mr. Sagmeister, who worked for weeks to perfect the sausage invitation with a fellow designer, Jessica Walsh.
But Mr. Sagmeister's extensive reading -- primarily in the field of positive psychology, a movement focused on well-being, pioneered by Martin Seligman at the University of Pennsylvania and explored by fellow psychologists like Jonathan Haidt -- led him to a slightly more complex view. The conclusion he reached was that the three most widely agreed-upon routes to happiness were meditation, cognitive behavioral therapy and psychotropic drugs. He decided to spend a considerable amount of time testing each on himself, while filming the process.
''The question I wanted to answer was, could I train my mind to be happy, the same way one trains one's body?'' he said. ''In running, I know that I can train as much as I want and I'm never going to break the world record for the five miles. It's partly genetics; I'm just not built for it. But if I worked really hard, I might be able to cut my time by half. Could I do the same thing with my mind and my well-being?''
With Dr. Haidt signed on as an adviser to the film, Mr. Sagmeister began his positive-psychology self-research project in 2011 in Bali, where he went to meditate for the first time in his life, spending three months in intensive sessions.
Back in New York, he began therapy (another first), taking a camera crew to each visit. He and his therapist, Sheenah Hankin, talked about issues like the recent death of his mother, to whom he was very close, and his desire at 49 to settle down and have a family.
''The guy came in, and he was basically happy,'' Dr. Hankin said. ''That doesn't happen often here.'' The Philadelphia exhibition, which features an extended trailer for the film and a virtual funhouse of didactic interactive displays, functions much less like a design show than like an three-dimensional glimpse into Mr. Sagmeister's travels in self-improvement.
''I went in thinking I was going to be doing a project with a graphic designer, and it's only in the past few months that I've realized I'm doing a project, really, with a writer and poet,'' said Claudia Gould, the longtime director of the Institute of Contemporary Art who left last year to take over the directorship of the Jewish Museum in New York. ''Maybe he won't end up being a graphic designer when everything is said and done.''
Mr. Sagmeister isn't ready to answer that question just yet. He is willing to report, midresearch, that therapy seems much more effective than meditation in increasing overall happiness. But he will soon begin the final phase of the film -- drugs -- so the verdict is still out. The pharmaceuticals will probably be by prescription, though he had entertained the idea of sampling heroin, ''because when are you going to get a chance to try something like that in a controlled environment like this?''
In an e-mail last week, he reported that he had spoken to a friend with some experience in the area and had decided that it was a level of happiness he probably could not afford. ''Truly awful the first time, you just throw up, and by the time it actually gets to be enjoyable, you are already hooked,'' he wrote. ''I will leave it alone and stick with the pills.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stefan Sagmeister writing on an elevator door, part of his ''Happy Show'' exhibition at the Institute of Contemporary Art in Philadelphia.(C1)
Left, Stefan Sagmeister during the installation of ''The Happy Show''
above, an exhibit in the show, which opens on Wednesday. Mr. Sagmeister, a graphic designer, is also working on a documentary called ''The Happy Film,'' a kind of delivery vehicle for several years of thinking and reading about the nature of happiness. ''I know how presumptuous it sounds,'' he said recently.
 ''The Happy Show'' is very text-based. Above, an exit gets a new meaning. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN COLLERD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (73%); RELIGION (73%); OILS & FATS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); FURNITURE MFG (64%); EXHIBITIONS (64%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (75%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (90%); INDONESIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



101 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: Invitation to a Dialogue: Our Addiction to Cars

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Americans pay too little for gasoline and diesel, and our subsequent driving of 2.9 trillion miles annually is a key factor in our trade deficit, military excursions, health and obesity crisis, air and water pollution, and greenhouse emissions. We keep hoping to defeat congestion by building highways -- a counterproductive proposition. 
The United States enjoys the second-lowest gasoline prices in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development after oil-exporting Mexico and, adjusted for inflation, we don't pay that much more than what our grandparents paid in the 1920s.
While oil worldwide costs the same, other nations put higher fees on gasoline and diesel consumption. Japan's high gas taxes make its 127 million people a huge test market for energy efficiency, while our lower taxes cajoled Detroit into selling gas-guzzling S.U.V.'s.
Of course, decreasing driving in a culture famed for its ''love affair with the automobile'' is difficult. No one, yet everyone, is to blame for our national default position of key in the ignition to get anywhere, everywhere and -- often -- nowhere. Our politicians are not willing to tell us the most inconvenient of inconvenient truths.
If we'd use our cars smarter, we'd mitigate a host of problems and prevent our grandchildren from following our children in fighting wars in the Middle East.
To begin using our cars intelligently rather than habitually, we need a rational federal gasoline ''user fee'' rolled in slowly over a decade.
It's time politicians led an adult conversation with America.
RANDY SALZMAN Charlottesville, Va., April 3, 2012
The writer, a transportation demand management researcher, is writing a book, ''Yes We Can: Getting Americans to Back Away From the Steering Wheel.''
Editors' Note: We invite readers to respond to this letter for the Sunday Dialogue. We plan to publish responses and Mr. Salzman's rejoinder in the Sunday Review. E-mail: letters@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES GULLIVER HANCOCK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIESEL FUEL (90%); GASOLINE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); WRITERS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); FUEL TAX (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); OBESITY (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); ENERGY DEMAND (74%); PUBLISHING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); AIR POLLUTION (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (57%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



102 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Glen Coben

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Coben, 49, is the founder of Glen & Company, an architectural and interior design firm in New York that specializes in the hospitality and retail sectors. The company recently designed the interior of the TRYP Times Square South hotel. Before starting Glen & Company in 2000, Mr. Coben was a principal of the Rockwell Group.
Interview conducted and condensed by 
VIVIAN MARINO
Q.Do you use your middle initial ''J''?
A. No. The birth certificate has ''J'' and a period. But the ''J'' doesn't stand for anything, it's just a letter. I think it was one of my parents' rebellious things. My brother has the same thing.
Q.What would you have wanted the ''J'' to stand for?
A. I would probably say Jack. My grandfather's name was Jack.
Q.So tell me a little bit about Glen & Company.
A. We're a boutique design agency. We focus on hospitality, and that's hotels and restaurants. You can extend retail into that.
I tell people that what I do for a living is tell stories.
Q.How so?
A. About two years ago we designed a hotel called Fashion 26; it opened as a Wyndham Hotel on West 26th Street. The story of that hotel was that it's not just a hotel, it's in the fashion district. And the beauty of taking a story that really is locally relevant is that your decisions are no longer random. So when we were designing the front desk we were inspired by sewing-machine and cutting-room tables. We extrapolated it. For instance, a sewing table would have bobbins on the front desk. We had a local artist create bobbins out of spun aluminum. That created a shroud to hide the computer terminal.
Q.You also do corporate work.
We do some corporate interiors, which I refer to as branding. Sony store or Niketown are examples of branding -- they are living, breathing ads. We're doing some projects for some brands right now. We're working with a juice-cleanse group in Connecticut to create a prototype and a rollout of what's called Green and Tonic. We're also working with a fitness company, Cybex.
Q.Were you one of the creators of Niketown when you worked for Nike?
A. I helped to expand it.
Q.How many projects are you working on?
A. We have about 16 active projects on the boards or in construction. We just opened the TRYP hotel; it's a new brand that Wyndham introduced to North America. It was a really big project.
And over the next three years we're working on just under 2,000 guest rooms. It is six hotels. There are four in the financial district. Three are with the Lam Group and one is with Hersha Hospitality. The three with Lam are Four Points by Sheraton, on Platt Street, there's a loft on Ann Street and a Fairfield Inn and Suites on Fletcher Street.
Q.Sounds like you're busy.
A. I'm cautiously optimistic. During the recession we weren't affected to a great degree. Clients are expecting and demanding that we do things for less money and do them quicker. A big firm has a harder time navigating those waters than a smaller firm like ours. And our fees are lower.
Q.You were a principal at the Rockwell Group. Why did you leave to start your own business?
A. I felt like if I didn't do it then, I would probably regret not having done it. This was in 2000. If it didn't work out I knew I could probably get a job somewhere else. This month it'll be 12 years.
Q.What are your goals for the company?
A. I would love to do the overall structure -- interior and exterior -- of hotels. We're doing a hotel right now in Madison, Conn. -- the Madison Beach Hotel, where we did the entire hotel. It should be opening the beginning of May. It's 68,000 square feet, right on the Long Island Sound, and it is 33 guest rooms. It has a banquet facility, a spa and a couple of restaurants.
I would also like to get into residential -- what we do for the hotel world. Developers should take a page out of the hotel development handbook and understand the guest amenities that could be brought to the table. And I would love to get involved with the renovation of some of the commercial lobbies.
Q.Where do you get your inspiration?
A. It's seldom that I don't have a sketch book with me. I'm out there and I'll look around, and if I hear about a place I'll pop in, or if I'm walking by a construction site I'll walk into the construction site. Inspiration comes in the craziest places.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (90%); BRANDING (89%); SHOE STORES (87%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (68%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



103 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Development Thrives in the Hudson Rail Yards

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
A 200-unit rental building will begin rising later this year at 509 West 38th Street west of 10th Avenue, one of dozens of developments that are being planned in the Hudson Yards district over the next several years.
With the No. 7 subway extension on schedule to open next December, the third section of the High Line moving ahead and residential and commercial development within the rail yards themselves (from 30th to 33rd Streets, west of 10th Avenue) advancing, the neighborhood's transformation is starting to come into focus after a city rezoning to residential and commercial from manufacturing. 
''The activity really began to pick up about six months ago when the announcement that the extension of the No. 7 subway line was on budget and, more importantly, on time,'' said Robert A. Knakal, the chairman of the brokerage firm Massey Knakal. The line will curve through the yards area; it currently ends at Eighth Avenue.
The decision by the luxury brand Coach to anchor the first office tower within the rail yards has further spurred activity, Mr. Knakal said, adding, ''This is the most active period we have seen since the Hudson Rail Yards project was first announced.''
Since the main rezoning of the area from 28th to 43rd Streets and west of Eighth Avenue in 2005, more than 5,000 apartments have been built and more than $5 billion in private development has poured into the area, according to the Hudson Yards Development Corporation, a city entity overseeing the area's redevelopment.
Iliad Development hopes to break ground in the fourth quarter on the building on 38th Street, which will have 200 rental apartments, mostly studios and one-bedrooms. Ismael Leyva Architects is the architect of record and is responsible for the layouts, while BKSK Architects is designing the brick and glass facade. AvroKO, the firm that has designed restaurants like Beauty & Essex on the Lower East Side, is designing the lobby and apartment interiors. The 30-story building will also include an outdoor roof garden, a screening room, a party room and a gym.
The building will front the Hudson Yards Boulevard, a parklike thoroughfare that is planned to bisect the area, and will have views of the next phase of Hudson River Park, if it is built.
The 2005 rezoning allows developers to pay into a district improvement fund in exchange for additional air rights for a ''community facility,'' like a performance space or museum. Buying the air rights raises the overall height of the building and pushes skyward the apartments that sit atop the space, allowing for better views and potentially higher rents.
The Iliad project hopes to take advantage of this rezoning bonus, and hired the brokerage firm CBRE to find a community facility as a tenant for the base of the building. The facility would take up a portion of the ground floor and Floors 2 through 4, said Edward E. Midgley, a senior vice president at CBRE, who is representing the building with his partner, Timothy E. Sheehan, also a senior vice president.
''We believe it is a good return on our investment to have a community facility in the building,'' said Eric Birnbaum, a principal at Iliad, ''because as the area continues to gentrify, bringing in this kind of use makes for a better neighborhood which can, in the long run, bring in higher rents for the building.''
The zoning also requires 6,000 square feet of retail space, which could be occupied by a museum gift shop or cafe, for example. The site also has a valuable billboard that faces out to the Lincoln Tunnel entrance. The billboard space will be available to a tenant. CBRE has been marketing the building for about five weeks, Mr. Midgley said.
Should Iliad be unsuccessful in finding a nonprofit tenant for a community facility, it has also retained the brokerage firm Corcoran Wexler, which specializes in medical tenants. ''Our fallback position is potentially to have a medical-related facility at the site,'' Mr. Midgley said.
But not every developer is ready to begin building. Sherwood Equities, for example, recently bought its third parcel in the neighborhood, but is sitting tight for now.
''I think the economy needs to get a bit more traction before we start building on the sites,'' said Jeffrey Katz, the chief executive of Sherwood Equities, ''maybe another year or so, but it is hard to predict an exact time frame.''
Sherwood paid $43.5 million for 360 10th Avenue, a vacant lot at the third section of the High Line that can be developed into nearly 400,000 square feet of commercial and 200,000 square feet of residential space. It also owns a superblock on the west side of 10th Avenue between 34th and 35th Street that can be developed into 2.5 million square feet of commercial space; and a parcel on the east side of 10th Avenue between 35th and 36th street that can be converted into a 200-unit apartment building, Mr. Katz said.
Still, while it may be premature to begin construction, Mr. Katz said competition for good sites in the area was keen, with any parcel coming up for sale attracting a number of bidders. He said he went into contract and closed on 360 10th in fewer than 10 days. And according to Massey Knakal, which represented the seller on the deal, the sale was the largest development site sold last year in New York City.
''This neighborhood is a great bet,'' Mr. Birnbaum said, ''because what will ultimately happen, and what we already seeing to some extent, is that people getting priced out of Chelsea and the High Line area will move further north, directly toward us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A 200-unit rental building is planned at 509 West 38th Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN BLACK/ARCHTAGON) MAPS
 CHART: New Projects in Hudson Yards: The area was rezoned to accommodate residential and office properties in 2005. Here are some of the projects planned for the next decade. (Source: Massey Knakal) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ZONING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); RESTAURANTS (61%); LUXURY GOODS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



104 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Detroit, Staggering With Debt, Now Struggles With a Rescue Plan

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Both time and cash are running out, yet plans for solving this city's financial crisis seem to grow only more tangled by the day.
Under a state statute, Gov. Rick Snyder of Michigan must decide by Thursday whether to set in motion a process that would assign an emergency manager to take control of the finances of Detroit, which is mired in $12 billion in long-term liabilities and has said it could run out of money as early as next month.
For months, the governor, the mayor and the City Council have made it clear that they want to avoid a step as drastic as bringing an outside manager to run Michigan's largest city. But efforts to find a solution remained snarled in chaotic legal and political battles late Tuesday, and a clear end did not appear in sight. 
For some here, hopes of avoiding an emergency manager -- or, worse yet, plunging into default -- are pinned on a consent agreement with the state. This agreement would grant state officials significant oversight of the city's books and allow Detroit to force cheaper terms in the contracts of unionized city workers by summer as a way to save money. Supporters of the notion, which is comparable to arrangements that have been tried in other states with cities on the edge of bankruptcy, view it as the best choice in an array of miserable options.
''This would leave the mayor in place, the Council in place, the City Charter in place,'' said Gary Brown, the City Council's president pro tem, who said he supports a proposed agreement. ''Ordinary Detroiters don't care who turns the lights on. They just want the lights on.''
But others, including those in a crowd that has filled this city's Council meeting room in recent days, view the agreement as an attack on unions. The city employee unions have met in marathon sessions in the last few months with Detroit officials on contract concessions, only to learn that a new state deal might mean deeper cuts. Other critics said the proposed agreement with the state amounted to handing over control of Detroit -- and its elected representatives -- to Lansing, the state capital, and with relatively few promises of direct financial support from the state in exchange.
''We see Detroit as being stolen,'' one angry resident told the City Council on Tuesday.
A divided, sometimes emotional Council delayed an expected vote on the consent agreement until at least late Wednesday, citing legal problems that had suddenly emerged in two courthouses.
State officials said they were seeking an expedited appeal to a ruling that at least for the moment was preventing a state review panel from signing off on the city-state agreement. And in federal court, a judge was considering a demand from unions to block the entire deal. They argued that city officials were legally bound to follow through on labor deals they had tentatively struck in recent months rather than allowing provisions of a separate state consent agreement. The proposed agreement would reopen labor talks and allow sharp cuts, including the possibility of privatizing some city services and consolidating departments.
Under terms of the agreement, a nine-member financial advisory board would be appointed to guide the city, which would be required to swiftly report any budget shortfalls and to hire a ''program management director'' to help oversee reforms. Some members of the advisory board would be picked by the state, and others by the city, while the program management director would be picked from among candidates approved by the governor.
Detroit's troubles are years in the making. It has not helped that the city lost 25 percent of its population in the last decade. But the seriousness of the city's crisis came into view late last year, and as Mayor Dave Bing rushed to get union concessions that could help solve the problem, Governor Snyder ordered a state review of the entire matter.
In the end, a state review team found that even the city's tentative union deals did not save as much as the city had projected. By Tuesday night, the fate of Detroit's financial future seemed as murky as ever, Council President Charles Pugh shrugging when asked whether a consent agreement would win the Council's blessing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In a city where so much of the population has left, abandoned houses are a common sight. At left, the City Council president, Charles Pugh, at the Council's meeting on Tuesday. A city resident, Sandra Hines, below left, addressed the Council. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES
 FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (87%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%)

PERSON: RICK SNYDER (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); LANSING, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



105 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Car Sales Rose in March, Lifting 2012 Forecasts

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Automakers on Tuesday reported strong sales across the board in March, pushing the industry to its best quarter since before the recession, even though gasoline prices climbed to more than $4 a gallon in many states.
Nissan, Hyundai and Kia each posted record sales last month, while Chrysler and Volkswagen had gains of more than 30 percent compared with a year earlier. The Ford Motor Company had its best month in five years.
The only major carmaker to report a decline was Honda, whose sales slipped 5 percent. 
The industry's unexpectedly strong performance in the first quarter has prompted automakers to begin planning for production increases to meet demand, though they remain cautious about overreacting.
Many analysts say they are confident that United States sales for all of 2012 will surpass 14 million vehicles, a target that seemed overly optimistic several months ago. In contrast, industry sales were 12.8 million last year and 10.4 million in 2009.
Toyota adjusted its 2012 forecast to ''a little bit more than 14 million'' from its previous projection of 13.6 million, said Jeff Bracken, vice president for Toyota division sales. The research firm IHS Automotive on Tuesday raised its full-year forecast to 14.2 million, from an earlier estimate of 14 million.
''With key economic indicators remaining upbeat, we see this momentum continuing into the months ahead,'' Mr. Bracken said in a conference call with reporters.
The industry's seasonally adjusted, annualized selling rate increased to 14.4 million in March, from 13.1 million a year ago, according to the industry tracking firm Autodata. The selling rate for the first quarter was 14.5 million, the highest since 2008.
Although gas prices did not derail the industry's growth, they did encourage more buyers to choose small cars, which accounted for almost a quarter of all sales.
General Motors, whose sales rose 12 percent, said March was the first month ever that it had sold more than 100,000 vehicles with highway fuel-economy ratings of at least 30 miles per gallon. They represented about 40 percent of G.M.'s sales.
March was the best month yet for G.M.'s plug-in hybrid, the Chevrolet Volt, which posted sales of 2,289, doubling its February results. Nearly all of G.M.'s other high-mileage vehicles were gas-powered models, which have become considerably more efficient in recent years.
Toyota, which recorded a 15 percent increase, said 60 percent of the vehicles it sold could achieve 30 miles per gallon. It said sales of hybrids jumped 49 percent, to about one in every five vehicles driven off dealership lots.
But unlike during past run-ups in gas prices, automakers say their customers are not rushing out in search of the smallest cars. They also are paying more for vehicles than ever before. The average price buyers paid rose 7 percent from a year ago, to $30,748, a record, according to the automotive research firm TrueCar.com.
Another change this year is that business is increasing for the Detroit automakers as consumers seek more efficient cars, whereas many people used to instinctively seek relief by focusing on Japanese brands.
''Consumers aren't overreacting to gas price rises,'' said Don Johnson, G.M.'s vice president for United States sales operations. ''They're not panicking and going from a full-size pickup to a small car that doesn't give them the same utility.''
Over all, automakers sold more than 1.4 million vehicles in March, about 13 percent more than a year ago and the most since 2007. Unseasonably warm weather across much of the country helped draw shoppers to dealerships, as did declining unemployment, new models like a smaller version of the Toyota Prius hybrid car, and wider availability of auto financing.
''After delaying purchases over the last couple of years, consumers are eager to jump into the new-car market,'' said Jessica Caldwell, senior analyst with the automotive research firm Edmunds.com. ''Vehicle trade-in rates have achieved sustained highs in recent months, which suggests that consumers have decided that they've held on to their cars for too long. And with the average credit score for new-car buyers at its lowest level since the first half of 2008, the market is clearly becoming a friendlier place for all buyers.''
March was the third consecutive month in which the average trade-in vehicle was more than six years old, a record high, Ms. Caldwell said.
That statistic means dealerships are seeing customers who had held onto their cars for a long time because they were unable to obtain financing or felt too uncertain about their finances for a big-ticket purchase until now.
For Chrysler, which posted a 34 percent increase, March was the 24th consecutive month of year-over-year gains. Sales of Volkswagens were up 35 percent, resulting in the maker's best March and first quarter since 1973.
Ford said its sales rose 5 percent and noted that its gains were not limited to small cars. Sales of its F-series pickup increased 9 percent.
Analysts are watching gas prices closely to see if and when they start to weigh on sales. According to the AAA motor club, the average price of regular gas is about $3.92 a gallon, 7 percent higher than a year ago.
''Each month of strong sales brings with it increased optimism that the pace of growth represents a true recovery for the sector,'' said John Humphrey, senior vice president for global automotive operations at J. D. Power & Associates.
Separately, AutoNation, the nation's largest dealership chain, said retail sales at its stores rose 15 percent in March compared with the same month a year ago. It said sales increased 26 percent for domestic brands, 10 percent for import brands and 10 percent for luxury vehicles.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Car shoppers at a Ford dealership in Glendale, Calif. Analysts expect United States auto sales to top 14 million this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/GETTY IMAGES)
Ford Focus
Honda Accord CHARTS: How the Industry Fared
How the Automakers Fared
 Most Popular Cars and Trucks (Source: MotorIntelligence.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); RECESSION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



106 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Regulators Move Closer to Oversight of Nonbanks

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Financial Stability Oversight Council, the country's top financial regulatory body, moved closer on Tuesday to increasing its oversight of nonbank financial institutions, like hedge funds, private equity firms and insurers.
The 10-member council, headed by the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, voted unanimously to adopt a rule that will designate some of those firms as ''systemically important financial institutions,'' and put them under stronger regulatory supervision.
The rule ''is an important tool provided in Dodd-Frank for extending the perimeter of transparency, oversight and prudential supervision over parts of the financial system that can be a particularly important source of credit to the economy and potentially important source of risk,'' Mr. Geithner said during the 10-minute meeting. 
The oversight council will now begin a three-part process of determining which firms are subject to additional scrutiny from regulators. The Dodd-Frank financial regulatory reform law, which passed in the summer of 2010, automatically put banks with more than $50 billion in assets under stricter standards.
Nonbank firms, like hedge funds, will be evaluated one by one. The first step is to ''narrow the universe of nonbank financial companies to a smaller set'' for closer analysis, the rule says.
Regulators will initially examine all nonbank firms with more than $50 billion in assets. Those that cross any one of a number of other thresholds -- holding more than $3.5 billion in derivative liabilities, $20 billion in debt, or having high leverage ratios, for instance -- would move on to another round of assessment.
In that second stage, the council will perform a ''comprehensive analysis'' of each firm, using public and regulatory data to give a fuller picture of its systemic importance and riskiness.
Some firms will move onto a third stage, when the council will ask them for more information on their books.
Then, the council will vote on each firm. If two-thirds of the regulators on the board, including the chairman, deem a firm ''systemically important,'' it will be subject to new rules and oversight. Firms will have the chance to appeal the decision.
The council left itself space to evaluate firms even if they do not meet the initial criteria for consideration. ''The council does not believe that a determination decision can be reduced to a formula,'' it said in the rule, affirming its ability to analyze a firm ''irrespective of whether such company meets the thresholds.''
The goal of the law is to better monitor big, risky firms that might fall through the regulatory cracks. In 2008, insurers like A.I.G. and nonbank firms like Lehman Brothers were instrumental in precipitating the financial crisis and credit squeeze.
''There will not be any more large, complex, systemically critical firms that have no oversight,'' the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, who is a member of the council, said in a lecture at George Washington University at the end of March. ''Those gaps are getting closed. We won't have the situation we had before the crisis.''
The council has not yet enumerated exactly what additional oversight and standards systemically risky nonbank firms might face. ''The council does not believe it is necessary or appropriate to postpone the adoption of this rule or the interpretive guidance until these other regulatory actions are completed,'' it said.
Financial firms and business groups have lobbied hard against the new rule, arguing it should be narrowly defined to avoid burdening too many companies with additional regulatory requirements.
But other groups do not believe that it goes far enough.
''It's a very big disappointment,'' said Dennis M. Kelleher, the president of Better Markets, a nonprofit group that pushes for financial regulatory reform. ''They have proposed a rule that will almost certainly result in most of the shadow banking system not being regulated.''
Mr. Kelleher said that a number of firms that helped precipitate the crisis in 2008, like money market funds, would fail to be subject to the additional scrutiny as the rule is currently written. He said smaller but highly interconnected or otherwise important firms still pose a risk. ''If you only worry about the big dogs,'' Mr. Kelleher said, ''you're nonetheless going to get chewed to death by the other dogs.''
Companies that might be deemed systemically important include hedge funds like Paulson & Company, mutual fund companies like BlackRock, investment vehicles like Berkshire Hathaway and financiers like GE Capital.
It is unclear when the nonbank financial firms will be designated as systemically important and formally subject to new regulation.
Mr. Geithner said that the council will complete the first round of evaluations this year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Gary Gensler, head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Timothy Geithner, Treasury secretary
Ben Bernanke, Federal Reserve chief
Martin Gruenberg, acting head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Commission
 and Mary L. Schapiro, chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, at the Financial Stability Oversight Council meeting on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); INSURANCE (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (67%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (88%); BEN BERNANKE (54%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



107 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: The Promise Of Today's Factory Jobs

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
To hear Mike Bink, one might believe American manufacturing is about to recapture its lost glory.
Master Lock, which has made locks in Milwaukee since 1921, has brought 100 jobs back from China over the last year and a half. And Mr. Bink, who has worked at the plant for 33 years and heads the United Auto Workers local, is sure more will follow. ''They are making a lot of capital investment; buying a lot of new equipment,'' he said. ''That will create more jobs.''
Master Lock's story dovetails nicely with the budding upturn in manufacturing employment, which has rekindled hope across a Rust Belt pummeled by 30 years of job loss. Nationwide, factories have added 400,000 jobs in the last two years, the first sustained bout of growth since the 1990s, replacing about a fifth of the positions lost during the recession. Other companies, from Otis to General Electric, are bringing home jobs once thought lost for good. 
Mr. Bink's enthusiasm has echoed from the factory floor all the way to Washington. During his State of the Union Message, President Obama wove Master Lock's tale of repatriated jobs into a narrative of recovery that could serve him well in November. ''We have a huge opportunity, at this moment, to bring manufacturing back,'' the president said. ''But we have to seize it.''
To do so, his administration has proposed a pinata of tax breaks and incentives intended to transform the incipient movement into a new golden age for factory jobs.
Things have not looked this promising for manufacturing jobs in a long while. Rising costs in China -- where the government is letting the currency gain against the dollar and wages are rising at a double-digit pace -- are making it more attractive for American companies to produce at home. Expensive oil adds to the cost by pushing up the price of freight.
Yet a revolution in manufacturing employment seems far-fetched. Most of the factory jobs lost over the last three decades in this country are gone for good. In truth, they are not even very good jobs.
As much as the administration needs a jobs strategy, one narrowly focused on manufacturing is unlikely to deliver.
Much of the anxiety about factory jobs is based on the misconception that job losses have been due to a sclerotic manufacturing sector, unable to compete against cheap imports. Until the Great Recession clobbered the world economy, manufacturing production was actually holding its own. Real value added in manufacturing, the most precise measure of its contribution to the economy, has grown by more than two thirds since its heyday in 1979, when manufacturing employed almost 20 million Americans -- eight million more than today.
American companies make a smaller share of the world's stuff, of course. But what else could one expect? Thirty years ago China made very little of anything. Today its factory output is almost 20 percent of world production and about 15 percent of manufacturing value added.
What's surprising is how little the United States lost in that time. American manufacturers contribute more than a fifth to global value added.
Manufacturers are shedding jobs around the industrial world. Germany lost more than a fifth of its factory jobs from 1991 to 2007, according to the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, about the same share as the United States. Japan -- the manufacturing behemoth of the 1980s -- lost a third.
This was partly because of China's arrival on the world scene after it joined the World Trade Organization in 2001. Since then, China has gained nearly 40 million factory jobs. But something else happened too: companies across the developed world invested in labor-saving technology.
Consider Master Lock. Its Milwaukee plant is operating at capacity for the first time in 15 years, before it started sending work overseas. It is producing much more stuff than it did back then. But it is doing so with 412 workers -- about 750 fewer than it had 15 years ago.
''They used to throw bodies at something to get the job done,'' said Ron McInroy, the U.A.W.'s head for the region encompassing Milwaukee. ''Now they look at the best utilization of manpower and the best utilization of machines.''
So it is across the economy. In his forthcoming book, ''The New Geography of Jobs,'' the University of California, Berkeley, economist Enrico Moretti points out that the average American factory worker makes $180,000 worth of goods a year, more than three times what he produced in 1978, in today's dollars.
It may not matter to factory workers who lost their jobs. Whether forced out because an employer moved production to China or because a fancy new machine makes it easier to compete against a rival in China, the job is gone.
Still, the distinction is important. Without an understanding of the forces at work, policy makers' attempts to bolster manufacturing could backfire.
One thing is clear. Most of the jobs lost to China and other poor countries cannot ''come back.'' They don't pay anywhere near enough. And they don't exist here anymore anyway.
The factory jobs we really want will be fewer and will require more education. But they will pay more.
Remember agriculture? In the 1960s, plant scientists at the University of California, Davis, developed an oblong tomato that ripened uniformly, and its engineers developed a machine to harvest it with one pass through the fields. By the 1970s the number of workers hired for the tomato harvest in California had fallen by 90 percent.
In the book ''Promise Unfulfilled,'' Philip Martin, an economist at the university, says that in 1979 the worker advocacy group California Rural Legal Assistance sued the university for using public money on research that helped agribusiness at the expense of farm workers. And in 1980, Jimmy Carter's agriculture secretary, Bob Bergland, declared that the government wouldn't finance any more projects aimed at replacing ''an adequate and willing work force with machines.''
It's hard to say that workers won this battle, however. After Mr. Bergland pulled the plug, research on agricultural mechanization came to a near-halt. Yet farm work today remains probably the worst paid, most grueling job in the United States.
A tricky thing to understand is that most jobs in the United States are created in areas of the economy not exposed to global competition. They are nannies and doctors, lawyers and roofers. In a recent study, the Nobel laureate Mike Spence and Sandile Hlatshwayo of New York University found that the part of the economy that does not have foreign competitors added 27.3 million jobs from 1990 to 2008. The sector that competes in global markets added virtually none.
This doesn't mean the administration should ignore manufacturing. We need world-class, innovative industries that compete in global markets. They won't add a ton of jobs precisely because they must stay lean to compete. But they will pay for those jobs.
The 33,000 Apple workers in Cupertino, Calif., sustain 171,000 additional jobs in the metropolitan area, Mr. Moretti estimates.
This pattern suggests, however, that a jobs strategy should take care not to blunt the edge of our most competitive firms. If outsourcing sharpens their edge on world markets, punishing then for doing so could destroy American jobs.
More important, perhaps, manufacturing is not the nation's only cutting-edge industry. Many of the most innovative firms are not manufacturers but service companies. Apple is very competitive. But so are the companies that design applications running on its iPhones and iPads. Hollywood studios and marketing companies are big exporters. These firms need highly trained workers and pay high wages.
Mr. Moretti says each job in an ''innovation'' industry, broadly understood, creates five other local jobs, about three times the number for an average job in manufacturing. Two of them are highly paid professional positions and three are low-paid jobs as waiters or clerks.
Innovation -- not manufacturing --has always propelled this country's progress. A strategy to reward manufacturers who increase their payroll in the United States may not be as effective as one to support the firms whose creations -- whether physical stuff or immaterial services -- can conquer world markets and pay for the jobs of the rest of us.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maurcie Johnson, left, and Diandre Jackson stacked locks at the Master Lock plant in Milwaukee in January. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY MANIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B9) CHART: The World's Factories: China will soon be the world's biggest manufacturer. But the United States is holding its own. (Source: United Nations) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FACTORY WORKERS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); DISMISSALS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); US PRESIDENTS (66%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (58%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (91%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



108 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: The Child of a Lost War Who Gave Comics an R Rating

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

 BODY:
To nonaficionados, Japanese comic books, or manga, typically celebrate vampire-hunting beauties or feisty schoolgirls, tentacled monsters or technology-crazed teenagers. But to the graphic artist Yoshihiro Tatsumi and his peers in the late 1950s, they offered an opportunity to explore darker, more sophisticated stories about postwar Japan -- stories so adult that they required a brand-new name: gekiga. 
In ''Tatsumi,'' the director Eric Khoo incorporates five of these stories, all written in the 1970s, into an animated tribute that seeks to vivify this artist's controversial, fearless work. It's potent stuff, delving into pornography, incest, murder and mutilation in the company of alienated men and unhappy, sometimes cruel women. Resonating with the deeply felt shame of a lost war (Mr. Tatsumi was 10 when the atom bomb fell on Hiroshima), these twisted and often touching tales express their author's rage at a booming economy that failed to lift every boat.
''I vomited it out in stories,'' he tells us in the mostly gentle narration that accompanies the film's biographical segments, excerpted from his autobiography, ''A Drifting Life.'' Rendered in rather wishy-washy pastels, these segments offer only broad personal details, including how he drew comics at a young age to support his poor family and dealt with the envy of his sickly brother.
By contrast, the moody, mostly black-and-white samples of his art have a tough urgency that leaps from the screen: from the harrowing first story, set in a razed Hiroshima, to the closing tale of a prostitute who has been betrayed one too many times, they mold pulpy drama and moral complexity into a transfixing whole. Capturing the mood of a troubled time, ''Tatsumi'' is a fine, if frustratingly indistinct, portrait of an artist ripe for rediscovery.
Tatsumi
Opens on Wednesday in Manhattan.
Written and directed by Eric Khoo, based on ''A Drifting Life'' and other works by Yoshihiro Tatsumi; creative animation director, Phil Mitchell; music by Christopher Khoo; art director, Widhi Saputro; produced by Tan Fong Cheng, Mr. Mitchell, Freddie Yeo and Eric Khoo; released by the Match Factory. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, Museum of Modern Art. In Japanese, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes. This film is not rated.
WITH THE VOICES OF: Tetsuya Bessho and Yoshihiro Tatsumi.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The animated documentary ''Tatsumi'' looks at how the graphic artist Yoshihiro Tatsumi led Japanese comics into a darker, more sophisticated age. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZHAO WEI FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTS (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CONTENT RATINGS (87%); ANIMATION (78%); WRITERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); PORNOGRAPHY (73%); FAMILY (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%); CHUGOKU, JAPAN (55%) JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



109 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: Mali Junta Calls National Meeting

BYLINE: By AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE; Alan Cowell contributed reporting from London and J. David Goodman from New York.

 BODY:
BAMAKO, Mali (Agence France-Presse) -- Mali's junta called on Tuesday for a national meeting on the country's future as it seeks a way out of a growing crisis. 
Capt. Amadou Haya Sanogo, the leader of the coup that ousted the president last month, said he was calling ''the entire political class and all civil society actors'' to a national convention on Thursday. He said the meeting would determine ''what will be best for the country in a consensual, democratic fashion.''
At a news conference in the capital, Bamako, he also said that the ousted president, Amadou Toumani Toure, could be prosecuted for ''high treason and financial wrongdoing.''
Captain Sanogo has refused demands from a regional bloc, the Economic Community of West African States, to step down. The bloc imposed sanctions on Mali on Monday, blocking its borders to all but humanitarian trade and freezing its regional bank accounts. The African Union has also imposed a travel ban and an asset freeze to try to press the coup leaders.
On Tuesday, the United States imposed similar measures, banning travel by the coup leaders and their family members.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUPS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); TREASON (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (68%)

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES (55%); AFRICAN UNION (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MALI (97%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



110 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Economic Distress Rises in Iran as Sanctions Tighten Knot, and Plans for Talks May Stall

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE; Artin Afkhami contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The Iran sanctions effort led by the United States appeared to be causing new fractures in the Iranian economy on Tuesday, with leading oil companies in South Africa and Greece suspending imports of Iran's crude oil, further signs of emergency self-reliance emerging in Iran, and an influential former Iranian president publicly challenging his country's anti-American stoicism.
The latest signs of economic distress came as new questions arose about the date and location for resumed talks between Iran and the so-called P5-plus 1 countries -- the five permanent members of the Security Council plus Germany -- over Iran's uranium enrichment activities. Iran contends the activities are peaceful but its adversaries suspect they are a cover to develop the capability to make nuclear weapons. 
The talks, suspended more than a year ago, are supposed to resume in less than two weeks, but a host country has not been finalized, and Iranian news reports have suggested that the April 13 date may be changed.
Iran has called the sanctions, aimed at stopping its uranium enrichment, a bullying tactic by the West that is doomed to fail. At the same time, Iranian leaders have acknowledged that the sanctions are causing deprivations in the country by severely restricting international financial transactions and sales of crude oil, Iran's main export. The European Union will tighten the sanctions further starting July 1 with an embargo of Iranian crude oil.
In South Africa, Engen Petroleum, which has been South Africa's biggest buyer of Iranian oil and is a leading marketer and refiner of petroleum products throughout southern Africa, said Tuesday it was no longer Iran's customer. ''Engen has suspended imports from Iran and our contingency sources are in play,'' a company spokeswoman, Tania Landsberg, said in an email, confirming press reports of Engen's decision.
South Africa, which historically has relied on Iran for a quarter of its imports, had been sending mixed messages regarding Western pressure to reduce Iranian purchases, with recent data suggesting that the country has been buying more crude oil from Iran this year. Engen's decision to buy elsewhere suggested that the Western pressure was working.
In Greece, Hellenic Petroleum, the country's leading refiner, also suspended purchases of Iranian crude oil -- not because of the impending European Union embargo, but because banking payments to Iran have been rendered unworkable by the financial sanctions already in place, Reuters reported.
Those financial sanctions, including the recent expulsion of Iran's central bank from a global financial communications network, have reverberated through Iran's economy, most notably contributing to a sharp drop in the value of Iran's currency, the rial, against the dollar. The pressure on the currency, which has caused the price of imported goods to soar in Iran, was an underlying theme in a New Year's message by Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the supreme leader, strongly urging Iranians to buy only goods made in Iran.
In what appeared to be a step toward enforcing the ayatollah's exhortation, Iranian trade authorities have now banned 600 imported items. The ban, reported by Sharq, a reformist Iranian newspaper, did not specify the items but quoted Hamid Safdel, director of Iran's Trade Promotion Organization, as saying Iranian manufacturers also make those items, rendering the imports unnecessary.
While Iranian leaders have presented a unified front of hostility to the sanctions, a disagreement surfaced on Tuesday, when Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, a former president who is now the chairman of the Expediency Council, an advisory panel to the supreme leader, suggested that Iran had erred by failing to befriend Saudi Arabia, the Middle East's leading oil producer.
The Saudis, who are overwhelmingly Sunni Muslims and harbor wariness toward the Shiite majority in Iran, have pledged to increase their exports to compensate for any supply shortfall caused by the Iranian oil embargo. Saudi cooperation is crucial to the West's strategy.
''If we had good relations with Saudi Arabia, would the West have been able to impose sanctions?'' Mr. Rafsanjani said in the quarterly International Studies Journal, as translated by Agence France-Presse.
Mr. Rafsanjani, whose stature as a pragmatic force in Iranian politics diminished in recent years but now seems to be reviving, also reiterated his longstanding suggestion that Iran restore diplomatic relations with the United States, estranged since the 1979 revolution. His view is directly at odds with that of Ayatollah Khamenei, who appears to see any conciliatory gesture as a sign of weakness.
''''The meaning of negotiation is not that we submit to them,'' Mr. Rafsanjani wrote in what seemed a rejoinder to the ayatollah. ''We negotiate, and if they accept our positions or we accept theirs, then it is done.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (83%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); IMPORT PRICES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (54%)

COMPANY: HELLENIC PETROLEUM SA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: HLPD (LSE) (52%); ELPE (ATH) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (52%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); SIC5541 GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS (52%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GREECE (88%); GERMANY (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



111 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Federal Reserve Minutes Suggest No Bold Action

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The prospect that the Federal Reserve will begin a fourth round of asset purchases appears to be fading as the economy improves. The members of the Fed's policy-making committee barely discussed new efforts to bolster growth during their most recent meeting in mid-March, according to an account of that meeting released by the Fed on Tuesday.
While the committee remains committed to its existing efforts to stimulate growth, the account said that there was no support for additional measures like new asset purchases unless ''the economy lost momentum'' or inflation settled below the 2 percent annual rate the central bank considers healthy. 
The account suggested the committee was unlikely to announce any new measures after its meeting scheduled for this month, as some investors had expected. And markets responded as if the Fed had pulled back on the reins of the economy. Stock market indices fell, while the interest rates on Treasury securities climbed. The reaction was brief, however, and some analysts cautioned against overreaction, noting the Federal Open Market Committee could still announce new steps this year.
Equities and Treasury markets took a dim view of the report, as the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index each fell nearly one half of a percentage point. Treasury prices declined, pushing interest rates up 11/32 of a percentage point.
''The lack of discussion over a possible sterilized asset purchase program does not mean that it won't happen, just that while the data is still firming, there is little incentive to push for something,'' Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist at the investment bank Mizuho USA, said in a note to clients Tuesday. ''I still expect that the data will give the F.O.M.C. the opportunity to do more.''
The Fed is not shelving asset purchases because it is overjoyed about the state of the economy. To the contrary, it retains a relatively dour outlook, predicting moderate growth and persistent unemployment for years to come.
The committee was not impressed by recent signs of faster growth, according to the minutes, which are released three weeks after each meeting.
''While a few participants indicated that their expectations for real GDP growth for 2012 had risen somewhat, most participants did not interpret the recent economic and financial information as pointing to a material revision to the outlook for 2013 and 2014,'' according to the document, which is a summary rather than a transcript.
The Fed's staff, which prepares a separate forecast respected for its accuracy, did raise its estimate of medium-term growth ''somewhat higher.''
It cited three reasons: a better global outlook as Europe continues to avoid a crisis; the weakness of the dollar, which lifts exports; and the rising stock market.
Fed officials are particularly concerned about the recent rate of job growth. The Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said recently that the economy was not growing fast enough to sustain the trend. The minutes show other officials shared that view.
The dwindling support for new measures is all the more striking in the context of these concerns, but the minutes offer no explanation for the Fed's position.
Inflation is one likely restraint on new measures. The Fed predicts that inflation will continue to rise at roughly 2 percent a year, the rate it considers healthy. That serves as a justification for its existing policies, but it also limits the Fed's willingness to do more.
The minutes reflect the Fed's position that it does not view oil prices as a threat to this balancing act. The document notes that other commodity prices are not climbing alongside oil prices, as they did when oil prices rose last year, suggesting that the increase is the result of geopolitical concerns rather than growth pressures. The Fed continues to predict the impact on inflation will be temporary.
The minutes also spell out a new line of attack by some critics. They have argued that the Fed's tools for enhancing growth are ineffective and risk raising the inflation rate. Now they are advancing the argument that the maximum rate of sustainable growth has declined and as a result the Fed's efforts may cause the economy to overheat.
But Mr. Bernanke has rejected that argument, maintaining that the economy can still return to its long-term growth rate of about 3 percent a year. And most observers believe he has the support to adopt new measures if he so chooses.
The Fed affirmed its plans to complete its third round of asset purchases in June, and the minutes make clear it remains committed to its existing efforts to stimulate growth, including holding short-term interest rates near zero and maintaining a huge investment portfolio to further reduce long-term rates.
The committee is scheduled to hold its next meeting April 24-25.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); STATISTICS (74%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



112 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Factory Orders Rebound

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Orders for factory goods in the United States rebounded in February, the Commerce Department said on Tuesday. The report suggested that manufacturing held on to some momentum early in the year despite signs of slower growth. 
The department said new orders for manufactured goods rose 1.3 percent, just below the 1.5 percent gain expected by private forecasters in a Reuters poll.
Many economists said the expiration of some tax breaks on capital spending at the end of 2011 led businesses to bring forward investments.
Indeed, January's decline was revised downward to 1.1 percent from a previously reported fall of 1 percent.
Still, February's gain was nearly as high as the 1.4 percent rise in orders in December. Factory orders have now risen in three of the last four months.
Orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft -- a closely watched category because it is taken as a sign of future spending plans by businesses -- rose 1.7 percent in February. That was a bigger increase than 1.2 percent gain reported in an preliminary estimate.
Shipments for this category climbed 1.4 percent.
Business spending and manufacturing have been drivers of the recovery since the 2007-9 recession.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); FACTORY ORDERS (94%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); NEW ORDERS (79%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); RECESSION (77%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



113 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: In Wisconsin Exit Polls, Hints at the Leanings of November Voters

BYLINE: By ALLISON KOPICKI

 BODY:
The fairly moderate electorate in Wisconsin provides a particular window into swing state characteristics that are being intensely studied by both parties as they eye the general election cycle later this year.
In Tuesday's Republican primary, voters chose the economy as more important than social issues and the ability to defeat President Obama as the top qualification in a candidate.
And as the Republican nominating process begins to wend its way into the general election race, about 8 in 10 Wisconsin voters said they thought Mr. Romney would be the party's standard-bearer, according to preliminary exit poll results. Even Rick Santorum's supporters do not see a bright future for their candidate -- a little more than a fourth expected their candidate to win. 
As to whether Mr. Romney can draw out the Republican base in the fall, the jury is still out. Most Wisconsin voters said they were just fine with Mr. Romney as the nominee, while nearly 6 in 10 Santorum supporters said they would be dissatisfied.
Though Wisconsin has long been proud of its progressive streaks, recent political upheavals -- like the influence of the Tea Party movement that propelled Scott Walker, a Republican, into the governor's seat two years ago -- have shifted the landscape. The Republican primary vote was split on Tuesday, with nearly 60 percent saying they belonged to the party, about 30 percent identifying as independents and about 1 in 10 as Democrats (who largely voted for Mr. Santorum).
A little more than half said they supported the Tea Party, nearly the same number as other Midwestern states. Mr. Romney won among Tea Party supporters in Wisconsin, a group he has often lost to -- or split with -- Mr. Santorum.
Over all, the state provided friendlier demographic terrain for Mr. Romney than Southern states that have voted so far, with fewer very conservative voters and evangelical Christians. Maryland's composition was similar among these groups, with Mr. Romney winning all segments except for dividing evangelical Christians, very conservative voters and younger voters with Mr. Santorum.
About 3 in 10 said they were ''very conservative,'' and about the same number identified as ''somewhat conservative.'' Nearly 4 in 10 said they were moderate or liberal. None of these have shifted appreciably since the 2008 primary. Mr. Romney won all these groups in Tuesday's election, except for splitting the very conservative voters with Mr. Santorum, a group that was especially troublesome for Mr. Romney in the Southern states.
A little less than half of Wisconsin voters said Mr. Romney's positions were not conservative enough, but more than a third were comfortable with his views. About 3 in 10 voters said Mr. Santorum's positions were too conservative, while about 4 in 10 said they were about right.
In 2008, nearly 4 in 10 voters considered themselves born-again or evangelical Christians, and they overwhelmingly supported Mike Huckabee. This year, about the same number said they were evangelical, and they divided their vote between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum.
The Republican primary has largely been eclipsed by more local political matters in Wisconsin, with Mr. Walker becoming the state's first governor to face a recall election, set for June. A recent NBC News/Marist poll found that a majority of likely Republican voters said that they were watching the recall election more closely than the presidential primary.
Since his election, Governor Walker has become a lightning rod for his attempts to fix the state's budget through reducing state employee benefits and collective bargaining rights.
Tuesday's exit poll in Wisconsin showed that Republican primary voters overwhelmingly -- by about 8 in 10 -- approve of Mr. Walker's job as governor. The NBC/Marist poll found approval for Mr. Walker evenly split.
Between the recall election and the presidential race, both parties will be trying to divine whether Wisconsin's electorate looks more like 2008 or 2010.
Though voters supported Ronald Reagan in the 1980s, Democratic candidates have won the state ever since. Al Gore and Senator John Kerry claimed extremely tight victories of less than 1 percentage point. In 2008, Barack Obama won by 14 points over John McCain. But in 2010, Mr. Walker won the governorship by 6 percentage points, largely carried by voters' disapproval of the Obama administration and a wave of Tea Party enthusiasm.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gingrich
Paul
Romney
 Santorum CHART: How Different Groups Voted in Wisconsin: Based on interviews with voters by Edison Research as of 10:30 p.m. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (94%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); RELIGION (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); GOVERNORS (73%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (79%); SCOTT WALKER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (98%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



114 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: After Time of Tumult, Doner Sells a Stake to MDC

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
DONER, one of the largest independent advertising agencies, is ending its go-it-alone status after 75 years by selling a minority interest to an agency holding group, MDC Partners, that will have the option to take that ownership stake to a majority.
Doner, based in the Detroit suburb of Southfield, Mich., has an estimated $1 billion in billings and is considered the third largest independent agency by that measure, behind the Richards Group and Wieden & Kennedy. There are 600 Doner employees in Southfield and offices in Cleveland, London and Newport Beach, Calif., who work on the accounts of clients like AutoTrader.com, Avery Dennison, the Chrysler Group, Coca-Cola, Coleman, Serta, Sherwin-Williams and the UPS Store. 
MDC owns all or part of 50 agencies that include Anomaly, Colle & McVoy, Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, Laird & Partners, 72andSunny and Vitro. MDC acquired 100 percent of a leading independent media agency, RJ Palmer, in January and last month bought a majority stake in another leading independent media agency, TargetCast TCM.
MDC is acquiring what Miles S. Nadal, chairman and chief executive of MDC, described as ''a substantial minority interest'' in Doner, which could be increased ''to a significant majority interest at our option,'' he said. The deal is to be formally announced on Wednesday.
MDC is initially paying an estimated $15 million to $20 million for the minority stake, with additional payments contingent on future performance during the next five to seven years.
The decision of the Doner principals to cast their lot with a holding company comes after several trying, tumultuous years that included the loss of the agency's largest account, Mazda North America, for which Doner created the well-known ''Zoom-zoom'' campaign; lawsuits filed by former executives; questions about the handling of the agency's employee pension fund; and turnover among senior managers who included the chief executive, chief financial officer, chief marketing officer and the president of the Newport Beach office.
''We've gone through an interesting four years, let's say,'' said David DeMuth, president and co-chief executive at Doner, referring to the period that ended around mid-2010, when Mazda North America left for a WPP agency.
Since then, however, Doner has landed accounts from marketers like AutoZone, Choice Hotels International, Harman audio and Perkins restaurants as well as the Chrysler Group's retail advertising account and assignments for a new Chrysler model, the Fiat 500 Abarth, that include commercials featuring Charlie Sheen and a baby who speaks Italian. ''I think we've achieved a lot,'' Mr. DeMuth, who is 47, said, ''and what this partnership'' with MDC ''is about is accelerating the good things happening at Doner.''
''This is a decision we didn't enter into lightly,'' said Mr. DeMuth, who owns the agency with Rob Strasberg, co-chief executive and chief creative officer. ''We did a lot of due diligence.''
The goal of the deal is ''to continue to get better, to continue to compete, to continue to serve our clients,'' he added. ''There's a lot of runway ahead of us.''
Mr. Strasberg, 43, is acquainted with MDC because he worked at Crispin Porter & Bogusky before joining Doner in 2008.
''To me, it's as simple as taking the creativity'' of Doner ''and building upon that,'' Mr. Strasberg said.
''The DNA of our agency connected well with what MDC has accomplished,'' he added, and the efforts at ''creating a new Doner'' will be accelerated through the relationship with MDC.
Mr. Nadal, who is Canadian, said he was familiar with Doner through the work for the Canadian Tire retail chain from the agency's former Toronto office, Doner Schur Peppler. A Canadian Tire commercial from 1990 called ''Bike Story'' was voted as one of the top 10 Canadian TV ads of all time.
''When Rob went over to partner with David at Doner, it really got our attention,'' Mr. Nadal said, and he learned about what he described as ''the re-energizing'' of the agency after meeting Mr. DeMuth last summer.
''Never have I seen a management team show more resilience, more resourcefulness and more determination to rebuild an organization,'' he added.
Doner was ''hidden in plain sight,'' Mr. Nadal said, praising the agency for its ''integrated capabilities'' that include media, production, digital work and ''the ability to serve multinational clients.''
''We believe this is an agency whose best days are ahead of it,'' he added.
Doner, formerly known as W. B. Doner & Company, was founded in 1937 by Wilfred B. Doner, known as Brod, who died in 1990. The agency expanded to a second office, in Baltimore, in 1955 and for many years, Doner divided its headquarters between the Maryland and Michigan outposts. The Baltimore office was closed in 2003 and its operations were consolidated in Southfield.
The deal between Doner and MDC is the second on Madison Avenue in less than 24 hours. On Tuesday, Havas, a French agency holding group, said it had acquired a majority stake in Victors & Spoils, an agency specializing in what is called crowdsourcing.
The agreement with Havas came two and a half years after Victors & Spoils was opened by three executives in Boulder, Colo. Victors & Spoils has worked for marketers that include Coca-Cola, Converse, Discovery Channel, Dish Network, Gap, General Mills, Harley-Davidson and Levi's jeans.
Havas and Victors & Spoils would not discuss the financial terms of their agreement.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 10, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Advertising column on Wednesday, about the independent agency Doner's sale of a minority interest to MDC Partners, an agency holding group, erroneously included a middle name for Doner's founder, Wilfred Doner. While Mr. Doner used the middle initial B., his name was not Wilfred Broderick Doner. (He used Wilfred B. Doner in recognition of his nickname, Brod.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At Doner, the co-chief executives Rob Strasberg, left, and David DeMuth. Mr. Strasberg is also the agency's chief creative officer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); HOTEL CHAINS (72%); RESTAURANTS (69%); LITIGATION (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); WPP PLC (84%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (69%); MDC PARTNERS INC (58%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); AVERY DENNISON CORP (57%); AUTOTRADER.COM INC (57%); SHERWIN-WILLIAMS CO (56%); AUTOZONE INC (51%); CHOICE HOTELS INTERNATIONAL INC (51%); HARMAN AUDIO (51%)

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (84%); WPP (LSE) (84%); MDZ.A (TSX) (58%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (58%); KO (NYSE) (57%); AVY (NYSE) (57%); SHW (NYSE) (56%); AZO (NYSE) (51%); CHH (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (57%); NAICS441120 USED CAR DEALERS (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); SIC5511 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (NEW AND USED) (57%); NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (56%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS441310 AUTOMOTIVE PARTS & ACCESSORIES STORES (51%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (51%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (51%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (51%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (51%)

PERSON: CHARLIE SHEEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2012



115 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2431 words

HEADLINE: Straight From the Home Coop

BYLINE: By JULIA MOSKIN

 BODY:
FOR newly hatched chicken enthusiasts, the first egg from your own hens is a small miracle. ''You want to dip it in gold,'' said the writer Susan Orlean, who keeps nine hens at her home in Columbia County, N.Y.
Then comes the second egg: enough for a triumphant breakfast.
But when the whole coop starts laying, she said, the supply of eggs quickly turns into an ''I Love Lucy''-style conveyor belt scene, bringing absurd, unmanageable excess. Ms. Orlean scrambles them into a pile for brunch or dinner, sprinkled with Indian spices, slivered almonds and unsweetened coconut. ''People will eat three and four eggs at a time that way, without blinking,'' she said.
It's not unusual for food lovers to toy with the notion of adding chickens to a thriving garden or building a rooftop coop. Now the novelty has become reality: despite coyotes, foxes and the occasional cage-break, many urbanites and suburbanites are raising their own eggs. 
And many small farmers who supply restaurants with produce have been expanding into poultry, making farm eggs ubiquitous on restaurant menus. The eggs that were once scrubbed from the standard American breakfast over concerns about cholesterol have made a triumphant return as high-end appetizers, served atop anything and everything.
At the North End Grill, an ambitious new restaurant in Battery Park City, eggs rate their own section on the dinner menu.
There are no hard numbers on how many people keep chickens, but hatcheries report a boom in business in the last five years. ''The recession has helped, the local food movement has helped and the green movement has helped,'' said Paul Bradshaw, the owner of Greenfire Farms in Havana, Fla., who specializes in rare breeds like Swedish flower and French Marans, which lay lustrous chocolate-brown eggs that the writer Ian Fleming designated as the preferred breakfast of James Bond.
Martha Stewart made chickens fashionable in the 1990s, showcasing pale blue and green eggs from her South American Araucanas in her magazine. Although egg color does not affect taste, it is an attraction; among Mr. Bradshaw's most desirable hens are British cream legbars, which lay bright, smooth blue eggs that sell in London's chic food markets for 1 pound each, or about $1.30. (A female legbar chick costs $99, compared with about $2 for a standard leghorn.)
Internet commerce has made it easy to order hatching eggs and day-old chicks; Web sites, like those of Greenfire Farms and Murray McMurray Hatchery in Iowa, have live video and gorgeous photos of birds, plumage and vividly colored eggs. ''It's my new J. Crew catalog,'' said Jana Martin, a writer who lives outside Woodstock, N.Y., and started raising Buff Orpington hens last year.
Keeping chickens is legal in many cities and has taken off as part of the urban farming movement. JustFood, a nonprofit group that encourages sustainable and local agriculture, has an educational program called City Chicken, which teaches the basics to New Yorkers: since 2007, the classes have routinely filled up and the schedule is constantly expanding.
''In the spring, you can watch the color of the yolks deepen from week to week, and the taste changes, too,'' said Cathy Erway, a graduate of the program who keeps hens on a rooftop in Red Hook, Brooklyn. (For those who want to keep hens inside an apartment, Mr. Bradshaw recommends the Olandsk dwarf hen, about the size of a grapefruit, which lays eggs that fry up to the size of a silver-dollar pancake.)
In the last month, backyard chickens across the country have begun laying again. Left to their own rhythms, hens slow down or stop laying eggs altogether in the winter, because their reproductive cycle is linked to daylight. For centuries, the simultaneous return of eggs and the sun was seen as a quasi-magical coincidence; it is no wonder eggs are central to ancient spring celebrations like Easter, Passover and Nowruz, the Persian New Year, which begins on the spring equinox.
At this time of year, the difficulty becomes not so much keeping the hens, but keeping up with them.
In high season, a good layer like a Rhode Island red or leghorn can lay an egg every day. Ms. Erway uses up the eggs by making lunch for the staff at Sixpoint Brewery, where she works. ''I put sliced hard-boiled eggs in banh mi,'' she said, referring to the French-Vietnamese baguette sandwiches, stuffed with pickled vegetables and red chile sauce. ''And I'm Chinese-American, so it's second nature for me to add an egg or two if I'm stir-frying rice or noodles.''
''You have to get creative,'' said Ian Knauer, a food writer who had 18 laying hens last year on his family's farm in Pennsylvania. For Mr. Knauer, who lives alone in Brooklyn and tends the farm on weekends with his family, that meant almost eight dozen eggs a week.
''When they start piling up, I get out the big jar,'' he said. Beets and eggs, pickled together in a hot-pink brine, are a standard Pennsylvania Dutch recipe Mr. Knauer has adapted into a watercress and egg salad, using a spoonful of shallot-scented brine in the vinaigrette.
In a new book, ''The Farm,'' he chronicles a year of cooking with mostly farm-grown ingredients, including a simple dinner of soft-boiled eggs with peppery greens, ricotta and black walnuts from trees around the farmhouse.
The Knauers have farmed in Knauertown since the 18th century and, like most farmers, have always kept a flock of chickens. But from the 1920s to the 1950s, egg farming became specialized. Electric lighting meant that lights could be kept on day and night, so hens never stopped laying; refrigeration meant that eggs could be kept fresh for weeks and transported around the country.
By the 1970s, eggs had become a standard supermarket item with no particular season, region or source attached. Enter the real-food revolution, and the notion that raising your own food brought ethical, nutritional and culinary advantages. ''Knowing you can raise your own eggs quite easily makes factory farms seem even more unnecessary,'' Ms. Martin said.
For cooks like her, eggs are particularly helpful in the effort to nudge meat away from the center of the plate.
''This is the time of year when I start looking through old cookbooks to see what the farm wives would do,'' said Kristin Hernandez, who keeps a dozen hens in her backyard in Austin, Tex. Her roommates are all vegetarian or vegan, she said, but even the vegans eat the house-raised eggs because they know that the birds are healthy and well cared for. ''They are like pets who happen to bring us breakfast,'' she said.
Although organic and free-range eggs are now widely available, they do not always taste different from the standard commercial product; home-raised eggs have noticeably better flavor and texture. The yolks of eggs from well-fed, well-exercised hens are as orange-yellow as a New York taxi. They have what Mr. Bradshaw calls ''muscle tone'': thick walls and a rich, intense taste.
''The whites are never runny, and they stand up immediately when you whip them,'' Ms. Martin said. ''Even plain scrambled eggs are different: they have a sweetness, a freshness and a richness to them.''
Then there is the question of age. Eggs can be sold commercially for up to 45 days after they are packed, so long as they are kept refrigerated, according to Agriculture Department regulations. (Eggs keep well until washed for market, because they have a natural coating that is sterile and waterproof.)
But those who raise chickens say that the flavor -- with nuances of grass, earth, nuts and of course, chicken -- is at its peak when the egg is first laid, before it is refrigerated.
Jennifer Trainer Thompson, who works at the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art, has just published ''The Fresh Egg Cookbook,'' an outgrowth of keeping a dozen hens at her home in Williamstown. ''I wasn't thinking of the culinary opportunities at first,'' she said. She saw the chickens more as an outdoor activity and teaching tool for her kids.
But as the eggs mounted up, she began trolling through cookbooks and consulting family and friends for recipes using multiple eggs. An ideal post-Easter recipe, from her Midwestern mother-in-law, is a breakfast casserole that calls for 18 hard-boiled eggs, baked with cheese sauce and topped with crumbled bacon. (For the best results when peeling hard-boiled eggs, start with eggs that are not freshly laid, but have been refrigerated for a week or more.) Her Mediterranean take on a weeknight dinner is poached eggs, served over thick yogurt with toasted pita bread and a trickle of hot, herb-infused butter.
For Joe Dizney, a Web designer in the Hudson Valley, living with a flock of Australorp hens has left a different imprint. He'll break an egg into simmering beef stews and bean soups, fry a couple in butter to top sauteed spring greens like the red-veined sorrel he bought at a recent farmers' market, and coddle them to serve with the wild mushrooms he gathers in the woods near his house.
'' 'Put an egg on it,' '' he said. ''That's become my mantra.''
Recipe: Poached Eggs With Mint and Yogurt
Adapted from ''The Fresh Egg Cookbook'' by Jennifer Trainer Thompson (Storey Publishing)
Time: About 1 hour
1 cup plain Greek yogurt, 2 percent milk fat or whole
1 small garlic clove, finely minced
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
4 tablespoons butter
6 fresh mint leaves
1/2 teaspoon smoked paprika
1/2 teaspoon hot red-pepper flakes
1 tablespoon white vinegar
8 eggs
Toasted pita bread or another flatbread, for serving.
1. In a small bowl, stir the yogurt and garlic together. Season to taste with salt and pepper and set aside for 30 minutes to 1 hour.
2. When ready to cook, use a large spoon to divide the yogurt on four serving plates, making large dollops. Use the back of a spoon to spread each dollop into a large oval, big enough to hold two eggs.
3. In a saucepan, melt the butter over medium heat until it foams. Add mint, paprika and red pepper flakes and stir until fragrant. Turn off the heat and keep warm.
4. In a large, deep skillet, combine two inches of water and the vinegar. Bring to a simmer. Crack the eggs gently into the water. Simmer until softly cooked, about 3 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, lift eggs out one at a time, holding a paper towel under the spoon to avoid dripping water onto the yogurt. Place two eggs on each plateful of yogurt. Remove mint leaves from the warm spiced butter, then use a spoon to drizzle butter over the eggs. Grind black pepper onto each egg, and serve immediately with hot toasted pita bread.
Yield: 4 servings
Recipe: Lemon Pudding Cake
Adapted from ''The Farm,'' by Ian Knauer (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)
Time: 1 hour
4 large eggs, separated
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest
1/3 cup lemon juice
1 tablespoon unsalted butter, melted
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 1/2 cups whole milk.
1. Place a large roasting pan on a rack in the center of the oven. Fill the pan halfway with water. With the pan inside, heat the oven to 350 degrees. Butter an 8-inch square or round baking dish.
2. In a large bowl, whisk together the egg yolks, lemon zest, lemon juice and butter. In another bowl, stir together the sugar, flour and salt. Whisk half the flour mixture into the egg yolks, then half the milk. Whisk in remaining flour mixture, then remaining milk.
3. Whip the egg whites until soft peaks form, then gently fold them into the batter.
4. Pour batter into the buttered dish. Place the dish in the pan of water in the oven. Bake until the cake is set, about 45 minutes.
Yield: 6 to 8 servings.
Recipe: Soft-Boiled Eggs With Watercress and Walnut-Ricotta Crostini
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
4 slices sourdough or other chewy bread
1/2 cup walnut pieces
1/2 cup fresh ricotta or farmer cheese
2 tablespoons lemon juice
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
4 cold eggs
2 cups watercress
Extra-virgin olive oil or walnut oil, for serving.
1. In a large heavy skillet, melt two tablespoons of the butter over medium heat. Add the bread slices and toast, turning occasionally, until both sides are well browned, 3 to 4 minutes. (Reduce heat as needed to prevent scorching.)
2. Remove the bread and add the remaining tablespoon butter to the skillet. Add the walnuts and toast them, stirring, until lightly browned, about 3 minutes. Transfer walnuts to a food processor and let cool. Add ricotta, 1 tablespoon lemon juice and 1/2 teaspoon each salt and pepper. Pulse just until well combined.
3. Place the eggs in a small saucepan and cover with lukewarm water. (Hot water on cold eggs will crack the shells.) Over high heat, bring the water just to a boil. Immediately turn off the heat, cover the pan and let stand for 2 minutes. Transfer the pot to the sink and run cold water over the eggs for about 30 seconds. Peel the eggs under cold running water.
4. In a bowl, toss watercress with the remaining tablespoon lemon juice and salt and pepper to taste. Spread walnut ricotta evenly over the toasts, then top with watercress. Place 1 egg on each toast and grind pepper on top. Using a small, sharp knife, gently cut each egg open to break the yolk, letting it run down to dress the watercress. Drizzle with oil, if using, and serve.
Yield: 2 servings.
Recipe: MJ's Egg Casserole
4 tablespoons butter, plus extra for buttering pan
1/4 cup unbleached all-purpose flour
1 cup cream
1 cup milk
2 cups shredded sharp Cheddar, lightly packed
1/4 cup chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley
1/4 teaspoon dried marjoram
1/4 teaspoon dried thyme
1/8 teaspoon garlic powder
Pinch cayenne
18 hard boiled eggs, peeled and thinly sliced
1 pound bacon, cooked, drained of fat and crumbled
Toast, for serving.
1. Heat the oven to 350 degrees and butter a 9-by-13-inch baking dish.
2. In a saucepan, melt the butter over medium heat until it foams. Whisk in the flour until smooth. Lower the heat and slowly pour in the cream and milk. Heat until steaming, whisking often. Add the cheese and whisk until melted. Add the parsley, marjoram, thyme, garlic powder and cayenne.
3. In the prepared dish, make layers of egg slices, bacon and sauce, ending with sauce. Cover and bake 40 minutes. (To make ahead, refrigerate covered casserole overnight. Remove from the refrigerator 1 hour before baking, and add 20 minutes to baking time.) Let rest 5 to 10 minutes before serving with hot toast.
Yield: 8 to 10 servings.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 11, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Wednesday about eggs produced by backyard chicken coops quoted the price of a legbar egg in London in the wrong currency. It costs $:1, not 1 euro.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NESTED: Soft-boiled eggs, with watercress on crostini, show off the brilliant color of yolks from well-fed hens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RACHEL BARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
HEN FRUIT: Jennifer Trainer Thompson prepares thick yogurt to accompany poached eggs
Paul Bradshaw, the owner of Greenfire Farms in Havana, Fla., with a Bielefelder chicken
once eggs start piling up, Ian Knauer pickles them in a hot-pink brine with beets. Another recipe is soft-boiled eggs on crostini. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
MARK WALLHEISER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RACHEL BARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POULTRY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); POULTRY HATCHERIES (89%); TABLE EGGS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); BIRDS (64%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (63%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012



116 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: In Westchester County, Doubts About Commitment to Housing Deal

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME; Jack Begg contributed research.

 BODY:
WHITE PLAINS -- When Westchester County agreed to a far-reaching affordable housing agreement in 2009, federal officials heralded a new era for desegregation in communities around the country.
''This is consistent with the president's desire to see a fully integrated society,'' said Ron Sims, then the deputy secretary with the Department of Housing and Urban Development. ''Until now, we tended to lay dormant. This is historic, because we are going to hold people's feet to the fire.''
But rather than signaling a transformative moment, the settlement has led to an often rancorous tug of war, complicated by politics and real estate prices in one of the nation's wealthiest areas, where the residents include notables like Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. The result is raising questions about Westchester's commitment to complying with the agreement and just what a ''fully integrated society'' might mean, cost and look like in a largely developed suburban county. 
Westchester is ahead of schedule in building the 750 affordable residences required by the settlement, but there are complaints that rather than representing true economic and racial integration, many of the housing units are far from the heart of affluent white communities. Westchester and HUD remain at a testy impasse over the county's responsibility to ensure that its towns and villages end exclusionary zoning practices.
Five times Westchester has filed a report, required by the agreement, analyzing the obstacles to affordable housing in the county and presenting strategies for overcoming them. Five times the federal government has rejected it as inadequate.
The Westchester County executive, Rob Astorino, has called for HUD to release $7 million it has withheld from the county because of what it calls a lack of compliance.
Mr. Astorino took aim at the department after a court decision in March. A magistrate judge ruled that Mr. Astorino did not violate the agreement when he vetoed a bill that required landlords to accept government vouchers as rental payments.
''This is a major win not just for the county but for the nation,'' Mr. Astorino, a Republican, said at a news conference. ''We took a very principled stand against an unwarranted invasion by HUD and the federal government, and the county won.''
His critics, including some in the Democratic-controlled county legislature and at the Anti-Discrimination Center, the nonprofit group whose lawsuit led to the agreement, said Mr. Astorino was mischaracterizing a mixed ruling and continuing to flout the terms of the deal.
For decades, the federal government has steered clear of concerted efforts to integrate communities by race and income. And the fight in Westchester, along with similar efforts in places like Houston and Marin County, Calif., is being watched as a test of how far the government will go in encouraging residential integration.
The case began with a 2006 lawsuit. The Anti-Discrimination Center alleged that Westchester had lied when, while applying for federal housing money, it claimed to have complied with fair housing mandates.
After a federal judge ruled that the county had ''utterly failed'' to meet its obligations, it agreed to the settlement. The deal required the county to spend $51.6 million to build 750 units of affordable housing in 31 overwhelmingly white communities within seven years, and to market those units to nonwhites aggressively. The Westchester settlement includes working families solidly in the middle class, with most rental units available to a family of four earning up to 65 percent of the area's median income, or $70,135.
The settlement also required the county to ''use all available means as appropriate'' to promote nondiscriminatory housing, including pushing towns and villages to alter zoning rules that discouraged the construction of apartments. Pound Ridge, for example, covers 23.5 square miles, but no land is zoned for multifamily use.
Mr. Astorino, who defeated Andrew J. Spano, the Democratic executive who agreed to the settlement, said that 206 units had been approved and that 196 of those had financing in place, almost double what was expected by this time.
''If the federal government looks at it some way else, you'll have to ask them,'' Mr. Astorino said in an interview. ''But as far as I'm concerned, this is a pretty clear-cut, seven-year contract we have to fulfill in building 750 units in 31 eligible communities. I don't think anyone can deny we're having a lot of success.''
Mr. Astorino said that rather than being a bastion of privilege, Westchester was the fourth most diverse county in the state, and that market forces determined who could afford to live in affluent places like Bronxville, Rye and Scarsdale.
But his critics say the overall diversity masks a deeply segregated landscape in which minorities are clustered in a few cities -- like Mount Vernon, New Rochelle, Peekskill and Yonkers -- while, according to the 2010 census, more than half the towns and villages are less than 5 percent black, and nearly half are less than 10 percent Hispanic. (As a whole, the county's population is 15 percent black and 22 percent Hispanic.)
James E. Johnson, who was chosen by the government to monitor Westchester's performance, offered praise and criticism. He noted progress on the number of units being built and a mixed record on overall compliance, but said Mr. Astorino's public comments were ''not evidence of a program of support for the settlement, or fair housing, or integration.''
The monitor and HUD had argued that Mr. Astorino violated the settlement when he vetoed the bill, which would have prohibited landlords from discriminating against tenants who receive housing subsidies. But the magistrate ruled that while the deal required the county executive to promote such legislation, which Mr. Spano had done, it did not say the executive had to sign it.
Kenneth W. Jenkins, the chairman of the Board of Legislators, said Mr. Astorino's focus on the number of units built distorted the essence of the settlement.
''This is not about 750 units,'' he said, emphasizing that the more important goal was to establish a long-term framework for integrated, affordable housing. ''There's no race to build 750 units.''
Craig Gurian, executive director of the group that sued the county, said much of the housing that had been approved or proposed was adjacent to low-income communities in neighboring towns or otherwise isolated from the rest of the wealthier community.
The proposal for Chappaqua, home of the Clintons, calls for what would be the tallest building in the town, dropped into a no-man's land between railroad tracks, a highway and a bridge. New housing completed in Rye hugs the border of largely minority Port Chester, across two busy highways from the rest of Rye. Forty-six units scheduled for Larchmont sit in a virtually unpopulated block behind a strip mall, squeezed in against railroad tracks and Interstate 95.
Mr. Gurian faulted not only Mr. Astorino, but also HUD and the monitor.
''Unfortunately,'' he said, ''they're failing entirely in the face of two and a half years of clear, pervasive, across-the-board resistance, and it's really a tragic loss of the promise of the consent decree to make change.''
Still, some local officials and residents say many factors complicate compliance, like high land costs, the lack of available land in densely populated southern Westchester, the lack of sewers and the restrictions on building in the New York City watershed in northern Westchester.
Mr. Astorino's supporters also say that the county already has some of the nation's highest real estate taxes, and that it is essential to comply with the ruling in a way that is both fair and affordable.
Mayor Douglas French of Rye said his community had no choice but to build where land was affordable. In Scarsdale, Mayor Miriam Levitt Flisser said her village was taking steps to comply. It is one of six municipalities cited by the monitor as having adopted new land-use rules. But she said Westchester was no more discriminatory than, say, Manhattan, with its swaths of wealth and poverty.
''In a country as large as ours, I think it's very difficult for the federal government to micromanage growth in an exceedingly small municipality with 17,000 residents and 5,000 families,'' she said.
Michael Allen, a lawyer in Washington who worked on the original suit, said HUD was showing a vigor not seen in decades on fair housing issues. He said Westchester was viewed as a test case for the government's resolve.
''This is not big brother imposing its will arbitrarily on innocent Westchester County,'' he said. ''It's just law enforcement. And if going down this road conveys to municipalities that there are obligations that come along with getting federal funds, so much the better.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lower-cost homes under construction in Rye, N.Y., last month. Westchester is ahead of schedule in building 750 of the homes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (86%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ZONING (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); MAGISTRATES (78%); VETO (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); SUBURBS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); DISCRIMINATION (71%); CITIES (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); JUDGES (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); ANDREW CUOMO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



117 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Calling Radicalism by Its Name

 BODY:
President Obama's fruitless three-year search for compromise with the Republicans ended in a thunderclap of a speech on Tuesday, as he denounced the party and its presidential candidates for cruelty and extremism. He accused his opponents of imposing on the country a ''radical vision'' that ''is antithetical to our entire history as a land of opportunity.'' 
Mitt Romney, the Republican presidential front-runner, has embraced a House budget plan that is little more than ''thinly veiled social Darwinism,'' the president said, a ''Trojan horse'' disguised as deficit reduction that would hurt middle- and lower-income Americans.
''By gutting the very things we need to grow an economy that's built to last -- education and training, research and development, our infrastructure -- it is a prescription for decline,'' he said, speaking to a group of Associated Press editors and reporters in Washington.
Mr. Obama has, in recent months, urged Republicans to put aside their destructive agenda. But, in this speech, he finally conceded that the party has demonstrated no interest in the values of compromise and realism. Even Ronald Reagan, who raised taxes in multiple budget deals, ''could not get through a Republican primary today,'' Mr. Obama said. While Democrats have repeatedly shown a willingness to cut entitlements and have agreed to trillions in domestic spending cuts, he said, Republicans won't agree to any tax increases and, in fact, want to shower the rich with even more tax cuts.
The speech was the first time that Mr. Obama linked Mr. Romney, by name, to his party's dishonest budget and discredited trickle-down policies. As Mr. Obama pointed out, Mr. Romney described as ''marvelous'' a budget that would drastically cut student financial aid, medical research, Head Start classrooms and environmental protections. Mr. Obama further ridiculed the budget's deficit-cutting goal as ''laughable'' because it refuses to acknowledge the need for new revenues.
The speech was immediately attacked by the House speaker, John Boehner, for failing to deal with the debt crisis, but Mr. Obama pointed out how hollow that charge has become. ''That argument might have a shred of credibility were it not for their proposal to also spend $4.6 trillion over the next decade on lower tax rates,'' he said. The math is, in fact, quite simple: cutting both taxes and the deficit can mean only more sacrifice from the middle class and the poor, ending the promise of Medicare and Medicaid. Over the long term, the deficit can be brought down through a combination of cuts and new revenues; doing so immediately, as Mr. Romney and his party want to do, would reverse the fragile recovery.
Mr. Obama provided a powerful signal on Tuesday that he intends to make this election about the Republican Party's failure to confront, what he called, ''the defining issue of our time'': restoring a sense of economic security while giving everyone a fair shot, rather than enabling only a shrinking number of people to do exceedingly well. His remarks promise a tough-minded campaign that will call extremism and dishonesty by name.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX LAW (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); DEBT CRISIS (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); TAX INCREASES (71%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (68%); MEDICAID (62%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



118 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Budget Plan's Defeat Shows Hurdles to Compromise

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As the House moved toward a vote last week on a bipartisan budget plan modeled on the deficit reduction blueprint of a White House commission, Washington's conservative and liberal influence machines swung into action.
Within hours, Grover Norquist's Americans for Tax Reform joined Heritage Action for America, the Club for Growth, the Heritage Foundation and assorted conservative bloggers in coming out hard against the plan as an unacceptable tax increase. On the left, the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, and research groups like the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities denounced the effort as a sham, disguised as the Bowles-Simpson commission report but tilted to the right.
After that assault, a plan that its sponsors, Representatives Steven C. LaTourette, Republican of Ohio, and Jim Cooper, Democrat of Tennessee, swore would get at least 100 votes across party lines got just 38, and the prospects for compromise on the nation's yawning deficit took a major step backward. 
''There are only two things in the middle of the road,'' Mr. Cooper said: ''yellow lines and dead possums.''
The beating the Cooper-LaTourette budget took last Wednesday shined a bright light on the difficulties Congress faces in defusing the budgetary time bomb before it explodes on Jan. 1, 2013. If Congress does nothing, that is when nearly $8 trillion in tax increases and automatic spending cuts over 10 years will go into force -- salvation perhaps for the nation's budget deficit, but potential disaster for its delicate economy.
The Bowles-Simpson deficit plan -- named after the former Clinton White House chief of staff Erskine B. Bowles and former Senator Alan K. Simpson, the Republican who was chairman of President Obama's deficit reduction commission -- is regarded by the Washington cognoscenti as the compromise both sides will have to eventually accept before the end of the year.
''When the two parties get serious about compromise and getting something done that reduces the deficit by $4 trillion over the next decade, they will turn to something substantive that is very similar to what we have proposed,'' Mr. Bowles said in an e-mail exchange. ''There just aren't that many other viable options.''
But last week's attacks showed the opposition to any such compromise is far more organized than the forces of conciliation.
The conventional wisdom that a major deficit deal will be worked out in a lame-duck Congressional session after the November election is making a dangerous leap of faith, Mr. Cooper said. It assumes that after a bruising election, the defeated political party will limp back to Washington ready to give in to the victor. If not, the victorious side will quickly undo the most onerous automatic deficit reduction measures early next year.
''They're going to lose the Senate, and they're going to lose the White House, and the Republicans are going to fix this problem,'' Mr. Norquist said. The need for compromise is ''nonsense,'' he said. ''It won't happen. It doesn't need to happen.''
But Mr. Norquist's preferred sequence of events depends on a clean win by one side or the other and once-in-a-generation changes to programs like Medicare and Medicaid done through parliamentary procedures to avoid a Senate filibuster.
Mr. Cooper said it is not so simple. ''The traditional political cure-all is just elect more Democrats or Republicans,'' he said. ''They'll stick to that until Nov. 6. Then they'll wake up and realize it won't work.''
The Cooper-LaTourette budget was proposed auspiciously last Tuesday morning in a closed-door meeting of House Democrats. Initially, only the proponents of the Democratic leadership's budget plan, as well as the budget proposals by the Congressional Black Caucus and the Progressive Caucus, were to make their case, but Mr. Cooper's bipartisan plan was given a chance at the last moment. He implored his colleagues to vote for the Democratic leadership plan, as well as one of the other options presented at the meeting that reflected the views of their district.
Many members gave him their word they would vote for the only bipartisan budget on offer, he said.
Mr. Norquist said conservatives began focusing on the issue the day of the vote. He personally called Mr. LaTourette as well as Representative Charles Bass of New Hampshire, a once-moderate Republican who came back after his 2006 defeat with a swing to the right. Both Heritage Action and Club for Growth announced their opposition and said a vote for the Simpson-Bowles budget would count against members in their conservative vote ratings. The groups had voiced concern about the Republican budget drafted by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the House Budget Committee chairman, but they were rallying to it.
''We wanted to unify Republicans around Ryan, handle the 'Mediscare' attacks from the left, and force the conversation to be between right and left,'' said Michael A. Needham, chief executive of Heritage Action. ''Bowles-Simpson would muddy the message.''
With support draining away, Mr. LaTourette went to the House floor with a broadside at all the interest group allied against him, and with a pointed message to Mr. Norquist, who enforces the ''no tax increase'' pledge signed by almost all Republican lawmakers.
''We're asking that members tonight stand up, that they stand up to the bloodsuckers in this town who take 5, 10, 15, 25 dollars from our constituents to pretend to defend causes on their behalf,'' Mr. LaTourette said. ''We're asking people to stand up to pledges that they made 20 years ago when we didn't have a $15 trillion deficit owed to China.''
It did not work. Republicans stayed with their leadership. Even Democrats who had publicly pledged to back Bowles-Simpson voted no. If only Democrats joined Mr. Cooper and Mr. LaTourette, that budget would not be the final compromise but the Democratic starting position for future negotiations, aides said.
''I wasn't surprised at the attacks from the left and right. I was surprised at the ferocity of the attacks,'' Mr. LaTourette said. ''I got clobbered by some real pros.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Steve LaTourette, Republican of Ohio, above, sponsored a bipartisan budget plan with Representative Jim Cooper of Tennessee, earning the wrath of, among others, Grover Norquist, below, the leader of Americans for Tax Reform. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES
 J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); LIBERALISM (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); CONTUSIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); TAX REFORM (71%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICANS FOR TAX REFORM (84%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (57%); NATIONAL COMMITTEE TO PRESERVE SOCIAL SECURITY & MEDICARE (57%); AFL-CIO (57%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (57%)

PERSON: JIM COOPER (90%); ERSKINE BOWLES (79%); STEVEN C LATOURETTE (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



119 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Investment Firms to Take Burger King Public Again

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN and MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
9:08 p.m. Updated
Burger King is going public. Again.
Just 18 months after being taken private in a leveraged buyout, Burger King Worldwide Holdings, one of the world's largest fast-food chains, plans to list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange through a merger with Justice Holdings, an investment company based in London.
Under the terms of the deal, 3G Capital, the little-known buyout shop that bought Burger King in 2010, will receive about $1.4 billion in cash and continue to own about 71 percent of the company. Justice Holdings will own the rest. 
The transaction, which was announced late Tuesday, was unexpected, as private equity firms generally prefer to fix businesses outside of the public glare. 3G was in the midst of trying to turn around the struggling chain in the United States, while at the same time aggressively expanding internationally.
Burger King's complex deal would be the second time in less than a decade that the restaurant chain has been acquired by a private equity firm and then taken public.
In 2002, a group of buyout shops - TPG, Bain Capital and Goldman Sachs's private equity unit - bought the company for $1.58 billion. The owners then took Burger King public again in 2006.
3G Capital's acquisition of Burger King for about $3.3 billion in 2010 was also a surprise. The firm is backed by Brazilian investors, including the billionaire Jorge Paulo Lemann, who was best known for his major role in the $52 billion merger of the Brazilian-Belgian beer company InBev with Anheuser-Busch.
Justice Holdings is an investment vehicle controlled by the financiers Martin Franklin and Nicolas Berggruen. William A. Ackman, the hedge fund manager, is also an investor and his fund, Pershing Square Capital Management, is expected to own 10 percent of Burger King.
In corporate finance circles, Justice Holdings is known as a Spac, or a special purpose acquisition company, that raises money in the public market to buy companies within a certain time frame, typically two years. They provide private companies with a quicker way to list their shares and avoid some of the details associated with the initial public offering process.
Justice Holdings is one of the most experienced investors in Spacs. Mr. Franklin and Mr. Berggruen have created several such financial vehicles over the years, drawing upon shareholder faith that the money will be used to buy worthwhile targets.
The two men have different backgrounds. Mr. Franklin developed a reputation as a shrewd deal maker at Jarden, which he built into a sprawling group of consumer brands that now includes Rawlings baseball gloves and Coleman camping gear.
Mr. Berggruen, the son of a German art collector, built his wealth by investing in real estate, hedge funds and private equity - and became known as the ''homeless billionaire'' because of his penchant for living in luxury hotels.
The two created several prominent Spac vehicles with lofty names like Justice and Liberty. One of them, Freedom Acquisition Holdings, merged with GLG Partners in 2007, creating one of the few hedge funds publicly traded in the United States.
The two, along with Mr. Ackman, will join 3G in trying to turn around Burger King. The fast-food company was struggling before 3G took it private, buffeted by the global recession and rising commodity costs.
''We believe it is the right time for Burger King to be publicly traded in the U.S. again,'' Daniel Schwartz, its chief financial officer, said in a statement. ''With this transaction, we are positioning the Burger King brand for long-term growth both domestically and internationally.''
Last month, Burger King was knocked off its perch as the county's second-largest hamburger chain by Wendy's, according to a food industry research group. Burger King has come under criticism by analysts for failing to diversify its offerings.
On Monday, the company announced an overhaul of its menu. It introduced items like mango-flavored real fruit smoothies and honey-mustard crispy chicken snack wraps. Burger King also started a new advertising campaign, dropping its much criticized oversize ''King'' mascot in favor of celebrities including Sofia Vergara and Salma Hayek.
On Monday, the company announced an overhaul of its menu. It introduced items like tropical mango-flavored real fruit smoothies and honey-mustard crispy chicken snack wraps. Burger King also started a new advertising campaign, dropping its much criticized oversize ''King'' mascot in favor of celebrities including Sofia Vergara and Salma Hayek.
3G was advised by the law firm Kirkland & Ellis. Justice was advised by Tegris Advisors and the law firms Greenberg Traurig and Sullivan & Cromwell, while its board received a fairness opinion from Barclays.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (91%); PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); GOING PRIVATE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); MERGERS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (86%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); CELEBRITIES (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (64%); BREWERIES (64%); BEER & ALE (64%); SPORTS EQUIPMENT MFG (62%)

COMPANY: BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (97%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); 3G CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (57%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (56%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (54%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (54%)

TICKER: BKW (NYSE) (97%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BUD (NYSE) (54%); ABI (BRU) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (97%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (97%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (54%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (54%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (54%)

PERSON: NICOLAS BERGGRUEN (76%); MARTIN E FRANKLIN (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



120 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Men In Black

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
How dare President Obama brush back the Supreme Court like that?
Has this former constitutional law instructor no respect for our venerable system of checks and balances?
Nah. And why should he?
This court, cosseted behind white marble pillars, out of reach of TV, accountable to no one once they give the last word, is well on its way to becoming one of the most divisive in modern American history.
It has squandered even the semi-illusion that it is the unbiased, honest guardian of the Constitution. It is run by hacks dressed up in black robes. 
All the fancy diplomas of the conservative majority cannot disguise the fact that its reasoning on the most important decisions affecting Americans seems shaped more by a political handbook than a legal brief.
President Obama never should have waded into the health care thicket back when the economy was teetering. He should have listened to David Axelrod and Rahm Emanuel and not Michelle.
His failure from the start to sell his plan or even explain it is bizarre and self-destructive. And certainly he needs a more persuasive solicitor general.
Still, it was stunning to hear Antonin Scalia talking like a Senate whip during oral arguments last week on the constitutionality of the health care law. He mused on how hard it would be to get 60 votes to repeal parts of the act, explaining why the court may just throw out the whole thing. And, sounding like a campaign's oppo-research guy, he batted around politically charged terms like ''Cornhusker Kickback,'' referring to a sweetheart deal that isn't even in the law.
If he's so brilliant, why is he drawing a risible parallel between buying health care and buying broccoli?
The justices want to be above it all, beyond reproach or criticism. But why should they be?
In 2000, the Republican majority put aside its professed disdain of judicial activism and helped to purloin the election for W., who went on to heedlessly invade Iraq and callously ignore Katrina.
As Anthony Lewis wrote in The Times back then, ''Deciding a case of this magnitude with such disregard for reason invites people to treat the court's aura of reason as an illusion.''
The 2010 House takeover by Republicans and the G.O.P. presidential primary have shown what a fiasco the Citizens United decision is, with self-interested sugar daddies and wealthy cronies overwhelming the democratic process.
On Monday, the court astoundingly ruled -- 5 Republican appointees to 4 Democratic appointees -- to give police carte blanche on strip-searches, even for minor offenses such as driving without a license or violating a leash law. Justice Stephen Breyer's warning that wholesale strip-searches were ''a serious affront to human dignity and to individual privacy'' fell on deaf ears. So much for the conservatives' obsession with ''liberty.''
The Supreme Court mirrors the setup on Fox News: There are liberals who make arguments, but they are weak foils, relegated to the background and trying to get in a few words before the commercials.
Just as in the Senate's shameful Anita Hill-Clarence Thomas hearings, the liberals on the court focus on process and the conservatives focus on results. John Roberts Jr.'s benign beige facade is deceiving; he's a crimson partisan, simply more cloaked than the ideologically rigid and often venomous Scalia.
Just as Scalia voted to bypass that little thing called democracy and crown W. president, so he expressed ennui at the idea that, even if parts of the health care law are struck down, some provisions could be saved: ''You really want us to go through these 2,700 pages?'' he asked, adding: ''Is this not totally unrealistic?''
Inexplicably mute 20 years after he lied his way onto the court, Clarence Thomas didn't ask a single question during oral arguments for one of the biggest cases in the court's history.
When the Supreme Court building across from the Capitol opened in 1935, the architect, Cass Gilbert, played up the pomp, wanting to reflect the court's role as the national ideal of justice.
With conservatives on that court trying to block F.D.R., and with Roosevelt prepared to pack the court, the New Yorker columnist Howard Brubaker noted that the new citadel had ''fine big windows to throw the New Deal out of.''
Now conservative justices may throw Obama's hard-won law out of those fine big windows. They've already been playing Twister, turning precedents into pretzels to achieve their political objective. In 2005, Scalia was endorsing a broad interpretation of the commerce clause and the necessary and proper clause, the clauses now coming under scrutiny from the majority, including the swing vote, Justice Anthony Kennedy. (Could the dream of expanded health care die at the hands of a Kennedy?)
Scalia, Roberts, Thomas and the insufferable Samuel Alito were nurtured in the conservative Federalist Society, which asserts that ''it is emphatically the province and duty of the judiciary to say what the law is, not what it should be.''
But it isn't conservative to overturn a major law passed by Congress in the middle of an election. The majority's political motives are as naked as a strip-search.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LAWYERS (75%); LEASH LAWS (73%); HISTORY (71%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (71%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); ANIMAL CONTROL (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); STEPHEN BREYER (58%); ANTONIN SCALIA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



121 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 6950 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Remarks to Newspaper Editors

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Obama's speech at The Associated Press luncheon on Tuesday, as released by the White House:
Thank you very much. (Applause.) Please have a seat. Well, good afternoon, and thank you to Dean Singleton and the board of the Associated Press for inviting me here today. It is a pleasure to speak to all of you -- and to have a microphone that I can see. (Laughter.) Feel free to transmit any of this to Vladimir if you see him. (Laughter.)
Clearly, we're already in the beginning months of another long, lively election year. There will be gaffes and minor controversies, be hot mics and Etch-a-Sketch moments. You will cover every word that we say, and we will complain vociferously about the unflattering words that you write -- unless, of course, you're writing about the other guy -- in which case, good job. (Laughter.) 
But there are also big, fundamental issues at stake right now -- issues that deserve serious debate among every candidate, and serious coverage among every reporter. Whoever he may be, the next President will inherit an economy that is recovering, but not yet recovered, from the worst economic calamity since the Great Depression. Too many Americans will still be looking for a job that pays enough to cover their bills or their mortgage. Too many citizens will still lack the sort of financial security that started slipping away years before this recession hit. A debt that has grown over the last decade, primarily as a result of two wars, two massive tax cuts, and an unprecedented financial crisis, will have to be paid down.
In the face of all these challenges, we're going to have to answer a central question as a nation: What, if anything, can we do to restore a sense of security for people who are willing to work hard and act responsibly in this country? Can we succeed as a country where a shrinking number of people do exceedingly well, while a growing number struggle to get by? Or are we better off when everyone gets a fair shot, and everyone does their fair share, and everyone plays by the same rules?
This is not just another run-of-the-mill political debate. I've said it's the defining issue of our time, and I believe it. It's why I ran in 2008. It's what my presidency has been about. It's why I'm running again. I believe this is a make-or-break moment for the middle class, and I can't remember a time when the choice between competing visions of our future has been so unambiguously clear.
Keep in mind, I have never been somebody who believes that government can or should try to solve every problem. Some of you know my first job in Chicago was working with a group of Catholic churches that often did more good for the people in their communities than any government program could. In those same communities I saw that no education policy, however well crafted, can take the place of a parent's love and attention.
As President, I've eliminated dozens of programs that weren't working, and announced over 500 regulatory reforms that will save businesses and taxpayers billions, and put annual domestic spending on a path to become the smallest share of the economy since Dwight Eisenhower held this office -- since before I was born. I know that the true engine of job creation in this country is the private sector, not Washington, which is why I've cut taxes for small business owners 17 times over the last three years.
So I believe deeply that the free market is the greatest force for economic progress in human history. My mother and the grandparents who raised me instilled the values of self-reliance and personal responsibility that remain the cornerstone of the American idea. But I also share the belief of our first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln -- a belief that, through government, we should do together what we cannot do as well for ourselves.
That belief is the reason this country has been able to build a strong military to keep us safe, and public schools to educate our children. That belief is why we've been able to lay down railroads and highways to facilitate travel and commerce. That belief is why we've been able to support the work of scientists and researchers whose discoveries have saved lives, and unleashed repeated technological revolutions, and led to countless new jobs and entire industries.
That belief is also why we've sought to ensure that every citizen can count on some basic measure of security. We do this because we recognize that no matter how responsibly we live our lives, any one of us, at any moment, might face hard times, might face bad luck, might face a crippling illness or a layoff. And so we contribute to programs like Medicare and Social Security, which guarantee health care and a source of income after a lifetime of hard work. We provide unemployment insurance, which protects us against unexpected job loss and facilitates the labor mobility that makes our economy so dynamic. We provide for Medicaid, which makes sure that millions of seniors in nursing homes and children with disabilities are getting the care that they need.
For generations, nearly all of these investments -- from transportation to education to retirement programs -- have been supported by people in both parties. As much as we might associate the G.I. Bill with Franklin Roosevelt, or Medicare with Lyndon Johnson, it was a Republican, Lincoln, who launched the Transcontinental Railroad, the National Academy of Sciences, land grant colleges. It was Eisenhower who launched the Interstate Highway System and new investment in scientific research. It was Richard Nixon who created the Environmental Protection Agency, Ronald Reagan who worked with Democrats to save Social Security. It was George W. Bush who added prescription drug coverage to Medicare.
What leaders in both parties have traditionally understood is that these investments aren't part of some scheme to redistribute wealth from one group to another. They are expressions of the fact that we are one nation. These investments benefit us all. They contribute to genuine, durable economic growth.
Show me a business leader who wouldn't profit if more Americans could afford to get the skills and education that today's jobs require. Ask any company where they'd rather locate and hire workers - a country with crumbling roads and bridges, or one that's committed to high-speed Internet and high-speed railroads and high-tech research and development?
It doesn't make us weaker when we guarantee basic security for the elderly or the sick or those who are actively looking for work. What makes us weaker is when fewer and fewer people can afford to buy the goods and services our businesses sell, or when entrepreneurs don't have the financial security to take a chance and start a new business. What drags down our entire economy is when there's an ever-widening chasm between the ultra-rich and everybody else.
In this country, broad-based prosperity has never trickled down from the success of a wealthy few. It has always come from the success of a strong and growing middle class. That's how a generation who went to college on the G.I. Bill, including my grandfather, helped build the most prosperous economy the world has ever known. That's why a CEO like Henry Ford made it his mission to pay his workers enough so they could buy the cars that they made. That's why research has shown that countries with less inequality tend to have stronger and steadier economic growth over the long run.
And yet, for much of the last century, we have been having the same argument with folks who keep peddling some version of trickle-down economics. They keep telling us that if we'd convert more of our investments in education and research and health care into tax cuts -- especially for the wealthy -- our economy will grow stronger. They keep telling us that if we'd just strip away more regulations, and let businesses pollute more and treat workers and consumers with impunity, that somehow we'd all be better off. We're told that when the wealthy become even wealthier, and corporations are allowed to maximize their profits by whatever means necessary, it's good for America, and that their success will automatically translate into more jobs and prosperity for everybody else. That's the theory.
Now, the problem for advocates of this theory is that we've tried their approach -- on a massive scale. The results of their experiment are there for all to see. At the beginning of the last decade, the wealthiest Americans received a huge tax cut in 2001 and another huge tax cut in 2003. We were promised that these tax cuts would lead to faster job growth. They did not. The wealthy got wealthier -- we would expect that. The income of the top 1 percent has grown by more than 275 percent over the last few decades, to an average of $1.3 million a year. But prosperity sure didn't trickle down.
Instead, during the last decade, we had the slowest job growth in half a century. And the typical American family actually saw their incomes fall by about 6 percent, even as the economy was growing.
It was a period when insurance companies and mortgage lenders and financial institutions didn't have to abide by strong enough regulations, or they found their ways around them. And what was the result? Profits for many of these companies soared. But so did people's health insurance premiums. Patients were routinely denied care, often when they needed it most. Families were enticed, and sometimes just plain tricked, into buying homes they couldn't afford. Huge, reckless bets were made with other people's money on the line. And our entire financial system was nearly destroyed.
So we tried this theory out. And you would think that after the results of this experiment in trickle-down economics, after the results were made painfully clear, that the proponents of this theory might show some humility, might moderate their views a bit. You'd think they'd say, you know what, maybe some rules and regulations are necessary to protect the economy and prevent people from being taken advantage of by insurance companies or credit card companies or mortgage lenders. Maybe, just maybe, at a time of growing debt and widening inequality, we should hold off on giving the wealthiest Americans another round of big tax cuts. Maybe when we know that most of today's middle-class jobs require more than a high school degree, we shouldn't gut education, or lay off thousands of teachers, or raise interest rates on college loans, or take away people's financial aid.
But that's exactly the opposite of what they've done. Instead of moderating their views even slightly, the Republicans running Congress right now have doubled down, and proposed a budget so far to the right it makes the Contract with America look like the New Deal. (Laughter.) In fact, that renowned liberal, Newt Gingrich, first called the original version of the budget ''radical'' and said it would contribute to ''right-wing social engineering.'' This is coming from Newt Gingrich.
And yet, this isn't a budget supported by some small rump group in the Republican Party. This is now the party's governing platform. This is what they're running on. One of my potential opponents, Governor Romney, has said that he hoped a similar version of this plan from last year would be introduced as a bill on day one of his presidency. He said that he's ''very supportive'' of this new budget, and he even called it ''marvelous'' -- which is a word you don't often hear when it comes to describing a budget. (Laughter.) It's a word you don't often hear generally. (Laughter.)
So here's what this ''marvelous'' budget does. Back in the summer, I came to an agreement with Republicans in Congress to cut roughly $1 trillion in annual spending. Some of these cuts were about getting rid of waste; others were about programs that we support but just can't afford given our deficits and our debt. And part of the agreement was a guarantee of another trillion in savings, for a total of about $2 trillion in deficit reduction.
This new House Republican budget, however, breaks our bipartisan agreement and proposes massive new cuts in annual domestic spending - exactly the area where we've already cut the most. And I want to actually go through what it would mean for our country if these cuts were to be spread out evenly. So bear with me. I want to go through this -- because I don't think people fully appreciate the nature of this budget.
The year after next, nearly 10 million college students would see their financial aid cut by an average of more than $1,000 each. There would be 1,600 fewer medical grants, research grants for things like Alzheimer's and cancer and AIDS. There would be 4,000 fewer scientific research grants, eliminating support for 48,000 researchers, students, and teachers. Investments in clean energy technologies that are helping us reduce our dependence on foreign oil would be cut by nearly a fifth.
If this budget becomes law and the cuts were applied evenly, starting in 2014, over 200,000 children would lose their chance to get an early education in the Head Start program. Two million mothers and young children would be cut from a program that gives them access to healthy food. There would be 4,500 fewer federal grants at the Department of Justice and the FBI to combat violent crime, financial crime, and help secure our borders. Hundreds of national parks would be forced to close for part or all of the year. We wouldn't have the capacity to enforce the laws that protect the air we breathe, the water we drink, or the food that we eat.
Cuts to the FAA would likely result in more flight cancellations, delays, and the complete elimination of air traffic control services in parts of the country. Over time, our weather forecasts would become less accurate because we wouldn't be able to afford to launch new satellites. And that means governors and mayors would have to wait longer to order evacuations in the event of a hurricane.
That's just a partial sampling of the consequences of this budget. Now, you can anticipate Republicans may say, well, we'll avoid some of these cuts -- since they don't specify exactly the cuts that they would make. But they can only avoid some of these cuts if they cut even deeper in other areas. This is math. If they want to make smaller cuts to medical research that means they've got to cut even deeper in funding for things like teaching and law enforcement. The converse is true as well. If they want to protect early childhood education, it will mean further reducing things like financial aid for young people trying to afford college.
Perhaps they will never tell us where the knife will fall -- but you can be sure that with cuts this deep, there is no secret plan or formula that will be able to protect the investments we need to help our economy grow.
This is not conjecture. I am not exaggerating. These are facts. And these are just the cuts that would happen the year after next.
If this budget became law, by the middle of the century, funding for the kinds of things I just mentioned would have to be cut by about 95 percent. Let me repeat that. Those categories I just mentioned we would have to cut by 95 percent. As a practical matter, the federal budget would basically amount to whatever is left in entitlements, defense spending, and interest on the national debt -- period. Money for these investments that have traditionally been supported on a bipartisan basis would be practically eliminated.
And the same is true for other priorities like transportation, and homeland security, and veterans programs for the men and women who have risked their lives for this country. This is not an exaggeration. Check it out yourself.
And this is to say nothing about what the budget does to health care. We're told that Medicaid would simply be handed over to the states -- that's the pitch: Let's get it out of the central bureaucracy. The states can experiment. They'll be able to run the programs a lot better. But here's the deal the states would be getting. They would have to be running these programs in the face of the largest cut to Medicaid that has ever been proposed -- a cut that, according to one nonpartisan group, would take away health care for about 19 million Americans -- 19 million.
Who are these Americans? Many are someone's grandparents who, without Medicaid, won't be able to afford nursing home care without Medicaid. Many are poor children. Some are middle-class families who have children with autism or Down's Syndrome. Some are kids with disabilities so severe that they require 24-hour care. These are the people who count on Medicaid.
Then there's Medicare. Because health care costs keep rising and the Baby Boom generation is retiring, Medicare, we all know, is one of the biggest drivers of our long-term deficit. That's a challenge we have to meet by bringing down the cost of health care overall so that seniors and taxpayers can share in the savings.
But here's the solution proposed by the Republicans in Washington, and embraced by most of their candidates for president: Instead of being enrolled in Medicare when they turn 65, seniors who retire a decade from now would get a voucher that equals the cost of the second cheapest health care plan in their area. If Medicare is more expensive than that private plan, they'll have to pay more if they want to enroll in traditional Medicare. If health care costs rise faster than the amount of the voucher -- as, by the way, they've been doing for decades -- that's too bad. Seniors bear the risk. If the voucher isn't enough to buy a private plan with the specific doctors and care that you need, that's too bad.
So most experts will tell you the way this voucher plan encourages savings is not through better care at cheaper cost. The way these private insurance companies save money is by designing and marketing plans to attract the youngest and healthiest seniors -- cherry-picking -- leaving the older and sicker seniors in traditional Medicare, where they have access to a wide range of doctors and guaranteed care. But that, of course, makes the traditional Medicare program even more expensive, and raise premiums even further.
The net result is that our country will end up spending more on health care, and the only reason the government will save any money -- it won't be on our books -- is because we've shifted it to seniors. They'll bear more of the costs themselves. It's a bad idea, and it will ultimately end Medicare as we know it.
Now, the proponents of this budget will tell us we have to make all these draconian cuts because our deficit is so large; this is an existential crisis, we have to think about future generations, so on and so on. And that argument might have a shred of credibility were it not for their proposal to also spend $4.6 trillion over the next decade on lower tax rates.
We're told that these tax cuts will supposedly be paid for by closing loopholes and eliminating wasteful deductions. But the Republicans in Congress refuse to list a single tax loophole they are willing to close. Not one. And by the way, there is no way to get even close to $4.6 trillion in savings without dramatically reducing all kinds of tax breaks that go to middle-class families -- tax breaks for health care, tax breaks for retirement, tax breaks for homeownership.
Meanwhile, these proposed tax breaks would come on top of more than a trillion dollars in tax giveaways for people making more than $250,000 a year. That's an average of at least $150,000 for every millionaire in this country -- $150,000.
Let's just step back for a second and look at what $150,000 pays for: A year's worth of prescription drug coverage for a senior citizen. Plus a new school computer lab. Plus a year of medical care for a returning veteran. Plus a medical research grant for a chronic disease. Plus a year's salary for a firefighter or police officer. Plus a tax credit to make a year of college more affordable. Plus a year's worth of financial aid. One hundred fifty thousand dollars could pay for all of these things combined -- investments in education and research that are essential to economic growth that benefits all of us. For $150,000, that would be going to each millionaire and billionaire in this country. This budget says we'd be better off as a country if that's how we spend it.
This is supposed to be about paying down our deficit? It's laughable.
The bipartisan Simpson-Bowles commission that I created -- which the Republicans originally were for until I was for it -- that was about paying down the deficit. And I didn't agree with all the details. I proposed about $600 billion more in revenue and $600 billion -- I'm sorry -- it proposed about $600 billion more in revenue and about $600 billion more in defense cuts than I proposed in my own budget. But Bowles-Simpson was a serious, honest, balanced effort between Democrats and Republicans to bring down the deficit. That's why, although it differs in some ways, my budget takes a similarly balanced approach: Cuts in discretionary spending, cuts in mandatory spending, increased revenue.
This congressional Republican budget is something different altogether. It is a Trojan Horse. Disguised as deficit reduction plans, it is really an attempt to impose a radical vision on our country. It is thinly veiled social Darwinism. It is antithetical to our entire history as a land of opportunity and upward mobility for everybody who's willing to work for it; a place where prosperity doesn't trickle down from the top, but grows outward from the heart of the middle class. And by gutting the very things we need to grow an economy that's built to last -- education and training, research and development, our infrastructure -- it is a prescription for decline.
And everybody here should understand that because there's very few people here who haven't benefitted at some point from those investments that were made in the '50s and the '60s and the '70s and the '80s. That's part of how we got ahead. And now, we're going to be pulling up those ladders up for the next generation?
So in the months ahead, I will be fighting as hard as I know how for this truer vision of what the United States of America is all about. Absolutely, we have to get serious about the deficit. And that will require tough choices and sacrifice. And I've already shown myself willing to make these tough choices when I signed into law the biggest spending cut of any President in recent memory. In fact, if you adjust for the economy, the Congressional Budget Office says the overall spending next year will be lower than any year under Ronald Reagan.
And I'm willing to make more of those difficult spending decisions in the months ahead. But I've said it before and I'll say it again -- there has to be some balance. All of us have to do our fair share.
I've also put forward a detailed plan that would reform and strengthen Medicare and Medicaid. By the beginning of the next decade, it achieves the same amount of annual health savings as the plan proposed by Simpson-Bowles -- the Simpson-Bowles commission, and it does so by making changes that people in my party haven't always been comfortable with. But instead of saving money by shifting costs to seniors, like the congressional Republican plan proposes, our approach would lower the cost of health care throughout the entire system. It goes after excessive subsidies to prescription drug companies. It gets more efficiency out of Medicaid without gutting the program. It asks the very wealthiest seniors to pay a little bit more. It changes the way we pay for health care -- not by procedure or the number of days spent in a hospital, but with new incentives for doctors and hospitals to improve their results.
And it slows the growth of Medicare costs by strengthening an independent commission -- a commission not made up of bureaucrats from government or insurance companies, but doctors and nurses and medical experts and consumers, who will look at all the evidence and recommend the best way to reduce unnecessary health care spending while protecting access to the care that the seniors need.
We also have a much different approach when it comes to taxes -- an approach that says if we're serious about paying down our debt, we can't afford to spend trillions more on tax cuts for folks like me, for wealthy Americans who don't need them and weren't even asking for them, and that the country cannot afford. At a time when the share of national income flowing to the top 1 percent of people in this country has climbed to levels last seen in the 1920s, those same folks are paying taxes at one of the lowest rates in 50 years. As both I and Warren Buffett have pointed out many times now, he's paying a lower tax rate than his secretary. That is not fair. It is not right.
And the choice is really very simple. If you want to keep these tax rates and deductions in place -- or give even more tax breaks to the wealthy, as the Republicans in Congress propose -- then one of two things happen: Either it means higher deficits, or it means more sacrifice from the middle class. Seniors will have to pay more for Medicare. College students will lose some of their financial aid. Working families who are scraping by will have to do more because the richest Americans are doing less. I repeat what I've said before: That is not class warfare, that is not class envy, that is math.
If that's the choice that members of Congress want to make, then we're going to make sure every American knows about it. In a few weeks, there will be a vote on what we've called the Buffett Rule. Simple concept: If you make more than a million dollars a year -- not that you have a million dollars -- if you make more than a million dollars annually, then you should pay at least the same percentage of your income in taxes as middle-class families do. On the other hand, if you make under $250,000 a year -- like 98 percent of American families do -- then your taxes shouldn't go up. That's the proposal.
Now, you'll hear some people point out that the Buffett Rule alone won't raise enough revenue to solve our deficit problems. Maybe not, but it's definitely a step in the right direction. And I intend to keep fighting for this kind of balance and fairness until the other side starts listening, because I believe this is what the American people want. I believe this is the best way to pay for the investments we need to grow our economy and strengthen the middle class. And by the way, I believe it's the right thing to do.
This larger debate that we will be having and that you will be covering in the coming year about the size and role of government, this debate has been with us since our founding days. And during moments of great challenge and change, like the ones that we're living through now, the debate gets sharper; it gets more vigorous. That's a good thing. As a country that prizes both our individual freedom and our obligations to one another, this is one of the most important debates that we can have.
But no matter what we argue or where we stand, we have always held certain beliefs as Americans. We believe that in order to preserve our own freedoms and pursue our own happiness, we can't just think about ourselves. We have to think about the country that made those liberties possible. We have to think about our fellow citizens with whom we share a community. We have to think about what's required to preserve the American Dream for future generations.
And this sense of responsibility -- to each other and our country -- this isn't a partisan feeling. This isn't a Democratic or Republican idea. It's patriotism. And if we keep that in mind, and uphold our obligations to one another and to this larger enterprise that is America, then I have no doubt that we will continue our long and prosperous journey as the greatest nation on Earth.
Thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. (Applause.) Thank you.
MR. SINGLETON: Thank you, Mr. President. We appreciate so much you being with us today. I have some questions from the audience, which I will ask -- and I'll be more careful than I was last time I did this.
Republicans have been sharply critical of your budget ideas as well. What can you say to the Americans who just want both sides to stop fighting and get some work done on their behalf?
THE PRESIDENT: Well, I completely understand the American people's frustrations, because the truth is that these are eminently solvable problems. I know that Christine Lagarde is here from the IMF, and she's looking at the books of a lot of other countries around the world. The kinds of challenges they face fiscally are so much more severe than anything that we confront -- if we make some sensible decisions.
So the American people's impulses are absolutely right. These are solvable problems if people of good faith came together and were willing to compromise. The challenge we have right now is that we have on one side, a party that will brook no compromise. And this is not just my assertion. We had presidential candidates who stood on a stage and were asked, ''Would you accept a budget package, a deficit reduction plan, that involved $10 of cuts for every dollar in revenue increases?'' Ten-to-one ratio of spending cuts to revenue. Not one of them raised their hand.
Think about that. Ronald Reagan, who, as I recall, is not accused of being a tax-and-spend socialist, understood repeatedly that when the deficit started to get out of control, that for him to make a deal he would have to propose both spending cuts and tax increases. Did it multiple times. He could not get through a Republican primary today.
So let's look at Bowles-Simpson. Essentially, my differences with Bowles-Simpson were I actually proposed less revenue and slightly lower defense spending cuts. The Republicans want to increase defense spending and take in no revenue, which makes it impossible to balance the deficit under the terms that Bowles-Simpson laid out -- unless you essentially eliminate discretionary spending. You don't just cut discretionary spending. Everything we think of as being pretty important -- from education to basic science and research to transportation spending to national parks to environmental protection -- we'd essentially have to eliminate.
I guess another way of thinking about this is -- and this bears on your reporting. I think that there is oftentimes the impulse to suggest that if the two parties are disagreeing, then they're equally at fault and the truth lies somewhere in the middle, and an equivalence is presented -- which reinforces I think people's cynicism about Washington generally. This is not one of those situations where there's an equivalence. I've got some of the most liberal Democrats in Congress who were prepared to make significant changes to entitlements that go against their political interests, and who said they were willing to do it. And we couldn't get a Republican to stand up and say, we'll raise some revenue, or even to suggest that we won't give more tax cuts to people who don't need them.
And so I think it's important to put the current debate in some historical context. It's not just true, by the way, of the budget. It's true of a lot of the debates that we're having out here.
Cap and trade was originally proposed by conservatives and Republicans as a market-based solution to solving environmental problems. The first President to talk about cap and trade was George H.W. Bush. Now you've got the other party essentially saying we shouldn't even be thinking about environmental protection; let's gut the EPA.
Health care, which is in the news right now -- there's a reason why there's a little bit of confusion in the Republican primary about health care and the individual mandate since it originated as a conservative idea to preserve the private marketplace in health care while still assuring that everybody got covered, in contrast to a single-payer plan. Now, suddenly, this is some socialist overreach.
So as all of you are doing your reporting, I think it's important to remember that the positions I'm taking now on the budget and a host of other issues, if we had been having this discussion 20 years ago, or even 15 years ago, would have been considered squarely centrist positions. What's changed is the center of the Republican Party. And that's certainly true with the budget.
SINGLETON: Mr. President, the managing director of the (inaudible) for continuation of United States leadership (inaudible) economic issues, and underscored the need for a lower deficit and lower debt. How can you respond to that claim?
THE PRESIDENT: Well, look, she's absolutely right. It's interesting, when I travel around the world at these international fora -- and I've said this before -- the degree to which America is still the one indispensable nation, the degree to which, even as other countries are rising and their economies are expanding, we are still looked to for leadership, for agenda setting -- not just because of our size, not just because of our military power, but because there is a sense that unlike most superpowers in the past, we try to set out a set of universal rules, a set of principles by which everybody can benefit.
And that's true on the economic front as well. We continue to be the world's largest market, an important engine for economic growth. We can't return to a time when by simply borrowing and consuming, we end up driving global economic growth.
I said this a few months after I was elected at the first G20 summit. I said the days when Americans using their credit cards and home equity loans finance the rest of the world's growth by taking in imports from every place else -- those days are over. On the other hand, we continue to be a extraordinarily important market and foundation for global economic growth.
We do have to take care of our deficits. I think Christine has spoken before, and I think most economists would argue as well, that the challenge when it comes to our deficits is not short-term discretionary spending, which is manageable. As I said before and I want to repeat, as a percentage of our GDP, our discretionary spending -- all the things that the Republicans are proposing cutting -- is actually lower than it's been since Dwight Eisenhower. There has not been some massive expansion of social programs, programs that help the poor, environmental programs, education programs. That's not our problem.
Our problem is that our revenue has dropped down to between 15 and 16 percent -- far lower than it has been historically, certainly far lower than it was under Ronald Reagan -- at the same time as our health care costs have surged, and our demographics mean that there is more and more pressure being placed on financing our Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security programs.
So at a time when the recovery is still gaining steam, and unemployment is still very high, the solution should be pretty apparent. And that is even as we continue to make investments in growth today -- for example, putting some of our construction workers back to work rebuilding schools and roads and bridges, or helping states to rehire teachers at a time when schools are having a huge difficulty retaining quality teachers in the classroom -- all of which would benefit our economy, we focus on a long-term plan to stabilize our revenues at a responsible level and to deal with our health care programs in a responsible way. And that's exactly what I'm proposing.
And what we've proposed is let's go back, for folks who are making more than $250,000 a year, to levels that were in place during the Clinton era, when wealthy people were doing just fine, and the economy was growing a lot stronger than it did after they were cut. And let's take on Medicare and Medicaid in a serious way -- which is not just a matter of taking those costs off the books, off the federal books, and pushing them onto individual seniors, but let's actually reduce health care costs. Because we spend more on health care with not as good outcomes as any other advanced, developed nation on Earth.
And that would seem to be a sensible proposal. The problem right now is not the technical means to solve it. The problem is our politics. And that's part of what this election and what this debate will need to be about, is, are we, as a country, willing to get back to common-sense, balanced, fair solutions that encourage our long-term economic growth and stabilize our budget. And it can be done.
One last point I want to make, Dean, that I think is important, because it goes to the growth issue. If state and local government hiring were basically on par to what our current recovery -- on par to past recoveries, the unemployment rate would probably be about a point lower than it is right now. If the construction industry were going through what we normally go through, that would be another point lower. The challenge we have right now -- part of the challenge we have in terms of growth has to do with the very specific issues of huge cuts in state and local government, and the housing market still recovering from this massive bubble. And that -- those two things are huge headwinds in terms of growth.
I say this because if we, for example, put some of those construction workers back to work, or we put some of those teachers back in the classroom, that could actually help create the kind of virtuous cycle that would bring in more revenues just because of economic growth, would benefit the private sector in significant ways. And that could help contribute to deficit reduction in the short term, even as we still have to do these important changes to our health care programs over the long term.
MR. SINGLETON: Mr. President, you said yesterday that it would be unprecedented for a Supreme Court to overturn laws passed by an elected Congress. But that is exactly what the Court has done during its entire existence. If the Court were to overturn individual mandate, what would you do, or propose to do, for the 30 million people who wouldn't have health care after that ruling?
THE PRESIDENT: Well, first of all, let me be very specific. We have not seen a Court overturn a law that was passed by Congress on a economic issue, like health care, that I think most people would clearly consider commerce -- a law like that has not been overturned at least since Lochner. Right? So we're going back to the '30s, pre New Deal.
And the point I was making is that the Supreme Court is the final say on our Constitution and our laws, and all of us have to respect it, but it's precisely because of that extraordinary power that the Court has traditionally exercised significant restraint and deference to our duly elected legislature, our Congress. And so the burden is on those who would overturn a law like this.
Now, as I said, I expect the Supreme Court actually to recognize that and to abide by well-established precedence out there. I have enormous confidence that in looking at this law, not only is it constitutional, but that the Court is going to exercise its jurisprudence carefully because of the profound power that our Supreme Court has. As a consequence, we're not spending a whole bunch of time planning for contingencies.
What I did emphasize yesterday is there is a human element to this that everybody has to remember. This is not an abstract exercise. I get letters every day from people who are affected by the health care law right now, even though it's not fully implemented. Young people who are 24, 25, who say, you know what, I just got diagnosed with a tumor. First of all, I would not have gone to get a check-up if I hadn't had health insurance. Second of all, I wouldn't have been able to afford to get it treated had I not been on my parent's plan. Thank you and thank Congress for getting this done.
I get letters from folks who have just lost their job, their COBRA is running out. They're in the middle of treatment for colon cancer or breast cancer, and they're worried when their COBRA runs out, if they're still sick, what are they going to be able to do because they're not going to be able to get health insurance.
And the point I think that was made very ably before the Supreme Court, but I think most health care economists who have looked at this have acknowledged, is there are basically two ways to cover people with preexisting conditions or assure that people can always get coverage even when they had bad illnesses. One way is the single-payer plan -- everybody is under a single system, like Medicare. The other way is to set up a system in which you don't have people who are healthy but don't bother to get health insurance, and then we all have to pay for them in the emergency room.
That doesn't work, and so, as a consequence, we've got to make sure that those folks are taking their responsibility seriously, which is what the individual mandate does.
So I don't anticipate the Court striking this down. I think they take their responsibilities very seriously. But I think what's more important is for all of us, Democrats and Republicans, to recognize that in a country like ours -- the wealthiest, most powerful country on Earth -- we shouldn't have a system in which millions of people are at risk of bankruptcy because they get sick, or end up waiting until they do get sick and then go to the emergency room, which involves all of us paying for it.
SINGLETON: Mr. President, you've been very, very generous with your time, and we appreciate very much you being here.
THE PRESIDENT: Thank you so much, everybody. (Applause.) Thank you.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); GREAT DEPRESSION (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



122 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Seeks More Money for Struggling Economies

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The managing director of the International Monetary Fund said on Tuesday that the global recovery was growing stronger but remained fragile, and called on the international community to give the organization more firepower to help stabilize tottering economies. 
''We certainly need more resources,'' the director, Christine Lagarde, told the annual meeting of The Associated Press. Ms. Lagarde said the I.M.F. would address the question of how much more was needed at its spring meeting in two weeks.
The I.M.F. currently has about $400 billion in resources that it can use to provide loans to countries in trouble. Ms. Lagarde has talked about expanding that to close to $1 trillion. The 17 countries in the European Union that use the euro have already promised to provide $200 billion (150 billion euros) of that amount.
Ms. Lagarde said that the global economy was making some advances in digging itself out of the worst downturn in decades, but that the recovery remained particularly frail in Europe. She suggested cutting government spending too quickly in developed countries like the United States and larger European nations could make things worse, not better.
Policy makers on both sides of the Atlantic need ''breathing space to finish the job,'' she said. Ms. Lagarde also said that Europe's faltering would quickly spread and that the United States recovery, slowly gaining strength, ''might well be in jeopardy.''
''America has a large stake'' in how Europe and the rest of the world fares, Ms. Lagarde said.
She said it was important to continue and expand emergency programs in the euro zone to help heavily indebted countries there.
Ms. Lagarde's remarks came after the European Union raised its emergency bailout funds on Friday for heavily indebted countries to $1.1 trillion (800 billion euros). That was short of the $1.3 trillion (1 trillion euros) that Ms. Lagarde and other international leaders have said is needed to calm financial markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EURO (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); DEBTOR NATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



123 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Pennsylvania Lets Romney Go Straight For Jugular

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
WAUKESHA, Wis. -- To hear Mitt Romney and his team tell it, Mr. Romney will undoubtedly be the Republican Party's presidential nominee.
From Stuart Stevens, one of his top strategists: ''Mitt Romney is going to be the nominee of the party.''
And from Mr. Romney himself on Sunday: The nominee ''will probably be me.'' 
The question is when. Campaign aides say Mr. Romney's sweep of primaries on Tuesday in Maryland, the District of Columbia and Wisconsin could buoy him in the next step of the nominating contest -- the April 24 contests in Connecticut, Delaware, New York, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island -- and help him effectively shut down his chief rival, Rick Santorum, before May.
''The choice is going to be between Mitt Romney and Barack Obama,'' Mr. Stevens said.
''The overall dynamic of this race is it's going to be an M.R.I. of Barack Obama's record -- it's not an M.R.I. of the soul,'' he added, referring to the comment by David Axelrod, the Obama campaign's chief strategist, that presidential campaigns are M.R.I.'s of the soul.
''This isn't going to be about dogs or children's toys or birth control pills,'' Mr. Stevens said. ''It's going to be about the overall direction of the country.''
Mr. Santorum represented Pennsylvania in the House and Senate for 16 years, and he has said he needs to win there. A new Quinnipiac University poll of likely Republican primary voters in the state gave him a six-point edge over Mr. Romney, and Mr. Romney's aides will not publicly predict that he can beat Mr. Santorum there. But the Romney campaign believes that the result in Wisconsin can help propel Mr. Romney to victory in the popular vote in Pennsylvania, delivering a crushing blow to the Santorum campaign. Even without a victory in Pennsylvania's primary, Mr. Romney's aides believe he can win more than half of its 72 delegates. The state's system for awarding them is complicated, but in every district the Romney campaign recruited slates of delegate candidates -- with strong name recognition and the support of the state and local party --who either currently support Mr. Romney or are most likely to support him as the party's nominee at the national convention.
The campaign already has four paid staffers in the state, based in Harrisburg, and others are headed to Pennsylvania as well. Mr. Romney will spend part of Wednesday and Thursday campaigning there.
Though his aides do not expect to let up for the next three weeks, they also plan to use the break to tweak their operation. Until late March, when Mr. Romney spent the weekend at home in La Jolla, Calif., he had spent nearly every day since Christmas on the road, a breakneck pace his aides hope to scale back; Mr. Romney will take three days off for Easter, and try to work slightly shorter days. He will use the extra time, they said, to read and prepare for the general election.
Mr. Romney will also continue to hold more town-hall-style meetings, with their intimate voter interaction, and add more spontaneous stops at restaurants and local establishments. In Wisconsin, for instance, he and Representative Paul D. Ryan stopped by a diner where Mr. Romney picked up four slices of cherry pie, and two days later they popped into a fast-food restaurant famous for its ButterBurgers.
Mr. Romney already seems to have moved past Mr. Santorum and turned his attention to President Obama. In a speech on Friday in Appleton, Wis., he delivered a lyrical, forceful attack on Mr. Obama's presidency, and on Tuesday he called on Mr. Obama to take responsibility for the nation's problems.
''He gets full credit or blame for what's happened in this economy, and what's happened to gasoline prices under his watch, and what's happened to our schools, and what's happened to our military forces,'' Mr. Romney said. ''All these things are his responsibility while he's president.''
He added: ''It's time to have someone who will take responsibility, and if I'm president I will not only get things right again, I'll take responsibility for my errors and make sure that people understand we will have a president in the White House again where the buck will stop at his desk.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (95%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%); CONTRACEPTION (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); RICK SANTORUM (89%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (71%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



124 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Jews' Support for Obama Remains High, Poll Finds

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

 BODY:
A poll of American Jewish voters shows that they overwhelmingly support Barack Obama for president, just as they did four years ago, and that Israel and Iran rank low on their list of priority issues in the presidential election. 
The results cast doubt on the claim that Mr. Obama has alienated a significant swath of Jewish voters because of his rocky relationship with Israel's prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu. -
''We show no slippage in Jewish support for President Obama,'' said Robert P. Jones, chief executive of the Public Religion Research Institute, an independent research group based in Washington D.C., which conducted the poll of 1,004 Jewish adults from Feb. 23 to March 5. The margin of error is plus or minus five percentage points.
Support for Mr. Obama is still higher among Jews than among the general electorate, with 62 percent of Jewish voters saying they would like to see him elected, and 30 percent saying they preferred the Republican candidate. (That is almost identical to a Gallup poll of American Jewish registered voters taken in June 2008.)
Of the 30 percent of those polled who said they preferred a Republican candidate, 58 percent said they supported Mitt Romney, 15 percent supported Rick Santorum, 13 percent supported Newt Gingrich and 12 percent supported Ron Paul.
Asked to rank which issues were most important to their vote for president, about half of American Jews cited the economy, and 15 percent cited the growing gap between the rich and the poor. Concern about Israel or Iran ranked very low, even when respondents were asked for the second most important issue that would determine their vote for president.
On relations between the United States and Israel, 54 percent of those polled said relations were about the same as in the past, while 37 percent said they were worse, and only 7 percent said they were better. Only 20 percent said they liked the way that Mr. Obama had handled the Arab-Israeli conflict and that they agreed with his policies, while 15 percent said they agreed with the president's policies, but didn't like the way he was carrying them out. Twenty-eight percent said they disagreed with his policies, and 36 percent said they were not sure
''We see some tensions here,'' Mr. Jones said, ''but ultimately when it comes down to who they're going to choose as president, it's not what's driving the vote.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); VOTERS & VOTING (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (93%); JEWS & JUDAISM (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (73%); RELIGION (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MITT ROMNEY (73%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (57%); RON PAUL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



125 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Romney Adds 3 Victories And Clashes With Obama

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and JEFF ZELENY; Ashley Parker contributed reporting from Milwaukee, and Mark Landler from Washington.

 BODY:
MILWAUKEE -- Mitt Romney tightened his grip on the Republican nomination on Tuesday with a sweep of the primaries in Wisconsin, Maryland and the District of Columbia, and found himself in his first direct engagement with President Obama, an unmistakable signal that the general election would not wait for internal Republican politics.
Mr. Romney emerged from the evening with substantial gains in delegates and a growing perception that he was winning over previously reluctant elements of the party. In winning the main battleground of Wisconsin, Mr. Romney led among strong Tea Party supporters and ran closely with Rick Santorum among those who consider themselves to be very conservative and among evangelical Christians, according to exit polls.
Mr. Santorum, who at one point led in polls here, said he would continue to compete for voters who ''have yet to be heard'' in the coming primaries, starting with his home state, Pennsylvania, on April 24. 
But the day was in some respects the start of the general election. Mr. Obama for the first time singled Mr. Romney out by name, during a major address dedicated to the budget championed by Mr. Romney's marquee endorser in Wisconsin -- Representative Paul D. Ryan -- which the president called ''social Darwinism.''
''He said that he's 'very supportive' of this new budget,'' Mr. Obama said of Mr. Romney while speaking at a meeting of editors and reporters in Washington. Using a mocking tone, and referring obliquely to perceptions of his potential opponent's elite pedigree, Mr. Obama added, ''And he even called it 'marvelous,' which is a word you don't often hear when it comes to describing a budget; it's a word you don't hear generally.''
Taking the stage to declare victory in downtown Milwaukee, Mr. Romney took his turn to strike general election themes. ''President Obama thinks he's doing a good job -- I'm not kidding,'' Mr. Romney said, speaking with a huge American flag behind him and an excited hall of supporters in front of him. ''It's enough to make you think that years of flying around on Air Force One, surrounded by an adoring staff of true believers telling you that you're great and you're doing a great job, it's enough to make you think that you might become a little out of touch.''
Even as he assailed Mr. Obama as presiding over a ''government-centered society,'' Mr. Romney spoke in upbeat, elevated and optimistic tones that were steeped in themes of patriotism fashioned for a general election.
''The dreamers can dream a little bigger, the help wanted signs can be dusted off, and we can start again,'' Mr. Romney said. ''And this time we'll get it right.''
Mr. Obama's new focus on Mr. Romney represents a sudden but much-thought-out shift.
The White House had been content until now to watch the Republican race unfold on its own, and let Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney batter each other without its help.
But as Mr. Romney has started to solidify his delegate lead, unify his party and repair the damage to his favorability ratings from these past few months of hard campaigning, Mr. Obama's aides decided to take their engagement to a new level on Tuesday.
The president will not directly confront Mr. Romney every day, aides said. That responsibility will largely be left to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and the re-election campaign.
But the frequency of the television advertising is increasing, an intentional strategy of the Obama campaign to deny Mr. Romney a moment to rebuild from his long and bruising primary fight.
The Democrats have conducted extensive research on Mr. Romney, his positions and the early perceptions that voters may have of him. A key finding of polling and other surveys, advisers say, is that Mr. Romney remains undefined to a wide universe of people, a void that the Obama campaign is eager to fill while Mr. Romney is still trying to secure the nomination.
The president's re-election team was initially planning to start directly confronting the likely Republican nominee in February -- the week after Mr. Romney won the Florida primary -- but the rapid rise of Mr. Santorum delayed the need for that effort.
Now, advisers to Mr. Obama say they are intent on keeping the arguments from the Republican race fresh in the minds of voters, including those who were not closely following the primary.
Mr. Obama, as he spoke about income disparity in America on Tuesday, outlined what his campaign hopes to make a central question of the presidential race: Should voters trust Mr. Romney, one of the wealthiest candidates in modern times, to be fair to them?
The Romney campaign and party leaders said the president's new engagement proves that Republicans have no time to waste in uniting the party behind him, raising money and fending off such attempts before they can take root in the minds of voters.
Mr. Obama's direct engagement with Mr. Romney may have raised his stature as the most likely Republican nominee. But Mr. Romney must also keep an eye on Mr. Santorum, who still retains some potential, however slim, to block him from reaching the 1,144 mark in the 19 Republican contests ahead.
And with the presidential race now operating on two distinct fronts, Mr. Romney has the dual task of seeking to dispense with Mr. Santorum even as he begins to directly confront the more impressive arsenal of an incumbent president.
Mr. Santorum was already turning his attention to Pennsylvania, where he hopes to revive his candidacy, and also predicted a win in the delegate-rich state of Texas late next month. Portraying this as the halfway point in the Republican race, Mr. Santorum, speaking in Mars, Pa., said, ''Who's ready to charge out of the locker room in Pennsylvania for a strong second half?''
Though Mr. Santorum leads in some polls in Pennsylvania, the surveys of voters leaving polls here in Wisconsin showed new signs that Mr. Romney was perhaps making critical final strides with the sorts of voters who have so far kept Mr. Santorum in the race -- the strong Tea Party supporters and those calling themselves ''very conservative.'' Some of that seemed to be a reflection of Mr. Romney's margin of victory here.
Whatever the final vote tallies, the results of Mr. Romney's wins Tuesday were certain to put him that much farther ahead in the hunt for the 1,144 delegates needed to clinch the nomination before the Republican convention in August. He won the majority of the 100 delegates in play in the three contests Tuesday night. According to The Associated Press's delegate tally, Mr. Romney had 646 delegates, Mr. Santorum had 272, Newt Gingrich had 135 and Representative Ron Paul had 51.
Mr. Romney's campaign is hoping to rob Mr. Santorum of a victory in his home state, and, in the process, steal away his hopes of, at the very least, forcing an open convention where he would have a new shot at the nomination.
But during his speech in Milwaukee, Mr. Romney looked beyond the Republican primary fight and focused his anger exclusively on Mr. Obama, bringing the likely contours of a general election into fuller view while assuring Americans that he would restore the nation's economic might.
''Those days are coming back. That's our destiny. Join me,'' Mr. Romney said. ''Take another step every day until November 6th.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney attended a victory rally Tuesday night in Milwaukee. ''The help wanted signs can be dusted off, and we can start again,'' he told supporters there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) CHARTS: Results: Wisconsin
Maryland
 District of Columbia (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); RELIGION (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (61%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); PAUL RYAN (79%); RICK SANTORUM (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (94%) WISCONSIN, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



126 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Obama, in Talk, Calls House G.O.P. Budget the Work of Rightist Radicals

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Jonathan Weisman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama opened a full-frontal assault on Tuesday on the federal budget adopted by House Republicans, condemning it as a ''Trojan horse'' that would greatly deepen inequality in the United States, and painting it as the manifesto of a party that has swung radically to the right.
Warning against what he said would be severe cuts to college scholarships, medical research, national parks, and even technology to make accurate weather forecasts, Mr. Obama said the Republican budget was ''so far to the right, it makes the Contract With America'' -- Newt Gingrich's legislative manifesto of 1994 -- ''look like the New Deal.'' 
Mr. Obama's scathing attack, in a speech to a meeting of editors and reporters, was part of a broad indictment of the Republican Party that included the president's likely opponent in the fall, Mitt Romney.
The House budget, and the philosophy it represents, Mr. Obama said, is ''antithetical to our entire history as a land of opportunity and upward mobility for everyone who's willing to work for it -- a place where prosperity doesn't trickle down from the top, but grows outward from the heart of the middle class.''
Republicans fired back quickly at the president, with the House speaker, John A. Boehner, accusing him of lobbing ''partisan potshots'' at Republicans rather than responding to their budget plan with a responsible counteroffer. A spokesman for the House Budget Committee, Conor Sweeney, said Mr. Obama's assertions about the cuts in the budget ''are simply false.''
For Mr. Obama, it was the latest in a string of combative speeches, in which he has sought to make House Republicans a proxy for the Republican Party and cast himself as a brake on their radical agenda.
''I can't remember a moment when the choice between competing visions of our future has been so unambiguously clear,'' Mr. Obama said.
Americans, he said, cannot afford to elect a Republican president at a time of fragile economic recovery, with a weak job market and a crushing debt from ''two wars, two massive tax cuts and an unprecedented financial crisis.'' The widening gulf between the rich and everyone else, Mr. Obama said, was hobbling the country's economic growth. He cited studies that found that societies with less income inequality had stronger and steadier growth.
''In this country, broad-based prosperity has never trickled down from the success of a wealthy few,'' the president said. ''It has always come from the success of a strong and growing middle class. That's how a generation who went to college on the G.I. Bill, including my grandfather, helped build the most prosperous economy the world has ever known.''
Mr. Obama's themes echoed his State of the Union address in January and his speech in Osawatomie, Kan., in December, when he invoked a Republican president, Theodore Roosevelt, who he said combined a fervent belief in the free market with a resolve to protect those vulnerable to its excesses.
But the president turned a harsh new spotlight on the 2013 budget, drafted by Representative Paul D. Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican who chairs the Budget Committee. The proposal, he said, calls for across-the-board cuts in discretionary spending, as well as tax cuts, which he said would disproportionately benefit households earning more than $250,000 and would cost $4.6 trillion over the next decade.
''Disguised as deficit reduction plans, it is really an attempt to impose a radical vision on our country. It is thinly veiled social Darwinism,'' Mr. Obama said. ''And by gutting the very things we need to grow an economy that's built to last -- education and training, research and development, our infrastructure -- it's a prescription for decline.''
Singling out Medicare, the president asserted that the Republican plan to shift people to a system of vouchers would drive up the cost of health care for the elderly, since private insurance companies would target the youngest and healthiest people and leave the rest to rely on Medicare.
For millionaires, the president said, the average annual benefit of the tax cuts would be $150,000 -- money that he said could be used to pay for computer labs in schools, salaries for police officers and firefighters, medical care for veterans and a year's worth of prescription drugs for older people.
The White House's calculation for the tax benefit is straightforward, but Republicans on the House Budget Committee say it is wrong. The average household earning more than $1 million would gain $46,000 from the House budget's repeal of the Medicare hospital insurance tax that was part of the health care law, the Republicans said, and $105,000 from the extension of the Bush-era tax cuts that Mr. Obama wants to see expire next year.
But the shape of the tax code is left largely unknown by the budget. The blueprint calls for the six existing income tax rates collapsed into just two, 25 percent and 10 percent. The revenue loss would have to be made up by the repeal of unspecified tax credits and deductions. It would be up to the House Ways and Means Committee to determine how that would be done.
In theory, tax writers could focus on tax breaks that primarily help the rich, like the deduction for charitable giving, or end the biggest tax breaks only for upper income earners. But Democrats say such selective changes to the tax code would never recoup such large cuts to income tax rates.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Speaking in Washington on Tuesday, President Obama criticized Republicans, the latest in a string of combative speeches. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (72%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (71%); WEATHER (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); EMPLOYMENT (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



127 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Wisconsin Votes After Fiercely Fought Battle

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL; Ashley Parker contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WAUKESHA, Wis. -- As Wisconsin voters went to the polls on Tuesday in the first hard-fought Republican presidential primary in the state since 1980, many echoed the arguments made by the two main rivals on the campaign trail.
Mitt Romney's supporters said he was the best choice to defeat President Obama and they urged fellow Republicans to unite behind him. Those favoring Rick Santorum praised his rock-ribbed conservatism and argued that the contest isn't over until it's over.
''I spoke to my dad, who's very political, and he figured Romney has the best chance of beating Obama -- that's what it came down to,'' said Brandy Holtz, 42, who works for a tree company in this suburb of Milwaukee.
Greg Torres, 25, a state transportation employee, said Mr. Santorum ''seems like somebody who's going to stick with what he says.'' 
''I think a long fought-out primary will be helpful in getting the message out,'' he added.
Polls in the past week have shown Mr. Romney, who trailed Mr. Santorum in mid-February, solidifying a lead in Wisconsin.
Although there are also primaries on Tuesday in Maryland and Washington, D.C., Mr. Romney is expected to win those contests easily, and so it has been this state, with 42 delegates at stake, where both leading candidates have campaigned hardest.
Mr. Santorum, looking for another Midwestern victory to add to his wins in neighboring Iowa and Minnesota, virtually camped out here, visiting some two dozen counties, mostly in rural areas.
He implored audiences to vote, saying the key to an upset would be large turnouts in the rural regions, with about 40 percent of the statewide electorate, to swamp Romney supporters in Green Bay and Milwaukee.
Mr. Santorum has visited bowling alleys and brew pubs and ate his first fried cheese curds in search of cultural connections with voters. ''This is the first time since Iowa where I felt like I was getting in touch with the people in the community,'' he said.
Mr. Romney has made far fewer appearances, but he targeted his visits carefully to Madison, Milwaukee and Green Bay and especially the conservative belt of suburbs around Milwaukee.
Here in Waukesha County, which had had some of the highest turnouts historically in Republican primaries in the state, John McCain beat a more conservative alternative, Mike Huckabee, in 2008 by more than 30 percentage points.
Mr. Romney won the endorsement of the state's most prominent national conservative, Representative Paul D. Ryan, who on Monday was by his side at rallies in Green Bay and Milwaukee.
Several people who voted for Mr. Romney cited the endorsement, as well as Mr. Romney's embrace of Mr. Ryan's recent budget plan promising $5 trillion more in cuts than President Obama has proposed. ''That really put it over the top for me,'' said Steve Dermody, 52, a printing industry salesman. ''We'd love to see Paul Ryan as a running mate here in Wisconsin.''
So confident is Mr. Romney that over the weekend he predicted victory in Wisconsin and said it would put him ''on a path that will get me the nomination well before the convention.''
He never mentioned his Republican rivals while campaigning on Monday, focusing his attacks exclusively on Mr. Obama, whose economic policies he called ''a bust.''
In a sign that Mr. Obama, too, is hastening toward a general election matchup with Mr. Romney, his re-election campaign released an advertisement on Monday accusing Mr. Romney of supporting tax breaks for big oil companies.
On Tuesday, during a lunch-hour stop at Cousins Subs in Waukesha, Mr. Romney said Mr. Obama was passing the buck on high fuel prices. ''So the president put an ad out yesterday, talking about gasoline prices and how high they are,'' he said. ''And guess who he blamed? Me! Maybe after I'm president I can take responsibility for things I might have done wrong. But this president doesn't want to take responsibility for his mistakes.''
Mr. Romney was planning an election night party in Milwaukee. Mr. Santorum has already left Wisconsin and plans to speak after the polls close in Mars, Penn. Pennsylvania is his home state, and he has called the April 24 primary there a must-win contest.
Mr. Santorum acknowledged he was in an uphill fight in Wisconsin, though even if he loses the statewide vote, worth 18 delegates, he expects to pick up other delegates by carrying some of the state's Congressional districts.
Since the nominating contests began in January, he said, Mr. Santorum has won 937 counties in states that have voted, compared with about 300 for Mr. Romney.
He sought to energize voters like Mary Dolan, 63, who came out for him in Johnson Creek, in rural Jefferson County. She made up her mind based on his support of ''family issues,'' she said. ''His character, that comes across to me -- what I've read about his family,'' she said.
Making the argument that there is an enthusiasm gap among Republicans who vote for Mr. Romney, Mr. Santorum said on the stump that in the 11 states he had won so far, turnout was up whereas it was lower in states that Mr. Romney carried.
Although experts have cited depressed turnouts in suburban areas of Florida and Michigan that Mr. Romney won, Mr. Santorum's argument is a distortion. Overall turnout in battleground states that Mr. Romney carried, including Ohio and New Hampshire, has been up compared with 2008.
One place Mr. Romney has dominated here, as usual, has been the airwaves, where he and his supporters have outspent Mr. Santorum by four to one on negative advertisements.
Many voters criticized the attack ads and automated phone calls. ''You're just giving more fuel for Obama,'' said Steve Siever, 54, who is unemployed. ''I think we need to select our best individual that's going to beat Obama and I think Romney by far is going to be more successful.''
Outside a Santorum event in Oshkosh on Monday, a protester held a sign: ''18 robocalls, 4 days means 0 votes.''
Newt Gingrich, his campaign starved for cash and semi-idled, spent Monday campaigning in Maryland, an easy trip from his home in Virginia.
Representative Ron Paul, who held a rally at the University of Wisconsin last week, made his presence felt in recent days through knots of youthful supporters with signs, who shadowed the other candidates rallies.
Many voters said they had only made up their minds in recent days.
''My husband and I agree with Santorum's conservative views,'' said Diane Shuh, 52, a secretary. ''But at this point Romney's the likely nominee and we want to wrap it up.''
Online Correction: April 3, 2012, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that Ron Paul had not campaigned in Wisconsin. He held his first campaign event in the state at the University of Wisconsin last Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); SUBURBS (68%); BUDGETS (60%); DRINKING PLACES (50%); BOWLING CENTERS (50%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); RICK SANTORUM (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (94%); GREEN BAY, WI, USA (88%); MADISON, WI, USA (78%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



128 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1866 words

HEADLINE: In India, a Small Pill, With Positive Side Effects

BYLINE: AMY YEE


HIGHLIGHT: Mass campaigns to treat parasitic worms in children, like those underway in India, can bring long-term educational and social benefits, too. 

 BODY:
On a cool February morning in north Delhi, India, 35 third graders sat at small desks in a spartan but tidy classroom. They wore blue school uniforms and listened as their teacher asked in Hindi if they had had intestinal worms.
A third of the children raised their hands, including 9-year-old Arjun Prasad. He sometimes felt stomach pain and weakness - symptoms of severe infection - he said. A few minutes later, Arjun and his classmates were given deworming pills, and took them during the class. They were among the 3.7 million children in Delhi who have taken the pills as part of a recent campaign in India's capital to stamp out the widespread but neglected ailment.
Intestinal worms are pervasive in the developing world and can have devastating effects. But there is growing awareness about how easy and inexpensive it is to treat worms, as well as surprising longer-term socioeconomic benefits. Research shows deworming to be extremely cost-effective: you get a lot of bang for your buck.
Two economists, Michael Kremer of Harvard University and Edward Miguel of the University of California, Berkeley, found that deworming reduced school absenteeism by 25 percent in a sampling of schools in Kenya and that regular treatment could lead to an additional year of attendance - all for $3.50 per student, far less than subsidies, meals, free bicycles or other incentives to keep kids in school.

Children who are regularly dewormed earn over 20 percent more as adults and work 12 percent more hours, while those infected are 13 percent less likely to be literate.
Worms affect 600 million school-age children worldwide and cause diarrhea, anemia, internal bleeding, malnutrition and other debilitating symptoms. These blood-draining parasites stunt physical and mental growth, sap energy and can leave a child too weak to attend school. Hookworm, whipworm and roundworm are soil-transmitted helminths, so low-income people who live in unsanitary conditions or don't wear shoes are particularly susceptible.
The chewable pill, mebendazole, which the Delhi schoolchildren said tasted like peppermint, costs just 3 cents. It is safe, easy to administer in schools (teachers can be trained to do it) and costs 50 cents per child to distribute twice a year. Within a few days the pill flushes worms out of the body.
The Delhi campaign followed others in India. Bihar, an eastern state for years practically synonymous with poverty in India, last year dewormed a staggering 17 million schoolchildren - nearly double the population of Sweden. Andhra Pradesh, in southern India, distributed deworming tablets to 2 million children in 2009.
Today, worms are considered a disease limited to poor countries; that's one reason they are neglected by donors and policy makers. But a century ago, worms were pervasive in the American South. The philanthropist John D. Rockefeller financed a 1910-15 deworming campaign in 11 Southern states after testing showed average hookworm infection rates of 40 percent among school-age children. Rockefeller's $1 million donation paid for deworming for 400,000 children, as well as hygiene education. This led to eradicating widespread hookworm infection in the United States. Hoyt Bleakley, an economist at the University of Chicago's Booth School of Management, estimated that childhood hookworm infection led to 40 percent less income earned in adulthood. School attendance also rose substantially after deworming.
If giving deworming pills to schoolchildren is so easy and effective, why haven't more large-scale programs taken off? In fact, rolling out mass deworming programs, especially in infamously bureaucratic and corrupt India, is a huge logistical feat and a notable act of political will.
The first challenge is lack of awareness. Worms are so common in the developing world that they are considered a part of childhood by the poor and are usually left untreated. Ironically, because worms are easy to treat, donors tend to think governments don't need help introducing campaigns. Worms also do not directly kill large numbers of people, though they contribute to malnutrition and diarrhea. Diarrhea is an insidious illness that kills 1.5 million children worldwide each year - more than AIDS, malaria, and measles combined.
Another challenge is lack of advocacy. Intestinal worms are one of 17 neglected tropical diseases that affect 1.2 billion people worldwide, and include elephantiasis, leprosy and trachoma. These diseases are "largely silent, as the people affected or at risk have little political voice," said Margaret Chan, director general of the World Health Organization, in a 2010 report.
While worms are inexpensive to treat, they are expensive to diagnose. Last year, 3,600 stool samples were collected from Delhi children and tested in government labs and hospitals. The study found that the average infection rate in Delhi public schools was 16 percent, but as much as 83 percent in one slum - high enough to spur the citywide campaign.
But deworming has other advantages, too. School-age children are most at risk for worms, so schools are an established network to distribute tablets. In contrast, many vaccines should be given to infants and toddlers who are too young for school; parents have to be motivated enough to have babies vaccinated. Some vaccines must be refrigerated - no small task in hot countries with sporadic electricity and remote villages - and must be administered or injected by trained health workers.
Diseases that afflict the poor give little incentive for investment in new or better treatments. Fortunately, deworming's low cost made it possible for GlaxoSmithKline and Johnson & Johnson to pledge annual donations of 400 million and 200 million albendazole pills, respectively.
Deworming tablets are widely used (they are sold over the counter in India) and don't carry the political and ethical sensitivities of vaccines. They are generic, so patents are not an issue. Students do not need parental consent to take them, thus decreasing bureaucracy.
Ultimately, political will and dogged organization are vital for mass deworming. Big Indian cities have populations larger than entire countries, so deworming requires intensive logistical support. In Bihar alone, children in 67,000 schools were dewormed and nearly 140,000 teachers and 20,000 health workers trained.
In Delhi, three ministries - education, health and women and children's development - all had to work together. To add to the complexity, Delhi government schools are run by three entities - state and two municipal governments - and deworming also happened at government health centers for the poor, called anganwadis.
Deworming programs require surveillance, monitoring and evaluation, training of health workers and teachers, and education about sanitation and hygiene, as well as worms.
Coordination in India was spearheaded by a global campaign called Deworm the World. In 2007 the Harvard economist Kremer helped start Deworm the World after the World Economic Forum in Davos, where he and other "young global leaders" were asked to come up with concrete ways to tackle global problems. (Kremer is president of Deworm the World.)
For a year and a half, Deworm the World lobbied government officials in Delhi to get approvals and plan the campaign. In Bihar, it took less than a year of talks and planning to introduce the state's deworming campaign. The head of Bihar's government, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, has been commended for his social initiatives since taking office in 2005. Once Bihar health officials were convinced about deworming, they took on the project.
The key to sparking interest from governments was compelling evidence based on more than a decade of research in Kenya by Kremer and Miguel. Kremer's interest in Kenya goes back to 1985 when he taught at a secondary school there for a year after graduating from Harvard. (He didn't get worms but he did get malaria and giardia.)
Some 20 years later, he and Miguel led a team of about 30 researchers to track down Kenyans who received deworming pills as children through a Dutch nonprofit program. They carved out a subsample from 30,000 dewormed children and tracked down more than 5,000 young adults. Ten years after deworming, many of them had moved and were scattered in Uganda, islands in Lake Victoria and even London. "Finding information was quite a process," said Kremer from Boston, in a phone interview.
Miguel noted in a phone interview from California that in the 1990s it was rare for economists to do long-term tracking. "You need resources and a team that sticks with it year after year." He added, "We were persistent and slightly obsessed."
In the 1990s, even in the world of development economics, worms were a second-order health issue behind the likes of polio and malaria. "Some people scratched their heads and said, 'What are you doing'?" Miguel recalled.
When they presented their results in Kenya around 2002, government officials including prime minister Raila Odinga became interested in deworming's low cost and a blueprint to implement programs through schools. (Deworming's quick and low-risk political mileage must surely also appeal to politicians.) Kremer explained, "It's the evidence that gets people involved. They think, 'Here's something we can do. We can fix it."
In 2009, with help from Deworm the World, 3.6 million children were dewormed through Kenyan schools. Today, the fact that tens of millions of children in Kenya and India are getting treatment is "mind-blowing" said Miguel.
However, the deworming campaigns are just one more important step. Momentum must be sustained; children should take deworming pills twice a year for several years if infection is high. "It's key for all stakeholders involved to not just do it once and walk away," said Alissa Fishbane, managing director of Deworm the World, in a phone interview from New York.
After Kenya's deworming campaign in 2009, there was a ministry-wide freeze the next two years. But this January in Davos, Prime Minister Odinga of Kenya promised to deworm five million children annually until 2017. Bihar is readying for the second round of deworming this May, and Delhi has pledged another deworming day this summer. "Government will take this on, they won't take it halfway," pledged Kiran Walia, Delhi's minister for women and child development, in an interview in Delhi in February.
Others hope lofty promises are fulfilled. Back in a poor section of north Delhi, mothers with young children crowded inside an anganwadi health center to receive deworming pills. Gita Gulati, a 50-year-old center supervisor, watched from a narrow lane between brick homes. "This program should have been started earlier," she said.
An earlier version of this article incorrectly referred to the location of the Indian state of Bihar; it is in the eastern part of the country, not the west. The article also misidentified ringworm as a soil-transmitted helminth. It is a fungal infection.

        
Keeping Artificial Limbs Low-Cost, and High-Quality
        
What Makes Community Health Care Work?
        
In Africa's Vanishing Forests, the Benefits of Bamboo
        
When the Drag Queens Go, the Neighborhood Follows
        
Africa's Girl Power

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); SCHOOL TRUANCY (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ANALGESICS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); MALNUTRITION (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); ANEMIA (68%) Africa; children; India; Medicine and Health; parasites; Worms; Children and Childhood; Hookworm (Parasite); Parasites; Third World and Developing Countries; Kenya; Fixes

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELHI, INDIA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTH INDIA (73%); BIHAR, INDIA (58%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (58%) INDIA (95%); KENYA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (69%) India; Kenya

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



129 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: Opinion Report: Day Laborers

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page. 

 BODY:
More than 50 municipalities across California have unconstitutional ordinances on the books that make it illegal for day laborers to solicit work from the sidewalk.
A federal district court judge ruled that the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, in its role as a government contractor, cannot impose religion-based restrictions on the use of taxpayer dollars.
The European Union's bailout fund is still too small.
In a speech on Tuesday, President Obama accused the Republican party of imposing on the country a "radical vision" that "is antithetical to our entire history as a land of opportunity."

        
Opinion Report: Marijuana Possession
        
The Meaning of Religious Freedom
        
Opinion Report: Stand Your Ground
        
Opinion Report: Student Loans
        
Opinion Report: The Tappan Zee Greenway

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (88%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (87%); BAILOUTS (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (86%); DEBT CRISIS (86%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (84%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); CANNABIS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (70%); EXTERNAL DEBT (65%); STUDENT LOANS (65%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%) Catholic Church; European debt crisis; Day Laborers; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); United States Conference of Catholic Bishops

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%) United States Conference of Catholic Bishops

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



130 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: SAP and the Data Analytics Speed Race

BYLINE: STEVE LOHR


HIGHLIGHT: SAP, the big German software company, has made an impressive, if late, entry to the emerging market for real-time data-analysis technology. Its real competitive advantage, analysts say, is the knowledge it has gained from its business applications stronghold, allowing it to show companies how to use "big data." 

 BODY:
SAP, the staid German software giant, turned 40 this week. But Hasso Plattner, the 68-year-old co-founder, talked about the present and the future in an interview. 
The big new thing, Mr. Plattner said, is the high-speed data analysis that is becoming possible because of parallel computing and in-memory processing. The data flood, of course, comes from both tame corporate databases and untamed - "unstructured," in industry jargon - data from Web pages, blogs, social networking messages and elsewhere.
The prospect of being able to process troves of data very quickly, in memory - without time-consuming forays to retrieve information stored on disk drives - is a big advance. "That makes it extremely fast," Mr. Plattner said. "You know more, faster. And that can change how a company or an organization does business."
The vision, then, is to do for data and knowledge what Moore's Law has done for computing hardware - that is, quantitative changes become qualitative transformations. Speed opens the door to new possibilities. You start out just crunching numbers but you find your way to "Toy Story." It's all just 1's and 0's at one level, but ever-faster computing and clever software make possible that new thing - a computer-animated movie, for example.
Today, speed is starting to put real-time analysis of varied kinds of data, a long-sought goal, within reach. "That's the next step," said Yvonne Genovese, an analyst at Gartner. "All the big enterprise software companies are chasing it," she said, mentioning I.B.M., Oracle, Hewlett-Packard and SAP. (There are plenty of others too, including EMC; the SAS Institute, the specialist in business analytics; and several start-ups.)
SAP is a late entrant, with its HANA in-memory database, which began shipping last year. But the system (sold in an appliance, with the hardware supplied by I.B.M., Hewlett-Packard, Cisco and others) has impressed analysts.
In a report last month, Richard Sherlund, an analyst at Nomura Securities, wrote that HANA was "not just a new database, this is potentially very market expanding, a new secret sauce to be leveraged in important new ways."
Customers are seeing the speed benefits. For example, T-Mobile is using HANA to mine data from stores, text messages and call centers on its 30 million customers in America to tailor personalized deals. Such deep data dives used to take a week, but with the SAP system they can be done in three hours.
SAP is the leader in business software that companies to use to monitor and manage operations like sales, procurement, manufacturing and accounting. "SAP has all that business process knowledge, a deep understanding of how businesses are run," said Joshua Greenbaum of Enterprise Applications Consulting. "That is potentially SAP's real competitive advantage, not just doing things faster but showing companies the new things they can do."
SAP, analysts say, is just getting started with HANA. The company's plans for its next steps should come on Tuesday, April 10, when SAP is holding a press conference in San Francisco. 

        
The Big Business of 'Big Data'
        
Apotheker's Choices at Hewlett-Packard
        
SAP Looks to Benefit From the Oracle Tempest
        
A Year of Belt-Tightening Ahead
        
Better Economic Forecasts, From the Cloud

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (92%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BIG DATA (90%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); DATA MINING (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (75%); TEXT MESSAGING (75%); COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (74%); PARALLEL COMPUTING (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); ANIMATION (65%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); CALL CENTERS (50%); ANIMATED FILMS (50%) big data; Enterprise Computing; Gartner; Hasso Plattner; Hewlett-Packard; IBM; Nomura Securities; Oracle; SAP; SAS Institute; Sherlund, Richard; SAP A.G; Germany; SAP A.G|SAP|NYSE; Data

COMPANY: SAP AG (92%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SAP A.G

TICKER: SAP (NYSE) (92%); SAP (FRA) (92%); SAP (BIT) (92%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%) SAP A.G; SAP; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (51%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%)

PERSON: Sherlund, Richard

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



131 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Cold Fusion: MKZ Reboots Lincoln Design

BYLINE: LAWRENCE ULRICH


HIGHLIGHT: Though based on the Ford Fusion, the MKZ is its own car, with no discernible 

 BODY:
Introduced on Wednesday, April 4: 2013 Lincoln MKZ.
What is it? Another effort to lure luxury buyers to the brand, this midsize Lincoln sedan is based on the stylish new Ford Fusion.
Is it real? A handsome, daring Lincoln sedan might seem a mirage, but the MKZ is real and a major element of Ford's plan to lead the brand out of the luxury wasteland.
What they said: "Today's audience doesn't remember the heritage of Lincoln," said Moray Callum, head of design for Ford in North America. Moray has a brother, Ian Callum, who knows a thing or two about kick-starting dormant styling, having led a critically acclaimed overhaul of Jaguar's frozen-in-amber designs.
Moray Callum said that Lincoln needed a similar blank-sheet approach: new, modern Lincolns "will have no visible connection to Ford at all. People will start believing we're serious."
What they didn't say: Whether fresher designs or marketing schemes like a 24/7 Concierge Service, which links live sales operators with prospects, will ever be enough to lure hip Audi-philes or rock-rib Lexus fans into a Lincoln showroom.
What makes it tick? Lincoln expects to forge class-leading fuel economy with the base model's 2-liter, 240-horsepower EcoBoost 4-cylinder engine and a hybrid powertrain adopted from the Ford Fusion. Big spenders can dial up 300 horses from a 3.7-liter V-6.
How much, how soon? The MKZ steps into dealerships this fall, likely to be priced around $34,000 to start.
How's it look? Nothing like the Fusion it is based on, a good idea for a brand that has spent decades slapping Lincoln badges on any Ford that would stand still. The brand's toothy bow-wave grille is finally scaled down to tasteful proportions; a fascinating, Volvo-like Kamm tail features the most aggressively protruding lip since Steven Tyler.

        
In New York, Lincoln MKZ Makes a Proposition
        
SRT Viper: An Ancient Serpent, Reskinned
        
Lexus ES Makes a Play for Sustained Segment Dominance
        
Mercedes-Benz GL-Class: A Rolling Fortress, but a Bit Less Thirsty
        
Chevrolet Impala: New Hides for an Old War Horse

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAR ENTHUSIASTS (90%); SEDANS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); HORSES (69%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (64%) Ford Fusion; Lincoln MKZ; New York Auto Show; Automobiles; New York International Auto Show; Ford Motor Company; Lincoln Division of Ford Motor Co; Ford Motor Company|F|NYSE; Auto Shows; New Cars

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Company; Lincoln Division of Ford Motor Co

TICKER: Ford Motor Company; F; NYSE

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



132 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Marimow to Return as Editor of Philadelphia Inquirer

BYLINE: DAVID CARR AND AMY CHOZICK


HIGHLIGHT: The longtime editor, who was moved out in 2010, returns to a newsroom shaken by layoffs and changes in ownership. 

 BODY:
William K. Marimow, who served as the top editor at The Philadelphia Inquirer from 2006-10, will rejoin the paper in the same role, the company said on Wednesday.
His appointment, effective May 1, comes two days after the Philadelphia Media Network, publisher of The Inquirer, The Daily News and Philly.com, was sold to a group of local investors.
The return of Mr. Marimow, a popular editor, two-time Pulitzer Prize winner and former investigative journalist, sends a strong signal of reassurance to an editorial staff that has been shaken by layoffs and repeated changes in ownership.
In recent weeks some reporters and editors have expressed concern that the new ownership group, a consortium of the Philadelphia area's most powerful business and political leaders, would try to influence coverage.
The newspapers frequently write about several members of Interstate General Media, the newly formed parent company. The group includes George E. Norcross III, a Democratic power broker in South New Jersey and the parking lot magnate Lewis Katz. Edward G. Rendell, the former Philadelphia mayor and Pennsylvania governor, assembled the ownership group six months ago, but is no longer a member.
In a statement Wednesday, Gregory J. Osberg, publisher and chief executive of the Philadelphia Media Network, said Mr. Marimow's return "reinforces the company's commitment to aggressive investigative reporting."
"The message today is that we are going to devote even more time and resources to reporting the high quality stories that our readers deserve and demand," Mr. Osberg said. "And to be clear: when the facts warrant it, nobody will get a free pass."
The current editor in chief, Stan Wischnowski, will remain at the newspaper in a senior editorial role, the company said.
On Monday, Interstate General Media paid $55 million, and a further investment of as much as $10 million in working capital, for the two papers and the Web site. The deal is the fifth time in six years that ownership has changed hands.
"These newspapers have an historic tradition of outstanding journalism in our city, and we want to preserve that tradition," Mr. Katz said on Monday.
Mr. Marimow, 64, is a part of that tradition. He first joined The Inquirer as a business reporter in 1972 and won Pulitzer Prizes in 1978 and 1985. He held several editorial positions, including editor in chief of The Baltimore Sun, before returning to The Inquirer as editor in chief in 2006.
In 2010, shortly after Mr. Osberg joined the company, he reassigned Mr. Marimow to a reporting position.
Mr. Marimow currently teaches journalism at Arizona State University.
"It will be a privilege to work alongside newsroom colleagues who have continued to produce great journalism despite the toughest economic conditions I've ever experienced," Mr. Marimow said in a statement.
His return came as a welcome surprise for many newsroom employees. "People in the newsroom love and respect him," said Amy S. Rosenberg, a staff writer at The Inquirer. But, she said, "we've been through a lot. We're just churning it out, whoever we work for."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); WRITERS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%); WORKING CAPITAL (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Marimow, William K; Osberg, Gregory J; Pulitzer Prizes; Philadelphia Daily News; Philadelphia Inquirer; Philadelphia Media Network; Newspapers

ORGANIZATION: Philadelphia Daily News; Philadelphia Inquirer; Philadelphia Media Network

PERSON: ED RENDELL (58%) Marimow, William K; Osberg, Gregory J

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



133 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Honda Crosstour: Conceptual in Name Only

BYLINE: JOHN R. QUAIN


HIGHLIGHT: The crossover shown in New York is essentially the car that is scheduled to go on sale this fall. 

 BODY:
Introduced on Wednesday, April 4: 2013 Honda Crosstour Concept.
What is it? A midcycle refresh of the Honda crossover, formerly part of the Accord family.
Is it real? Honda calls it a concept, but apart from some auto-show brightwork, it is, for all intents and purposes, your 2013 Crosstour.
What they said: To impart a more rugged character to the Crosstour, Honda simplified the fussy front end, added a visible skid plate, tacked on two-tone cladding and squared off the rear end. The Crosstour's clearance was also raised. "It gives it a stance that it didn't have before," Dave Marek, director of advanced design for Honda R&D America, said. The whole package is intended to compete against the likes of undecided wagon-crossovers like the Toyota Venza and Subaru Outback.
What they didn't say: "Does this new bumper make me look fat?" The back end affects a Panamera-like corpulence, while the higher stance and front skid plate communicate sturdiness, if not aggression. More technology will be added before the production car has its debut, including a suite of apps and streaming radio stations courtesy of Aha.
What makes it tick? The concept, as we're told to call it, has front-wheel drive with an option of all-wheel drive. There will be two powertrains: a re-engineered 3.5-liter, 24-valve V-6 and a 2.4-liter in-line 4-cylinder engine. The V-6 models will feature a 6-speed automatic transmission, with optional steering-wheel-mounted paddle shifters. The tamer 4-cylinder model will receive a 5-speed automatic transmission. Honda promised improved fuel economy over the existing Crosstour, but did not provide specific estimates, saying only that it would be "class-leading."
How much, how soon? No pricing was announced, but the production car is scheduled to ship this fall.
How's it look? More aggressive than the Subaru or Toyota, but not necessarily loud enough to make shoppers sit up and take notice.

        
In AMG's Go-Fast Machines, Start-Stop Gains Ground
        
2013 Subaru XV Crosstrek Will See Your Impreza and Raise It 9 Inches
        
From a Green Corner of the Auto Show, SRT Viper Earns an Unlikely Fan
        
For $279,000, Terrafugia Transition Puts the Wind Beneath Your Wings
        
In New York, Hyundai Doubles Down on the Santa Fe

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAR ENTHUSIASTS (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); STREAMING MEDIA (51%) Honda Accord Crosstour; Honda Crosstour; New York Auto Show; Automobiles; Honda Motor Co Ltd; Crossover; Honda Motor Co Ltd|HMC|NYSE; Auto Shows; New Cars

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Honda Motor Co Ltd

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (94%); HMC (NYSE) (94%); 7267 (TSE) (94%) Honda Motor Co Ltd; HMC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



134 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: April 4, 1968 | The Assassination of Martin Luther King

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: On April 4, 1968, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., 39, was shot to death in Memphis. 

 BODY:
On April 4, 1968, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., 39, was shot to death in Memphis by an escaped convict, James Earl Ray.
Dr. King, the acclaimed civil rights leader, arrived in Memphis on April 3 and delivered what would be the final speech of his life, now known as the "I've Been to the Mountaintop" address, in which he spoke of his own mortality. "Like anybody, I would like to live a long life - longevity has its place. But I'm not concerned about that now. I just want to do God's will. And he's allowed me to go up to the mountain. And I've looked over, and I've seen the promised land. I may not get there with you. But I want you to know tonight, that we, as a people, will get to the promised land."
The next day, while standing on the balcony of the Lorraine Hotel reportedly speaking with the civil rights leader Jesse Jackson, who stood below in the parking lot, Dr. King was shot. As The New York Times described the scene, "The Rev. Ralph W. Abernathy, perhaps Dr. King's closest friend, was just about to come out of the motel room when the sudden loud noise burst out. Dr. King toppled to the concrete second-floor walkway. Blood gushed from the right jaw and neck area. His necktie had been ripped off by the blast."
An emergency surgery failed to save Dr. King's life. He was declared dead about an hour after being shot.
News of Dr. King's death soon spread throughout the nation. At a campaign rally, Senator Robert F. Kennedy, a strong supporter of civil rights and a Democrat running for president, commemorated Dr. King in an address. "What we need in the United States is not division; what we need in the United States is not hatred; what we need in the United States is not violence or lawlessness; but love and wisdom, and compassion toward one another, and a feeling of justice toward those who still suffer within our country, whether they be white or they be black," he said. (Just more than two months later, Mr. Kennedy would also be killed by an assassin's bullet after a campaign appearance in California.) 
Riots broke out in many cities after the fatal shooting of Dr. King. The Times said that in Memphis, the "tragedy had been followed by incidents that included sporadic shooting, fires, bricks and bottles thrown at policemen, and looting that started in Negro districts and then spread over the city."
In the Times obituary published on April 5, 1968, Murray Schumach wrote: "To many million of American Negroes, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was the prophet of their crusade for racial equality. He was their voice of anguish, their eloquence in humiliation, their battle cry for human dignity. He forged for them the weapons of nonviolence that withstood and blunted the ferocity of segregation. And to many millions of American whites, he was one of a group of Negroes who preserved the bridge of communication between races."
The eventual convicted assassin, Mr. Ray, was arrested two months later in London's Heathrow Airport. He admitted to killing Dr. King and was given a life sentence. He later recanted and said that he had been set up. Mr. Ray died in prison in 1998.
The King family supported Mr. Ray's claims, believing that Dr. King may have been killed in a conspiracy because of his antipoverty and antiwar campaigns. By 1967, Dr. King had become the country's most prominent opponent of the Vietnam War, and a staunch critic of overall United States foreign policy. In his "Beyond Vietnam" speech delivered at New York's Riverside Church on April 4, 1967 - one year to the day before he was killed - Dr. King had called the United States "the greatest purveyor of violence in the world today." In its editorial on the speech, "Dr. King's Error," The Times criticized Dr. King for "link[ing] his personal opposition to the war in Vietnam with the cause of Negro equality in the United States."
In 1999, the King family won a civil suit against a Memphis restaurateur who was said to have hired a police officer to kill Dr. King. "The jury's decision," explained The Times, "means it did not believe that James Earl Ray fired the shot that killed Dr. King."
Connect to Today:
Dr. King's philosophy of nonviolence and commitment to economic and social justice remain influential 44 years after his death. In an August 2011 Op-Ed article, Prof. Cornel West reflected on Dr. King's legacy. He argued that Dr. King's concern for America's "four catastrophes" "racism, poverty, militarism and materialism," is as valid today as it was in the late 1960s and that the "age of Obama has fallen tragically short of fulfilling King's prophetic legacy."
What are your thoughts on Dr. King's legacy as it applies to the "four catastrophes"? Do you think he would "weep from his grave" as the headline of Dr. West's Op-Ed suggests, or would he have a more optimistic view of the United States in 2012? Why?
Learn more about what happened in history on April 4
Learn more about Historic Headlines and our collaboration with findingDulcinea 

        
Feb. 21, 1965 | Malcolm X Is Assassinated by Black Muslims
        
PUB-DATE: March 7, 1965
        
Slide Show | Times Photographs of the Civil Rights Era
        
Reader Ideas | Teaching the Civil Rights Movement
        
Oct. 14, 1964 | Martin Luther King Awarded Nobel Peace Prize

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (93%); SHOOTINGS (89%); ASSASSINATION (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); HISTORY (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); RIOTS (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (52%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (51%) assassinations; black history; Civil Rights; civil rights movement; Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.; leaders and leadership; Historic Headlines

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (95%); JESSE JACKSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



135 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Does Mitt Romney Really Abhor Europe?

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney clearly thinks there are votes to be won by comparing President Obama with the interventionist, welfare-loving leaders of Europe. But does he really mean what he says about Europe or is it a campaign ploy? And why do Europe's conservatives not like him? 

 BODY:
LONDON - Does Mitt Romney really not like Europe, or is it just politics?
When the former Massachusetts governor, in a primaries victory speech on Tuesday night, accused President Barack Obama of "laying the foundation for a new government-centered society," there is little doubt he had the European model in mind.
Europe has become a punch bag for Republican candidates in a campaign Mr. Romney now looks well-placed to win after three primary victories on Tuesday night.
Mr. Obama has been branded as a "European" by his G.O.P. rivals in the same way that some opponents once suggested he was a Muslim. And Mr. Romney has led the pack in what has become a theme of his campaign.
"He wants to turn America into a European-style entitlement society," Mr. Romney said of the president back in January. "We want to ensure that we remain a free and prosperous land of opportunity."
In a victory speech after he won the New Hampshire primary on Jan. 10, the candidate added: "This President takes his inspiration from the capitals of Europe; we look to the cities and small towns of America."
Maybe it was not the best way to win friends and influence people across the Atlantic, but then he has few allies there. Europe's predominantly center-right governments, which might once have been counted as natural allies of the Republicans, are gushingly pro-Obama.
"Center-right parties hold office just about everywhere in Europe," Philip Stephens wrote in The Financial Times. "Yet it is a struggle to find leaders who would admit, even privately, to be crossing their fingers for Mitt Romney."
David Cameron, the Conservative prime minister in Britain's coalition government, did not meet Mr. Romney or any of his Republican rivals in an official visit to Washington last month that focused on his warm relationship with the president.
There was a similar love fest last year when Mr. Obama lavished praise on Angela Merkel, the visiting German chancellor, describing her as "a good friend and one of my closest global partners."
The Tea Party intensity and Christian fundamentalist fervor of some sections of the new Republican party do not easily translate into European terms. For Mr. Stephens, the gulf between conservatives on either side of the Atlantic was "as much about cultural dissonance as policy disagreements." 
Other commentators find Mr. Romney's vision of Europe something of a caricature. Martin Hutchinson, writing from New York on Tuesday for Reuters Breakingviews, said: "Europe is mostly unrecognizable from the U.S. Republican rhetoric."
Referring to anti-European statements from all the leading Republicans, he wrote: "The monolithic pejorative works to a point but conveniently overlooks the many economic achievements throughout the Continent."
In any event, Mr. Romney's anti-Europeanism may be just a campaign expedient. After all, he spent three years in France as a Mormon missionary and was even attacked by Newt Gingrich, his Republican rival, for his ability to speak French. 
Some European commentators even think he may be on to a good thing with the Europe-bashing. 
Clive Crook, a Briton writing for The Atlantic, claimed after Mr. Romney's New Hampshire speech that the Democrats really did seek to move the United States in a European direction. "Best of all, from the Republican point of view, they are generally embarrassed to admit it." 
American voters saw their country as a model for the rest of the world, not the other way around, Mr. Crook wrote. "Nobody will ever be elected president of the U.S. on a pledge to make the country more like France."

        
Inside Republican Primary Zaniness, Actual Debate
        
An Essay Contest to Solve the Euro Crisis?
        
Europe's Economy Is Eating Its Young, and It's About to Get Worse
        
Beware, We're Having a Heat Wave
        
A Start-Up in Greece Ensnarled in Red Tape

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%) europe; Mitt Romney; Republican primary; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Europe; Politics; View From Europe

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); DAVID CAMERON (79%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012



136 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2081 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
Regulators Expected to Penalize JPMorgan Over Lehman Collapse | When Lehman Brothers collapsed at the height of the financial crisis, JPMorgan Chase was at the center of the storm. The bank was a major lender to the firm, which filed the biggest bankruptcy in United States history.
Now, more than three years later, regulators are set to penalize JPMorgan for actions tied to Lehman's demise, according to people briefed on the matter. It will be the first federal enforcement case to stem from Lehman's downfall.
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is expected to file a civil case against JPMorgan this week. The bank is expected to settle the Lehman matter and pay a fine of approximately $20 million. While the penalty is significant for the agency, the sum is little more than a rounding error for a bank as large as JPMorgan.
The Lehman action stems from the questionable treatment of customer money -- an issue that has been at the forefront of the recent outcry over MF Global. JPMorgan was also intimately involved in the final days of that brokerage firm.
The trading commission is expected to accuse JPMorgan of overextending credit to Lehman for two years leading up to its bankruptcy in 2008, the people briefed on the matter said. DealBook 
 DEAL NOTES
Rakoff Isn't All Toughness | Judge Jed S. Rakoff, who recently clashed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is set to preside over the criminal case of Rajat K. Gupta, is known for his combativeness, but he also has a playful side, Bloomberg Markets Magazine reports. He writes musical sketches for his courthouse's Christmas revue, and takes ballroom dancing lessons with his wife. BLOOMBERG MARKETS
From Russia With Cash | Wealthy Russians are consistently spending large sums on luxury real estate in the United States, with newly minted billionaires eager to park their fortunes outside the government's reach, The New York Times reports. One such buyer, Dmitry Rybolovlev, worth an estimated $9 billion, was behind the purchase of Sanford I. Weill's penthouse at 15 Central Park West for $88 million, a record sum for a New York City apartment. NEW YORK TIMES
New Ways to Fly Private | Companies that operate private jets are expanding their options beyond the traditional business of selling shares in aircraft, offering products like a "debit" card that allows customers to fly as much as they want, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
British Utility Rejects GDF Suez's $9.5 Billion Offer | The British utility International Power has rejected a $9.5 billion offer from the French energy giant GDF Suez for the 30 percent stake in the British company that it does not already own. DealBook 
In StarBev Deal, Molson Bets Big on Growth | Molson Coors had been looking to raise its profile in international markets. And StarBev, whose markets include the Czech Republic and Croatia, was a perfect target. DealBook 
US Airways Said to Push for a Merger With American | US Airways has been trying to convince some American Airlines creditors of the value of a merger, saying a combination could yield more than $1.5 billion a year, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Yahoo Plans a Round of Layoffs | Yahoo is dismissing about 2,000 employees on Wednesday, according to people inside the company, the Bits blog reports. NEW YORK TIMES BITS
Advertising Agency to Sell Stake | MDC Partners, an agency holding group, is buying a minority stake in Doner, an independent advertising agency with about $1 billion in billings, for an initial amount of about $15 million to $20 million, with the option of increasing the stake to a majority, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Dodgers Deal Involves Real Estate | Television rights alone may not be enough to justify the price tag for the Los Angeles Dodgers, Bloomberg News reports, as the new owners may also need to wring value from the real estate surrounding the stadium. BLOOMBERG NEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Moody's Downgrades General Electric | The ratings agency cited risks from the conglomerate's finance unit, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Bank Earnings Expectations Are Said to Be Too Rosy | Analysts at KBW said banks were unlikely to live up to investors' expectations, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Salaries Rose for Most in Survey | A survey by eFinancialCareers.com of 2,860 financial professionals found that 54 percent said their base salaries increased in 2011, and 40 percent reported no change from the previous year, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
R.B.S. Said to Pull Bond Deal | In February, the Royal Bank of Scotland canceled a $207 million sale of bonds backed by derivative trades, as investors lacked an appetite for the deal, Bloomberg News reports, citing three unidentified people briefed on the matter. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Fitch Dropped From a Deal | The chief executive of Fitch said Credit Suisse dropped the ratings agency from a mortgage-backed security when it took a more negative view than rivals, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Citigroup to Get a New Lawyer | Rohan S. Weerasinghe, from the law firm Shearman & Sterling, is set to become Citigroup's new general counsel, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
Jefferies Head of Equities Said to Depart | Jason Griffith, who has been at Jefferies since 2006, is leaving, Bloomberg News reports, citing two unidentified people briefed on the situation. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Loan Portfolio in Germany Attracts Interest | More than 100 perspective buyers are examining a $740 million portfolio of performing loans on American properties held by the German bank Eurohypo, Reuters reports. REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Buyout Firms Tap Public Markets | Private-equity-backed I.P.O.'s this year, which have raised $6 billion, have constituted 35 percent of the world's I.P.O. deals, the most since 2000, according to Dealogic, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
Kravis Calls for a Tax Overhaul | Henry R. Kravis of K.K.R. said that changing the tax system would be "the only way we are going to get this economy going," Reuters reports. He did not weigh in on the carried interest tax debate. REUTERS
Setback for a Real Estate Firm | After finding it was unable to raise new funds, Liquid Realty Partners is laying off its entire investment staff, the chief executive said in a letter to investors, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
In Footnote, Carlyle Hints at Size of I.P.O. | The Carlyle Group, the large private equity firm, indicated that it might sell 10 percent of its shares in its initial public offering, a disclosure buried on page 197 of its revised prospectus. DealBook 
HEDGE FUNDS 
Greece Confronts Holdout Investors | A small group of investors, representing probably 2 or 3 percent of the private holders of Greek debt, is betting that Athens will pay them back in full. Among them are Aurelius Capital Management and Elliott Associates, according to officials involved in the debt deliberations, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Hedge Funds Turn Confrontational in India | A legal battle being waged in India by the Children's Investment Fund comes as hedge funds in the country are increasingly adopting activist tactics, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
A Holdout in Drydocks Restructuring | Drydocks World of Dubai said it had participation in its restructuring from all creditors but one, the hedge fund Monarch Alternative Capital, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Hedge Fund's Fine Is Raised | Pentagon Capital Management was ordered to pay nearly $100 million, after being initially told to pay $76.8 million as part of an investigation into abusive trading of mutual fund shares, The Telegraph reports. TELEGRAPH
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Burger King to Return to Public Markets | Just 18 months after being taken private in a leveraged buyout, Burger King Worldwide Holdings plans to list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange. DealBook 
S.E.C. Is Said to Be Looking Into Exchanges | As part of an investigation into high-speed trading, the Securities and Exchange Commission is looking at types of orders offered by exchanges like Direct Edge Holdings and BATS Global Markets, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
GT Capital Looks to Raise $505 Million | GT Capital Holdings, a Philippine conglomerate that is the holding company of the billionaire George Ty, is planning what could be the largest I.P.O. in the Philippines since 2010, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Groupon Sued by a Shareholder | An investor has accused Groupon of issuing materially false and misleading statements about its financial health, and is seeking class-action status on behalf of shareholders, Reuters reports. REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Benchmark Capital Invests in Education Start-Up | The venture capital firm is investing $25 million in the Minerva Project, an online education program that calls itself "the first elite American university launched in a century," The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
German Firm Raises $100 Million for a Fund | Earlybird Venture Capital said it planned to use its new fund to focus on deals in German-speaking Europe; it has attracted investors including the private equity group of Deutsche Bank, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
'Gamification' Platform Raises $5 Million | BigDoor, which allows Web sites to incorporate gamelike features, attracted a funding round led by the Foundry Group, TechCrunch reports. TECHCRUNCH
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
American Lawyer to Revise Dewey's Financials | The American Lawyer magazine plans to revise the last two years of financial results for Dewey & LeBoeuf, the New York law firm struggling with a wave of partner departures. DealBook 
Court Says Madoff Victim Can't Redo Terms of His Divorce | A decision by the New York Court of Appeals ended one of the most unusual lawsuits resulting from Bernard L. Madoff's huge Ponzi scheme, in which a man was allowed to sue his former wife to alter the terms of their divorce. DealBook 
Review Finds Possible Flaws in More Than 138,000 Bank Foreclosures | An independent review has flagged thousands of cases for possible flaws in the foreclosure process at the nation's largest mortgage servicers. DealBook 
Regulator Designates Some Nonbanks as 'Systemically Important' | The vote by the Financial Stability Oversight Council brings it closer to regulating some hedge funds, private equity firms and insurers, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Chinese Prime Minister Says Banks Should Be Broken Up | Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China said on Tuesday that the country's large state-run banks are too powerful and earn too much money, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
From Congress, a Law Befitting a Sausage Factory | The JOBS Act illustrates a lack of knowledge about financial markets, and may end up hurting them -- just the opposite of what Congress intended, the Deal Professor writes. Deal Professor 
Morgan Stanley Ordered to Compensate Borrowers | The Federal Reserve told Morgan Stanley to review foreclosures carried out by its former Saxon unit, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Europe Opens Antitrust Cases Against Motorola Mobility | The competition office of the European Union began investigating Motorola Mobility for possible abuse of its patents, after Microsoft and Apple complained, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
MF Global Employees in Britain Seek Compensation | Employees of the failed brokerage's British unit are seeking 39 million ($62 million) in unpaid compensation, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Fed Signals No Bold Action | Minutes from the recent meeting of the Federal Reserve's policy-making committee suggest the central bank does not plan to support new asset purchases unless economic growth falters, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Facebook Accuses Yahoo of Infringing on Patents | In responding to Yahoo's original intellectual property lawsuit, Facebook argued that the Web pioneer had violated patents that covered some 80 percent of its revenue last year, amounting to more than $4 billion. DealBook 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); SECURITIES LAW (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); FUTURES (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); MERGERS (70%); CHRISTMAS (63%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (62%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (60%); DANCE (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); GDF SUEZ SA (81%); INTERNATIONAL POWER PLC (80%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (55%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%); GSZ (PAR) (81%); GSZ (BIT) (81%); TAP (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (81%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (81%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (81%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (81%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (80%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (80%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (50%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (50%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (50%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (50%)

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



137 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1981 words

HEADLINE: A Conversation With: Nikki Haley

BYLINE: SHIVANI VORA


HIGHLIGHT: The South Carolina governor on her Sikh roots, women in politics and why she won't be vice president. 

 BODY:
The book traces her life from when she was Nimrata Nikki Randhawa, a young girl in the rural town of Bamberg, S.C., with her three siblings and parents who are immigrants from Amritsar, India. In the book she chronicles her ascent into politics, starting with her election to the state legislature, and her successful run for governor in 2010, when she was just 38.
There is drama along the way: the discrimination her family dealt with, her religious conversion to her husband Michael Haley's faith, ex-Gov. Mark Sanford's unexpected departure to Argentina, and the ugliness surrounding her race for governor. Ms. Haley won in the end, thanks in part to powerful backers including the Tea Party, Sarah Palin and Mitt Romney, whom she went on to endorse for his presidential run.
A year and change into office, Haley is seen as a rising star in the Republican Party, despite wavering support from some members in the Tea Party and criticism over proposed tax breaks for online retailing behemoth Amazon.com.
She lives in the governor's mansion with her husband, an officer with the South Carolina Army National Guard and their two children Rena, 13, and Nalin, 10, but was in New York City this week to promote the memoir. Over breakfast, she spoke about changing her religion, her future in politics and the problem with Washington today.
Q.
Let's start by talking about the title of your book. How did "Can't Is Not An Option" became your personal motto?
A.
When you grow up with the challenges I did, that's the motto I lived by. My parents always used to tell us not to complain about things, but do something about them so "Can't is not an option" was almost a way of life.
Q.
The story where you and your sister were disqualified from a beauty pageant in Bamberg as kids because you were neither black nor white is well known. Can you share another story about discrimination you dealt with?
A.
Another story that I talk about in the book is when I was playing kickball, the other kids wouldn't play with me unless I picked a team, which basically meant picking a race: Am I black or am I white? Issues like that kept coming up throughout my childhood and into adulthood. A white legislature would call me a "raghead," and a black legislature would call me a "conservative with a tan." But I can say I am proud of the fact that South Carolina rose above that and that I'm in a state that elected a 38 year-old Indian-American female for governor.
Q.
How do you maintain a connection to your Indian roots today?
A.
I was raised by the Indian community, and those families are still very close to us. We used to go to each others' houses one Sunday a month, so we got to know everyone well. Also, we love Indian food and can't get enough of it. But ultimately my connection to my Indian-ness comes back to my mom and dad. They would all tell me and my siblings stories about their life in India so it was very close to my two brothers and my sister and I.
Q.
Is it more difficult to embrace your Indian heritage as a Republican in South Carolina?
A.
Not at all. It's such a natural part of me, and I see it as who I am and what defines me. The cultural side of it has stayed very close to me.
Q.
You speak a lot in your book about how proud you are of your roots and your Indian culture, yet you converted to Christianity. Can you speak more about that conversion? You say the teachings of Christ spoke to you in a way that you could understand and that would help you live your life. Did you ever read Hindu scriptures such as the Bhagavad Gita or the Sikh scripture Guru Granth Sahib?
A.
I did read Indian scriptures when we could get the English versions, but the problem was I never took the time to learn the language. Really, what it comes down to is that I knew the emotion of faith, I knew what my parents were trying to teach me, but we always said "no" when my mom was trying to teach us Punjabi. Now I wish we had learned, but that is why I think I made the transition.
I understood the language, I understood what it was saying and so much of what Christianity brought. With the Sikh faith, I understood the feeling of the faith, but I never understood the words so that's really what it was. Michael and I talked about bringing up our children, and it was just natural that this was the religion that spoke to me.
Q.
Do your kids have a connection to Indian culture at all?
A.
They go to the Gurdwara whenever my mom and dad ask them to. They love Indian food, and they are very close to their grandparents.
Q.
How did your parents react to the conversion?
A.
My parents actually never said much. In Bamberg, we were brought up with everyone trying to convert us. It was like "You have to go to church or you're going to hell." My mom would actually take us to the churches and say "I want you to pay attention to this because everyone has their way to God." She is the one who taught us that you can't have too much God in your life.
So when I had the conversion, they never questioned it, they never said anything, and that's why I'm so protective of them because during the campaigns, people wanted me to deny the Sikh faith or say something negative about it, and I would never do that because those are the people who raised me. The way they raised me was perfect, and it made me who I am.
We chose Christianity because of the way we wanted to live our life and raise our children -- it had nothing to do with me thinking there was anything wrong with the way I was raised, and everything to do with the fact that I am moving forward in my life and had to find a path I felt was right for me.
Q.
You and Sarah Palin seem to have developed quite a connection when she endorsed your race for governor. Why do you think you naturally clicked?
A.
I didn't know we would connect the way we did. We were talking as we were riding in the car. I was telling her my stories, and she would say she had been through that, too. So much of it was that we realized we had a lot in common. But it is also about being moms and wives and daughters and talking about the impact on the family [of public life] and the challenges. She told me that once you start to gain steam, they are going to start attacking you and once they start attacking you, they will never stop even after you win.
She was so right.
Q.
The New York Times reported recently about Republican women who are unhappy with the party's recent focus on women's health care choices and birth control. How should the party be reaching out to women and what could it do better?
A.
If Republican women feel that way, Republican women need to do something about it. I fight for the things that I care about which are jobs and the economy. I fight for the things I think are important which are reducing the debt and getting more companies to come to South Carolina.
It is the responsibility of us to get things done. Don't complain about it, do something about it. I don't have a lot of tolerance for whining. You either work hard and you get it done or you don't. If there are women that don't think Republicans are focused on that, they need to voice their opinion. So much of it is just knowing the power of your voice.
Q.
Why do you endorse Mitt Romney for president?
A.
I didn't want to support anyone that was part of the chaos of Washington, and I wanted someone that had been on the other side of government who actually knew what it was like to create jobs and watch when businesses struggle. He was the governor of a liberal state [Massachusetts] that had 85 percent Democratic legislature, and he was able to work with them to cut taxes 19 times and balance his budget. To me, that's what we need in Washington. The hardest part about my job has been D.C. -- they have stopped us on everything we have tried to do. For me as a governor, every time I take two steps forward, Washington sets me back a step, and I wanted to know that there was a partner there who would understand that, which Romney does.
Q.
How has Washington set you back?
A.
We passed voter ID where you had to show a picture ID to vote, and the Department of Justice has stopped us. We had Boeing in Charleston, and that was such a great shot in the arm for us, and President Obama and the National Labor Relations Board stopped us. We passed illegal immigration reform, and the Department of Justice has stopped us.
Everything we keep doing, they keep saying, "No you can't do it" after we have passed it. For a bill to become law, it truly has to be the will of the people, and for a president to stop the will of the people and stop what you're trying to do in your state is not the role of Washington. Every state is supposed to be able to do what's right and what the people want and it's an overstep and intrusion that we constantly feel.
Q.
You've said that you're not interested in being a vice presidential running mate in the election later this year. Would you seriously not consider a run if you were asked? And why do you say you're not interested?
A.
I would say no. How could I do that to the people of the state? They took such a chance on me and gave me the opportunity to show them what work I can do. It is my responsibility to finish the job that I've been given. It would be wrong to leave it.
Q.
What about down the line? What are your future goals and ambitions?
A.
I've never been a planner. I didn't know I was going to run for the State House. I didn't know I was going to run for governor. I don't know what's next, and I love not thinking about it because the doors open at a certain time. If you had told us [Michael and I] 10 years ago that elected office would be in our life, we would have both laughed. I don't think past today.
Q.
Why are there so few women of your generation in high level politics?
A.
It's not because the challenge is too hard. It's simply because women don't run. The reason I actually ran for office is because of Hilary Clinton. Everybody was telling me why I shouldn't run: I was too young, I had small children, I should start at the school board level. I went to Birmingham University, and Hilary Clinton was the keynote speaker on a leadership institute, and she said that when it comes to women running for office, there will be everybody that tells you why you shouldn't but that's all the reasons why we need you to do it, and I walked out of there thinking "That's it. I'm running for office."
Q.
Do the next generation of Republican leaders at the state level, like you and Bobby Jindal, have a fundamentally different approach to governing than the previous generation?
A.
We are very thoughtful in terms of thinking about our state even after we're gone. So we have a business plan in terms of not just this year and next year but what it's going to look like 10 and 20 years from now. It's not just what you do while you're there, it's how you leave it when you walk away.
Q.
You're active on Twitter and Facebook and regularly post YouTube videos. Is this kind of communication key today for politicians?
A.
It helps me keep a pulse on the public and what they're thinking, and it's an outlet for fun. Sometimes I throw some music on there because I've heard a great song or I'll talk about what the kids did today. We use it as an outlet for the family to let people know what we're like when we're not working, but we have found people to be very responsive to it.
Q.
You're still very young, especially in the world of politics. What compelled you to write your memoir now?
A.
When I ran and when I won, I was absolutely shocked at the number of people that came up to me and told me that after seeing what I went through, they would never run for office, and that devastated me because that was the total opposite of what I wanted people to take away. It was at that point that I told Michael that we had to tell my story of this little Indian girl who went through challenges all her life and became governor of the greatest state in the country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); RELIGION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); FAMILY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CHILDREN (77%); WOMEN (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); ARMIES (69%); INTERNET RETAILING (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%); TAX LAW (52%) Haley, Nikki; Palin, Sarah; Romney, Mitt; Politics and Government; State Legislatures; Tea Party Movement; House of Representatives; Justice Department; Republican Party; India; Massachusetts; South Carolina; Washington (State)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Justice Department; Republican Party

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%)

PERSON: NIKKI HALEY (94%); SARAH PALIN (88%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); MARK SANFORD (58%) Haley, Nikki; Palin, Sarah; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); PUNJAB, INDIA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); ASIA (73%) India; Massachusetts; South Carolina; Washington (State)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



138 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: More on the Mandate

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Notes on my Sunday column. 

 BODY:
My Sunday column made one point that I'd like to slightly amend. Discussing the individual mandate, I wrote: "The provision is unpopular enough that it's unlikely to survive in the long run even if Anthony Kennedy flips a coin and decides to uphold it." In reality, it depends on what you mean by "survive." If Mitt Romney wins the presidency, the mandate will probably be repealed outright. If Barack Obama is re-elected, on the other hand, I would expect it to endure at least for a time, but as a poorly enforced, widely flouted, easily exploited, and generally derided aspect of American law. As it stands, the mandate already depends on a norm of law-abidingness to make its provisions work, because the penalty is small enough that people could actually save money over the long haul by paying the fine until they get sick and then taking advantage of guaranteed issue to buy insurance. Over time, I doubt that norm will hold (what worked in Massachusetts, a liberal state with a small uninsured population, is not necessarily going to work in a nation of 300 millions), and I doubt the penalty will ever be raised. So even if the mandate technically survives, the combination of non-enforcement, non-compliance and inflation will gradually make it all-but-meaningless as policy.
My column has also been criticized by Buzzfeed's Ben Smith for its claim that the inclusion of the mandate succeeded in blunting insurance industry opposition to the health care bill, even if the big insurers ultimately came down against the legislation. Smith accuses me of perpetuating "the myth ... that the mandate effectively bought off the insurance industry." But I didn't argue that it bought them off outright: I just argued that it made the health care bill sufficiently palatable to them that they focused most of their efforts on making sure it didn't include a public option and trying to keep the mandate penalty as stiff as possible, rather than opposing the legislation outright from the beginning. (The blogger Karl at HotAir has gone a coupleof rounds with Smith on this subject, and I recommend his posts on the subject.) And my broader point wasn't specific to the insurance business: The mandate-regulate-subsidize structure made the bill very friendly to the health care industry as a whole, and the support from a broad array of industry groups was crucial to its passage.
Finally, Ezra Klein writes that I left out a big reason that the White House and Congressional Democrats embraced the individual mandate: Because they had reason to think it would bring Republicans on board. But they thought that it would bring Republicans on board in large part because they assumed - and, yes, various leading G.O.P. politicians gave them reason to assume - that if insurers and pharmaceutical companies and hospital groups liked the provision, Republican lawmakers would like it as well. And what happened instead - the speed with which Republicans turned against a policy that some of them had backed in the past - is only partially explained by raw partisanship and the DeMint-ian desire to deal Obama a defeat. It's also explained by the fact that Republicans began listening to voters (independent as well as right-wing) as well as to their interest groups, and decided to put grassroots opinion ahead of what their donors wanted them to do. (Ramesh Ponnuru has a very perceptive post on this subject.)
So yes, Klein is right, the mandate was designed to (somewhat cynically) co-opt Republicans in the same way that it (somewhat cynically) co-opted industry players. But I only wrote about the latter aspect of the White House's strategy because I was writing about that strategy's political cleverness, and it was only the latter aspect that actually succeeded.

        
The Politics of the Mandate
        
Structure, Not Numbers
        
The Right and Romney
        
The Essence of Obamanomics
        
Romney the Inexorable

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); LIBERALISM (72%); HEALTH CARE (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%) Barack Obama; corporatism; Domestic Policy; Health Care; Republicans

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (57%); MITT ROMNEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



139 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: Looking for the Next Generation in Private Equity

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A handful of men who reign over the private equity industry are now in their 60s, but they have set forth no clear succession plans. 

 BODY:
Over the last few decades, a handful of deal makers have reigned over the private equity industry, wielding vast influence over Wall Street and, more broadly, the world economy.
Now in their 60s and billionaires several times over, these men - Stephen A. Schwarzman of the Blackstone Group, Henry R. Kravis of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, David M. Rubenstein of the Carlyle Group and Leon D. Black of the Apollo Management Group, chief among them - are surely ready to pass the baton to the next generation.
Yet none plan to step aside any time soon. These founders all answer the succession question virtually the same way. They insist that despite their advancing ages, they are not going anywhere. And, in any case, they say that they think constantly about succession and have plenty of executives who are more than capable of leading their businesses.
"Retirement is unnatural for workaholics, but passing the mantle is not," said Mr. Rubenstein, 62. He started Carlyle 25 years ago and still runs it with two other co-founders, William Conway, 62, and Daniel D'Aniello, 65. The peripatetic Mr. Rubenstein spent more than 180 days on the road last year.
"There is no one at Blackstone who, if they were hit by a bus tomorrow, the firm wouldn't continue on unimpaired," Hamilton E. James, 61, Blackstone's president, said. "And that includes me and Steve."
Today, now that these private equity shops are big publicly traded companies (or, in the case of Carlyle, about to go public), shareholders and investors want to know: who will run these companies when they do step aside?
Though the founders have set forth no clear succession plans, they say the concern is overblown. And the Wall Street analysts who follow the companies largely agree.
"There is certainly key-man risk, but when it comes to next-generation leadership, there is a significant talent pool in place below the founding principals," said Roger Freeman, an analyst with Barclays Capital.
But who is this deep bench of talent that may someday run these companies?
The answer to this question is more than just Wall Street gossip. It has enormous implications for corporate America and global business.
There are 14,200 companies in the United States that are backed by private equity firms, according to the Private Equity Growth Capital Council, the industry's trade group. Companies backed by private equity employ about 8.1 million people worldwide, the council says. State pension funds have billions of dollars of retirees' money invested with private equity funds.
And while these businesses are still a small fraction of the size of the largest banks, they have become big, global operations. The largest private equity firms, a group that includes Bain Capital and TPG, now oversee more than just their cornerstone multibillion-dollar buyout funds. They have become diversified money managers that also run hedge funds, real estate businesses and other investment operations around the world.
Along with these changes, a next generation of deal makers has gradually emerged from the shadows of the founders.
On paper, private equity's new guard is a homogenous bunch. A composite sketch looks more or less like this: A man - and they are almost all men - in his early- to mid-40s with a degree from either the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania or Harvard Business School. Some started at the companies right out of college. But most worked for a few years as an investment banker, typically at Goldman Sachs or Morgan Stanley, before joining in the mid-1990s just as the private equity industry was taking off.
Consider Jonathan D. Gray, 42, the head of Blackstone's global real estate business. He joined the company straight out of Penn and never left, leading Blackstone's emergence as one of the world's largest property investors. This year, Mr. Gray joined the company's board, a clear signal that he is a possible successor to Mr. Schwarzman.
At K.K.R., a number of names have emerged as contenders. Last year, at the company's investor day at the Pierre Hotel in Manhattan, Mr. Kravis, 68, made it clear that he and his co-founder and cousin George R. Roberts, also 68, were still in charge, while also sending the message that K.K.R. was no longer just the Henry and George Show.
"George and I hear about succession all of the time, and we're not quite sure why," deadpanned Mr. Kravis.
"You're going to hear from about 15 people today and you will see the kind of quality, the people that we have, the deep bench, the strengths that they have, and there's no question that any number of these people can lead K.K.R. once George and I step down, which I have to say to you is, hopefully, in the distant future," Mr. Kravis said.
Among the speakers: Scott C. Nuttall, 39, who oversees several of the company's businesses and serves as a point person for the Wall Street community; Joseph Y. Bae, 40, head of K.K.R. Asia: Marc S. Lipschultz, 43, who runs energy investments, and Alexander Navab, 46, a senior buyout executive.
At Apollo, Mr. Black's two top lieutenants are his co-founders, Joshua J. Harris, 47, and Marc J. Rowan, 49. The two worked with Mr. Black at the investment bank Drexel Burnham Lambert before it collapsed in 1990. They started Apollo that same year.
What private equity executives and investment bankers say about the emerging leaders is that, as a group, they lack the founders' outsize personalities and tendency for conspicuous consumption that at times have hurt the industry's image.
Having amassed extraordinary wealth, the founders have also become some of the country's leading philanthropists. In 2008, Mr. Schwarzman donated $100 million to the New York Public Library, whose main building is now named after him. Mr. Kravis recently pledged $100 million to Columbia Business School. Mr. Rubenstein donated $7.5 million this year to help repair earthquake damage to the Washington Monument.
"It takes a certain personality type to be a founder," said a senior private equity executive who spoke only on the condition of anonymity because he did not want to risk alienating any of the founders."It's got its great strengths, but the high profiles and great wealth can keep an unwanted spotlight on the industry. I suspect the new leadership will probably fly more below the radar."
Still, these younger private equity executives are starting to make headlines for their extracurricular pursuits. Mr. Harris of Apollo and David S. Blitzer of Blackstone led a group last fall that bought the Philadelphia 76ers basketball team for $280 million. Mr. Bae of K.K.R. received attention a few years ago when he led a group that paid $129,000 for a giant white truffle from Italy at a children's charity event.
A nagging problem facing the big private equity companies is how to retain their top talent when the leaders show no signs of moving on. Some companies, like Warburg Pincus and Advent International, have already made a leadership transition to the younger generation, but the largest ones have not.
"I think a number of these firms do not feel the pressure of having to identify successors," said Mr. James of Blackstone. "Their founders expect to be in their seats a long time. And that has implications for your up-and-coming talent because there isn't enough succession at the moment. If the brass ring is too far away, your best people will leave."
To keep the brass ring near, Blackstone and others have been placing their highly regarded executives in leadership roles as they expand into new businesses and markets.
Last year, for instance, Blackstone moved Michael S. Chae, 43, one of its top deal makers in the United States, to Hong Kong where he now heads the Asian private equity operations. Mr. Blitzer, 42, a Blackstone senior executive, was put in charge of a new multibillion-dollar investment portfolio for the New Jersey state pension fund. The companies have also recruited senior financial services executives from the outside into leadership roles.
A year ago, Apollo brought on Marc Spilker, 47, a former co-head of asset management at Goldman Sachs, as its president. K.K.R. has brought on William C. Sonneborn, 42, a former president of the asset manager the TCW Group, to build a traditional money management arm. Carlyle last year hired as its chief financial officer Adena Friedman, 42, formerly the chief financial officer of Nasdaq.
Four years ago, Blackstone acquired GSO Capital Partners, a hedge fund that invested in distressed debt and other fixed income securities. Today, Bennett J. Goodman, 55, the co-founder of GSO, oversees about $46 billion in credit-related assets for Blackstone. Mr. Freeman, the Barclays analyst, said that while the lack of upward mobility could eventually become an issue, if the founders pick a clear successor, they risk having the also-rans leave.
"If anything, retention is a bigger issue than succession," Mr. Freeman said.

        
Battle of the Buyout Kings: Who Took Home the Most in 2011?
        
Judge Widens Antitrust Suit Against Private Equity Firms

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (94%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); SUCCESSION PLANS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); PENSION FUNDS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (68%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%) Adena Friedman; Advent International; Alexander Navab; Apollo Global Management; Bennett J. Goodman; Blackstone Group; Carlyle Group; Daniel D'Aniello; David M. Rubenstein; David S. Blitzer; George R. Roberts; Hamilton E. James; Harvard Business School; Henry R. Kravis; Jonathan D. Gray; Joshua J. Harris; Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company; Leon D. Black; Marc J. Rowan; Marc S. Lipschultz; Marc Spilker; Philadelphia 76ers; Private Equity Growth Capital Council; Scott C. Nuttall; Stephen A. Schwarzman; Warburg Pincus; Wharton School; William C. Sonneborn; william conway; Private Equity; Apollo Management LP; Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co; The Blackstone Group; Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania; The Blackstone Group|BX|NYSE; Financial Services; Special Section Spring 2012

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (84%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (74%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); APOLLO ADVISORS LP (58%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (57%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); PHILADELPHIA 76ERS (59%) Apollo Management LP; Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co; The Blackstone Group; Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (84%); BX (NYSE) (74%); APO (NYSE) (57%); CG (NASDAQ) (57%) The Blackstone Group; BX; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (74%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (74%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%)

PERSON: WILLIAM E CONWAY JR (88%); HENRY KRAVIS (73%); DANIEL D'ANIELLO (72%); LEON BLACK (71%); JONATHAN GRAY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



140 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Obama Signs Bill Banning Insider Trading by Federal Lawmakers

BYLINE: ROBERT PEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The ethics law bans insider trading by members of Congress and requires thousands of federal employees to disclose information about their personal finances. 

 BODY:
President Obama on Wednesday signed an ethics bill that bans insider trading by members of Congress and requires thousands of federal employees to disclose information about their personal finances.
The signing came 10 weeks after Mr. Obama called for such legislation in his State of the Union address.
In signing the bill, Mr. Obama said he hoped it would reduce "the corrosive influence of money in politics'' and help cure "the deficit of trust between this city and the rest of the country.''
As a result of the legislation, Mr. Obama said, "if members of Congress use nonpublic information to gain an unfair advantage in the market, they are breaking the law.''
The bill had broad bipartisan support, illustrated by the presence of Senator Scott P. Brown, Republican of Massachusetts, on stage with Mr. Obama when he signed the bill.
Mr. Obama praised Representative Louise M. Slaughter, Democrat of New York, who introduced the first version of the legislation in 2006 and had been fighting for it since then. The president said Ms. Slaughter was not at the signing ceremony because she broke her leg this week.
The bill -- the Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge Act, or Stock Act -- was approved in the House in February by a vote of 417 to 2. The Senate agreed to it by unanimous consent after voting
96 to 3 to end debate on the measure in late March.
"We have made clear today that nobody is above the law and that members of Congress must play by the exact same set of rules as every other American," Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, Democrat of New York and an architect of the legislation, said.
On Thursday, Mr. Obama plans to sign another bipartisan bill, which would make it easier for small companies to raise money from investors. Members of both parties said the measure would help create jobs and strengthen the economy.
Senator Brown said the two bills showed "what a bipartisan approach can accomplish, even in a Congress infamous for its divisions and gridlock."
The new law prohibits members of Congress from trading stocks and other securities on the basis of confidential information they receive as lawmakers. It makes clear that the insider trading ban in
federal law applies to members of Congress and their aides and to officials in the executive and judicial branches of the federal government.
In addition, the law requires members of Congress to disclose the purchase or sale of stocks, bonds, commodities futures and other securities within 45 days of transactions, rather than once a year as they now do. The information will be posted on the Internet.
Thousands of federal agency officials, including many at the White House, will be subject to similar reporting requirements. The law also requires members of Congress and executive branch
officials to disclose the terms of mortgages on their homes and prohibits them from receiving special access to initial public stock offerings.
An earlier Senate version of the legislation would have required "political intelligence'' firms to register as lobbyists do. The new law calls instead for a one-year study of such firms, which collect information on Capitol Hill and sell it to hedge funds, mutual funds and other investors.
Mr. Obama urged Congress on Wednesday to act on two other proposals, which he described this way in his State of the Union address: "Let's limit any elected official from owning stocks in
industries they impact. Let's make sure people who bundle campaign contributions for Congress can't lobby Congress, and vice versa.''

        
2008: Primary Maneuvers
        
The Senate on Ethics
        
Obama Repeats Call to End Oil Subsidies
        
'Socialists.com' Yields a Presidential Result
        
Santorum Calls Romney 'Worst Republican' to Run Against Obama

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSIDER TRADING (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); ETHICS (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BONE FRACTURES (74%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); BONDS (73%) barack obama; Ethics; stock ACT; Congress; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); LOUISE MCINTOSH SLAUGHTER (73%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (58%); SCOTT BROWN (58%); SHERROD BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



141 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: When the Truth is Not Enough

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: As he tries to sustain a waning presidential campaign, Rick Santorum has resorted to lying in his attacks on Mitt Romney. 

 BODY:
A health care legacy that bears striking resemblance to the one Obama is currently defending to the Supreme Court. Views on explosive issues like gay marriage and abortion that are opaque at best. The Etch a Sketch remark. There are still so many legitimate ways that Rick Santorum can attack Mitt Romney. Why would he bother lying? 
Yet that's exactly what he did in his latest attack ad. It ran before yesterday's Wisconsin primary (which Mr. Santorum lost, anyway). He lied about almost everything. Let's count the ways.
"What if I told you this man's big-government-mandating health care included $50 abortions and killed thousands of jobs, would you ever vote for him?" asks a benign-looking blond lady in red, for republican. (They show a photo of President Obama because the gimmick is that they act like they're going to talk about President Obama, but really it's Mitt Romney. Get it?)

She continues, "What if I told you he supported radical environmental job-killing cap and trade and the Wall Street bailouts? And what if I told you he dramatically raised taxes and stuck taxpayers with a $1 billion shortfall?"
Naturally, images of conservative rallying points like fetuses and windmills abound. 
As Jeremy W. Peters reportsin The Times, "Mr. Santorum is not the first to misleadingly tie Massachusetts's public funding of abortions to Mr. Romney." But while the state does cover abortions under Medicaid, it has done so since a court decision dating from 1981. Mr. Romney became governor of Massachusetts in 2003, which falls after 1981, except maybe on the Santorum calendar, or perhaps the Mayan calendar.
Then there's the matter of jobs. When Romney began his tenure as governor, he'd inherited a massive budget gap and an economy that was hemorrhaging jobs. (Sound familiar?) By the time he left, the state was adding jobs and had a budget surplus, all without raising sales or income taxes.
I'd say Rick Santorum jumped the shark with this one, but that happened a long time ago and he keeps on swimming.

        
Mitt Romney and the Strange GOP View of Government
        
Exit Bad Obama, Enter Good Obama
        
Santorum's Super Tuesday Message: Romney Is a Liar
        
Michigan Seems Like a Dream to Me Now
        
Rick Santorum and the Politics of Theology

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ABORTION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (87%); MEDICAID (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); GOVERNORS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); POLITICS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); MARRIAGE (73%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (73%); BAILOUTS (69%); RELIGION (50%) Barack Obama; Massachusetts; Mitt Romney; Presidential Election of 2012; Rick Santorum; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); RICK SANTORUM (91%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



142 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Santorum Shrugs Off Criticism That His Campaign Is 'Irrelevant'

BYLINE: KATHARINE Q. SEELYE


HIGHLIGHT: Rick Santorum responds to Senator John McCain's double-barreled criticism of his campaign. 

 BODY:
CARNEGIE, Pa. -- Rick Santorum reacted with equanimity Wednesday to Senator John McCain's criticism that his presidential campaign has become irrelevant.
"I've endured about eight months of people saying that," he said, shrugging, as he spoke to reporters after he ate a hearty breakfast at Bob's Diner in this small, blue-collar town west of Pittsburgh.
"Everyone has been asking me from the days I was traveling around in the 'Chuck truck' in Iowa to get out of the race," he added. "I've never been the party establishment's candidate, and that holds true to today and that's nothing new."
Back in his home state, Mr. Santorum had hoped to start his campaign anew on Wednesday morning after losing all three primaries on Tuesday. But he awoke to Mr. McCain, a fellow Republican, delivering a double-barreled criticism of him on CNN.
Mr. McCain said Mr. Santorum's continued presence in the race was irrelevant. In a bit of a contradiction, he also said Mr. Santorum's continued presence was holding back the party -- and its presumed nominee, Mitt Romney -- from focusing on beating President Obama. 
"The fact is that every day that goes by without being in the general election campaign mode is a day lost," said Mr. McCain, who was the Republican presidential nominee in 2008.
Mr. McCain was only the latest in a rising number of Republicans who want Mr. Santorum to cease and desist.
But Mr. Santorum was having none of it. He has declared the campaign for Pennsylvania, the state he represented in Washington for 16 years, the beginning of the second half of the primary season. "We have to win here and we are planning on winning here," he said Wednesday.
His plan, basically, is to win the popular vote in Pennsylvania on April 24 -- Mr. Romney expects to win at least half of the delegates -- and hope that that will build momentum for him to capture Texas, which votes in late May.
If Texas delegates are awarded on a winner-take-all basis, he said, he hits the jackpot.
"You throw those 154 delegates on our pile and all of a sudden this race becomes a very different race," he said.
The fact is, Mr. Santorum is lagging so far behind Mr. Romney in delegates now that even if he won all of those from Texas -- which has not decided for sure whether to move to a winner-take-all system -- he will still trail Mr. Romney and not be able to claim the nomination himself. But he might be able to stop Mr. Romney from claiming the nomination and force the party to a brokered convention in August.
But even Pennsylvania is not a sure win for Mr. Santorum. Pennsylvania voters rejected him in 2006 in his bid for a third term in the Senate. He was asked Wednesday why they should vote for him this time.
One reason, he said, is that the state has seen what happens "when you give control to the hard left," citing Mr. Obama's health care and energy policies. He accused the administration of trying to "shut down" the gas industry, an important part of the Pennsylvania economy, by trying to "overregulate it and kill the goose that's laying the golden egg here in western Pennsylvania."
But he also offered his biography as a reason people here should support him.
He said he was "someone from a blue-collar, working-class town in Butler, Pa.," who grew up in western Pennsylvania and clawed his way up through the political process, "never being anybody's favorite, always being the underdog, always being someone that was discounted."
He added: "I think folks in Pennsylvania for a long time have admired that story and can relate to that story. And I think they will again in this election cycle."
One reporter posited to Mr. Santorum that if he got out of the race now, he could be a leading contender for his party's nomination next time.
"Next time?" Mr. Santorum asked with slight incredulity. "You haven't talked to my wife, obviously."
Ah, reporters asked, so was he ruling out running next time?
"The last thing we're thinking about," he said, "is next time."

        
In Poll, Santorum Is Ahead of Romney in Pennsylvania
        
Despite Illinois Loss, Santorum Rallies Forces at Gettysburg
        
Disruption Closes a Missouri Caucus Before Vote
        
Where Are the Republican Elder Statesmen?
        
On Fox, Romney Says He Is Misunderstood

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%) john mccain; Pennsylvania; Presidential Election of 2012; rick santorum; romney; McCain, John; Santorum, Rick; The Caucus

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) McCain, John; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (88%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



143 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Defections Continue at Dewey & LeBoeuf

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The latest departures add to the virtual decimation of Dewey's insurance practice, which has lost more than 20 partners. Insurance has long been regarded as one of the firm's premier practices. 

 BODY:
Six more partners resigned on Wednesday from the beleaguered New York law firm Dewey & LeBoeuf.
James R. Woods, a co-chairman of the firm's global insurance industry practice, has left for Mayer Brown.
John M. Nonna, a litigator specializing in insurance disputes, leads a group of lawyers leaving Dewey for Patton Boggs, including the insurance group partners Larry P. Schiffer and Eridania Perez.
Peter A. Ivanick, a bankruptcy partner specializing in insurance, is moving to Hogan Lovells, while Lawrence M. Sung, a patent lawyer in Washington, is departing for Baker Hostetler.
In addition to the departing partners, Suman Chakraborty, of counsel at Dewey, will become a Patton Boggs partner.
The moves by Mr. Woods and by Mr. Nonna's group add to the virtual decimation of Dewey's insurance practice, which has lost more than 20 partners. Insurance has long been regarded as one of the firm's premier practices.
Of Dewey's 300 partners, 46 have left the firm in 2012, after last year's disappointing financial performance led the firm to slash the compensation of many of its partners. Compounding its problems, Dewey also overextended itself by aggressively hiring star lawyers away from rival firms with lucrative multiyear guarantees.
Dewey revamped its management last week in an attempt to stabilize itself. It stripped Steven H. Davis of the title of chairman and replaced him with a five-person office of the chairman. The firm's leaders have also said that many of the departures were expected and that a substantial number of those who left were underperformers.
"We have said for weeks now that there would be additional departures, both at the firm's insistence and from professionals who didn't feel they fit in with the new structure of the firm," the firm said in a statement on Wednesday. "These departures, like the ones before them, will not have a negative economic impact on the firm. When we put the new structure of the firm together, it was with the anticipation that while it still would be a major international firm in terms of scope, size and practice areas, it would be somewhat smaller in terms of the number of professionals."
In spite of the departures, several of Dewey's practice areas continue to thrive.
Richard E. Climan, a mergers and acquisitions lawyer for Dewey in Silicon Valley, has advised Dell on several large recent acquisitions, including its purchase this week of Wyse Technology. And Dewey has served as bankruptcy counsel to the Los Angeles Dodgers and advised the team on its sale agreement, announced last week, to a group that includes the former basketball star Magic Johnson.
Mr. Nonna said in an interview that Patton Boggs presented him and his colleagues with a great opportunity. He said he still held his soon-to-be-former firm in high regard.
"I think there are some really some outstanding lawyers at Dewey with some strong practices, and I think they are committed to the firm and surmounting these challenges," Mr. Nonna said.
On Tuesday, The American Lawyer, a magazine, said it planned to revise Dewey's last two years of financial results, which it publishes in its Am Law 100 rankings. The American Lawyer said the changes were the result of discrepancies between the numbers that Dewey reported to the magazine earlier this year and the figures published in recent news reports.
For instance, the magazine said that Dewey's management had told the magazine that the firm collected $935 million in revenue in 2011, but that the actual figure was about $782 million.
Dewey issued a statement to The American Lawyer saying that it saw no need for the magazine to restate its numbers, which it defended as accurate. The firm said it had used a different methodology than the one used by the magazine.

        
American Lawyer to Revise Dewey's Financials
        
Dewey & LeBoeuf Loses Four More Lawyers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (92%); INSURANCE (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL INSURANCE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); LITIGATION (73%); PATENTS (70%); BASKETBALL (62%); BASEBALL (60%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%) American Lawyer; Baker & Hostetler; Dewey & LeBoeuf; Hogan Lovells; law firms; Mayer Brown; Patton Boggs; Legal Profession; Patton Boggs LLP; Legal/Regulatory; Revolving Door

COMPANY: PATTON BOGGS LLP (92%); DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (92%); MAYER BROWN LLP (91%); BAKER & HOSTETLER LLP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Baker & Hostetler; Dewey & LeBoeuf; Hogan Lovells; Patton Boggs LLP

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



144 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: For Gates-Like Wealth, Look Beyond Wall Street

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: The chances of up-and-coming financiers breaking into the billionaires' club are slim, but that's nothing new: Wall Street has rarely generated the wealthiest of the wealthiest. 

 BODY:
Get out your smallest violin.
It is harder than ever to become one of the world's wealthiest individuals by working on Wall Street.
Profits are getting crimped as new regulations put the brakes on some of Wall Street's riskiest - and most lucrative - practices. Compensation is falling. And stocks, a large part of industry pay, are under pressure.
In this environment, the financial industry is unlikely to be minting new billionaires anytime soon.
But that's nothing new. Wall Street has rarely generated the wealthiest of the wealthiest.
Just take a look at any of the various lists of the top 10 richest individuals in the world. None of them work on Wall Street. Not one. Most of them were entrepreneurs (or relatives of entrepreneurs) who built businesses like Microsoft, Oracle and Wal-Mart Stores.
While Lloyd Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, and Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, may be examples of Wall Street's freewheeling ways, they are more 1 percent than 0.01 percent. Sandy Weill, the architect of Citigroup, lost his billionaire status after the financial crisis.
On Wall Street, the founders of hedge funds and private equity firms have collected the truly outsize paydays. Think George Soros (worth $20 billion), John Paulson ($12.5 billion), Carl Icahn ($14 billion) or Stephen Schwarzman ($5.5 billion).
But the chances of up-and-coming financiers breaking into the billionaires' club are slim. The so-called alternatives industry - once the entrepreneurial corner of finance - now looks more like a staid, established financial firm. With most of the money flowing to the biggest players, it's harder for upstarts to break into the business and make the big money.
The next generation of big wealth creators is more likely to know Sand Hill Road in Silicon Valley or the Bund in Shanghai - like Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook and Robin Li of Baidu.
None of this is meant to suggest that Wall Street has not made a lot of money - or that top financial executives will not continue to take home large seven-figure paychecks. Over the last 30 years, Wall Street has churned out loads of millionaires, and some billionaires, too. Taken together, the financial industry has put more wealth in more hands than just about any other business (even technology). But it has rarely made anyone Bill Gates-rich.
To really understand the opportunities for - or the obstacles to - creating great wealth on Wall Street today, it is worth reading a study by Thomas Philippon and Ariell Reshef of the National Bureau of Economic Research, which traces industry wages over the last century. Its conclusion might not surprise you: financiers, to put it plainly, were overpaid.
The authors even quantified it. By their calculations, "30 to 50 percent of wage differentials" - the difference between an average worker's income and that of a Wall Street financier - is the result of overpayment and "can be expected to disappear." The study, "Wages and Human Capital in the U.S. Financial Industry: 1909-2006," provides a striking history lesson that may prove to be a predictor of what Wall Street - and compensation - may look like over the next 30 years.
Before the Great Depression, the researchers found that the finance sector "was a high-skill, high-wage industry." After the stock market crash, "a dramatic shift occurred," the study said, as Wall Street's "human capital" and "wage premium" started to decline. From 1950 to 1980, the trend continued, albeit at a "more moderate pace."
"By that time, wages in the financial sector were similar, on average, to wages in the rest of the economy," the study said.
Then something curious happened. After 1980, the finance sector returned to its roots, handing out large paychecks to highly skilled workers. By 2006, the authors found, "relative wages and relative education levels went back almost exactly to their pre-1930s levels."
What the authors did not mention in that passage was why wages changed so markedly. Now, go back and look at the dates again. Most periods coincided with great changes in industry regulation.
After the Depression, the advent of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Glass-Steagall Act made Wall Street more boring. And the industry trudged along in much the same manner until the 1980s, when lawmakers began to dismantle those rules.
Now, policy makers are scrambling to draft new rules under the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul enacted in the wake of the financial crisis. If Mr. Philippon and Mr. Reshef are right, Wall Street is likely to be boring again.
It may be good for the financial system, but bad for would-be billionaires in finance.
An earlier version of this article misidentified a Baidu co-founder. He is Robin Li, not Richard Li. 

        
Goldman Gives Blankfein $7 Million Stock Award
        
A Big Bet on Zuckerberg

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BONDS (78%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (78%); DEREGULATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Ariell Reshef; Baidu; Bill Gates; Carl Icahn; Citigroup; Facebook; George Soros; Goldman Sachs; Jamie Dimon; John Paulson; JPMorgan Chase & Co.; Lloyd C. Blankfein; Mark Zuckerberg; Sam Walton; Sanford I. Weill; Thomas Philippon; Blankfein, Lloyd C; Dimon, James; Gates, Bill; Soros, George; Weill, Sanford I; Zuckerberg, Mark E; Banking and Financial Institutions; Entrepreneurship; Private Equity; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Wages and Salaries; DealBook Column; Special Section Spring 2012

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); WAL-MART STORES INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); WMT (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (93%); BILL GATES (90%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (90%); SANDY WEILL (90%); JAMES DIMON (90%); GEORGE SOROS (86%); CARL ICAHN (70%) Blankfein, Lloyd C; Dimon, James; Gates, Bill; Soros, George; Weill, Sanford I; Zuckerberg, Mark E

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012



145 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: New York Fed May Sell More of Its A.I.G. Assets

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: The Federal Reserve Bank of New York said Wednesday that it was considering selling pieces of a final special entity created to hold assets once owned by the American International Group. 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York said on Wednesday that it was considering selling pieces of a final special entity created to hold assets once owned by the American International Group. If it is carried out, the move would further unwind the insurer's government bailout.
The financial vehicle, Maiden Lane III, was created in 2008 to hold $24.3 billion worth of credit-default swaps that A.I.G. once owned. Those swaps were among the instruments that nearly brought the insurer to its knees, leading to the government's huge $182 billion lifeline.
The New York Fed's new plan is to sell off assets in that portfolio if a particular offer represents a good value and does not disrupt the financial markets, a spokesman for the regulator said in a statement.
It follows the disposal of a similar entity, Maiden Lane II, earlier this year through asset sales. A.I.G. has also taken additional steps to pay off its government obligations, including sales of $6 billion worth of stock and the paying down of an additional $1.5 billion.
"The change in the investment objective for Maiden Lane III reflects a strategic decision to explore possible sales of some of the assets in the portfolio in light of improving market conditions and the success of the Maiden Lane II sales," the New York Fed spokesman, Jack Gutt, wrote in an e-mail to DealBook.
Previously, the New York Fed had sought to unwind the portfolio over time, rather than selling off pieces of it. To begin sales of Maiden Lane III securities, however, the regulator needed to change the financial entity's investment objective to one that allowed for sales.
Mr. Gutt declined to comment on whether the New York Fed had received any offers for Maiden Lane III's assets. 

        
House Panel Seeks to Quiz Geithner on A.I.G.
        
A.I.G. Repays Additional $1.5 Billion to Government

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%) American International Group; Credit Default Swaps; Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Financial Crisis; Maiden Lane III; American International Group Inc; American International Group Inc|AIG|NYSE; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (95%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: American International Group Inc; Federal Reserve Bank of New York

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%) American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (95%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (95%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012



146 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Examines Fine Print in a Bill for Start-Ups

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG and BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The JOBS Act would roll back some major securities regulations. 

 BODY:
Wall Street is examining whether it will benefit from a little-known section of a broad new law that President Obama is expected to sign on Thursday.
Provisions tucked into the so-called JOBS Act, or the Jumpstart Our Business Startups, will roll back some major securities regulations and parts of a landmark legal settlement struck almost a decade ago. That 2003 settlement built a Chinese wall between Wall Street research analysts and investment bankers, an effort to prevent analysts from improperly promoting stocks to help their firms drum up business from corporate clients.
Under the new legislation, some of those restrictions would be eased when it comes to smaller companies, so-called emerging growth companies.
 Wall Street senses an opportunity. Davis Polk, a large law firm that caters to Wall Street, wrote in a recent note to clients that the JOBS Act represented "the most significant legislative loosening in memory of restrictions around the I.P.O. process and public company reporting obligations."
Almost every big bank on Wall Street, including Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Bank of America, is poring over the provisions, which some firms say will open a new front on their business model. Several firms contacted Wednesday said they were studying the JOBS Act and were eager to see how regulators would begin to interpret the legislation. One Wall Street executive familiar with the JOBS Act but who declined to be named said the law would give firms "more flexibility" in covering emerging companies.
The new legislation passed through Congress over the objections of regulators, past and present, who warned of the potential risks to investors.
"It is a bad sequel to a bad movie," said Eliot Spitzer, the former New York attorney general. "It shouldn't be called the JOBS Act, it should be called the Bring Fraud Back to Wall Street Act."
Mr. Spitzer was a crucial architect of the 2003 settlement, struck after the dot-com bubble, when investors lost millions of dollars investing in companies that regulators later claimed were improperly hyped by analysts. In some cases, analysts would privately disparage the same stocks they were telling investors to buy, including in one e-mail where an analyst called a security a "piece of junk."
Regulators contended that analysts were influenced by their investment banking colleagues who were seeking to win lucrative business from these hot companies. The settlement, some aspects of which were echoed in the Sarbanes-Oxley law and in regulations, barred any communication between bankers and analysts unless accompanied by a compliance officer, a move aimed at reducing the influence of bankers on the research.
There is concern that the JOBS Act will unwind this provision for emerging growth companies, those that have less than $1 billion in annual revenue. Lawmakers argued that the current restrictions have stifled the ability of start-up companies to raise capital and amplify their profile.
The JOBS Act also will allow banks to publish research reports about these companies while the bankers are helping take them public. The potential conflict here, regulators say, is that bankers might use research to drum up interest in the stock, which is then often sold to retail investors.
This new provision would have covered a broad range of companies that went public during the tech boom - popular start-ups like Pets.com and Webvan - which later foundered. It would have also affected a number of start-ups that have recently gone public - or are considering a public offering. LinkedIn, the professional social networking site that went public in 2011, reported annual revenue last year of $522.2 million. Pandora Radio, another big name that recently went public, reported revenue for fiscal 2012 (year ended January 2012) of $274.3 million.
Underwriting the initial public offerings of companies like these is a big business on Wall Street. Firms like Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs stand to make millions of dollars in fees when Facebook goes public this year.
Despite the apparent opportunities available in the new legislation, Wall Street is proceeding with some caution. For instance, some big American banks have told regulators in recent weeks that they were not likely to start doing research on companies that were candidates to go public, a person briefed on the matter said. The banks, the person said, are mindful that investors will sue them if they can show that analysts drafted intentionally deceptive research.
Before taking any actions, the banks are first seeking guidance from a cavalry of lawyers.
"All of the investment banks will likely want to be looking at the policies and procedures they have in place relating to research and research-investing banking interactions and trying to reconcile those with the JOBS Act," said Glenn R. Pollner, a capital markets partner at Gibson Dunn who is advising clients on the JOBS Act. "Among other things, there is some uncertainty here as to how expansively or narrowly the S.E.C. and Finra will interpret the provisions of the JOBS Act relating to research and investment banking interaction."
For one, the global settlement, and its broader rules of the road for analysts, is still technically intact.
Lawyers are advising the banks to tread lightly until the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street's self-regulator, acts. Regulators on Wednesday said they were scanning the new law, and deciding the next steps to take.
Finra will likely relax some of it rules to comply with the JOBS act, but the regulator has not yet a timetable for finalizing any changes. The Securities and Exchange Commission is unlikely to have to change any of its rules.
Still, the JOBS Act appears to loosen financial communication more broadly. For instance, the bill will relax rules on how investment firms can market themselves to the public, reversing regulations that restrict what hedge funds and private equity firms can say publicly about their investment strategy.
Regulators were against the JOBS Act from the beginning. When the measure cleared hurdles in the House, the Securities and Exchange Commission scrambled to stop it in its tracks.
The law will "weaken investor protection," Mary Schapiro, chairwoman of the S.E.C. warned last month.
"We should not walk backwards here," she said. "Collusive behavior between analysts and bankers cost investors huge sums, shattered confidence in the integrity of research, and damaged the markets themselves."
The JOBS Act is far reaching and also exempts emerging growth companies from certain disclosure and governance requirements for up to five years. It will also provide a new form of financing to start up companies.
Through what is known as crowdfunding, or the sale of small amounts of stock to many individuals, companies could solicit equity investments through the Internet or elsewhere, raising up to $1 million annually without being required to register the shares for public trading with regulators. Some see this as a big deal for entrepreneurs who can now sell their ideas without having to find a big financial backer. Others say this provision will bring a return to the boiler rooms of the days gone by where brokers peddled worthless stock to unassuming investors.
"It's almost an experiment of sorts," said Richard Roberts, a former S.E.C. commissioner who now represents companies affected by the JOBS Act. "If any parts are a disaster, Congress can change it."
Robert Glauber, former head of the National Association of Securities Dealers, the precursor agency to Finra, and a lecturer at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government, says the 2003 accord was a "legal settlement" and a legislative modification is "perfectly appropriate."
 "A sweeping prohibition of certain behavior never made sense," he said. "Easing the restrictions for a select group of companies will give us a chance to see if it provides useful information to the marketplace without investor abuse. The key is to make sure the banker-analyst relationship is properly disclosed and that the S.E.C. carefully monitors the effects of the change." 

        
With Facebook, Morgan Stanley Wins Bragging Rights
        
DealBook's Week in Review

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SECURITIES LAW (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); STARTUPS (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (79%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%) conflict of interest; Eliot Spitzer; Facebook; Finra; Goldman Sachs; Initial Public Offerings; JOBS Act; JPMorgan Chase &; Mary L. Schapiro; Morgan Stanley; Pandora Radio; pets.com; Securities and Exchange Commission; Wall Street; Webvan; Spitzer, Eliot L; Banking and Financial Institutions; Financial Brokers; Law and Legislation; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Start-ups; Financial Industry Regulatory Authority; Financial Services; I.P.O./Offerings; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Private Equity; Top Headline 1; Venture Capital

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%) Financial Industry Regulatory Authority; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (89%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (50%) Spitzer, Eliot L

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



147 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1651 words

HEADLINE: 'Embarrass the Future'?

BYLINE: LINDA GREENHOUSE


HIGHLIGHT: The decision on strip searches showed there are tensions within the Supreme Court that may play a role in its decision on health care. 

 BODY:
 Nothing in the Supreme Court arguments in the health care case last week, or in the subsequent commentary, has changed my opinion that this is an easy case. It's the court that made it look hard.
I don't mean the torrent of wisecracks at the government lawyers' expense from Justice Antonin Scalia, who despite his clownish behavior in channeling the Tea Party from the bench is surely smart enough to know the difference between broccoli and health care. Rather, I mean the tough but fair questions from the members of the court who actually seemed to be wrestling with the issues: Justices Anthony M. Kennedy and Samuel A. Alito Jr. and Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. The Affordable Care Act will be upheld if least one of these justices is satisfied that the briefs, the arguments, and his own judicial perspective provide sufficient answers to the questions.
By the end of the arguments, Chief Justice Roberts and, to a lesser extent, Justice Kennedy were heading in that direction, it seemed to me. While they might have initially seen the government's defense of the law as a slippery slope, leading from hospital emergency rooms to the vegetable bin, they appeared increasingly concerned by the implications of the plaintiffs' arguments as well. They seemed particularly alarmed by the categorical position put forward by Michael A. Carvin, the lawyer representing the small-business plaintiffs, who argued that a victory for the government would mean that Congress could "regulate every human activity from cradle to grave."
The chief justice's responses to Mr. Carvin included such rejoinders as "I don't think that's fair" and "I don't think you're addressing their main point, which is that they are not creating commerce in health care. It's already there." Justice Kennedy, suggesting that "most questions in life are matters of degree" - as opposed to the plaintiffs' all-or-nothing position - seemed to endorse the government's argument that the market for health care has unique features that separate it from the various hypotheticals and analogies buzzing around the courtroom.
I'll get back to health care. But first I want to consider the court's remarkable performance this week in the case on whether the Constitution bars strip searches of newly arrested people in the absence of any reason to suspect that they are concealing dangerous items or contraband. By a vote of 5 to 4, with an opinion by Justice Kennedy, the court answered no. Clear enough.
But beyond that headline take-away, there is more to this decision, Florence v. Board of Chosen Freeholders. I don't know what the back story is, but I've parsed enough Supreme Court opinions over the years to know that there is one. What the external evidence suggests is an internal struggle. Argued back in October, the Florence case was the oldest argued case on the court's docket by the time the decision came down on Monday. (By way of contrast, 5 of the 11 cases argued in January have already been decided, some of them weeks ago.) Surely something was going on during these last six months.
Justice Kennedy's opinion proceeded in five parts. Parts 1 and 2 recited the facts and precedents that the majority deemed relevant. Part 3 contained the analysis, and Part 5 stated the conclusion. What's intriguing is Part 4. This section offered an important qualification to the holding. There may be exceptions to the rule, Justice Kennedy said. Keeping a detainee out of the general prison population "may diminish the need to conduct some aspects of the searches at issue." Searches that involve touching - as those at issue in the case did not - may raise "legitimate concerns." There was no need to get more specific, Justice Kennedy said, because "these issues are not implicated on the facts of this case."
His opinion was joined in full, including Part 4, by Chief Justice Roberts and Justices Scalia and Alito. Both the chief justice and Justice Alito wrote concurring opinions to "emphasize the limits of today's holding," as Justice Alito put it. "It is important for me that the court does not foreclose the possibility of an exception to the rule it announces," Chief Justice Roberts wrote. Clearly, these two justices were troubled by the implications of the decision, and wanted its limits to be understood.
Among this edgy majority, one voice was missing: that of Justice Clarence Thomas. "Justice Thomas joins all but Part IV of this opinion," a footnote on the first page informs us. But Justice Thomas couldn't be bothered to explain himself, at least not in public. Presumably he shared his thoughts at some point with his colleagues. We're left to infer that what he wanted was a bright-line rule that would admit no exceptions, no circumstance under which a strip search might be so uncalled-for as to violate the Fourth Amendment's prohibition of unreasonable searches.
Was this a position that Justice Thomas wanted to maintain without having to defend it in writing? Earlier in his tenure, he wasn't shy about advocating extreme positions, such as his dissenting opinion in a 1992 case, Hudson v. McMillian, on whether inmates have a constitutional right not to be beaten by prison guards. The majority held that the Eighth Amendment's prohibition on cruel and unusual punishment could apply regardless of the severity of any resulting injury. Justice Thomas said the Eighth Amendment protected inmates against only "serious injury" at the hands of their jailers, not against "a use of force that causes only insignificant harm."
By refusing on Monday to sign Justice Kennedy's Part 4, Justice Thomas deprived his colleague of a majority for the full range of his opinion, and without explanation. This was a wildly uncollegial act, violating the court's norm that votes come with reasons. I suspect that the court's center of gravity in this case, if not the actual opinion assignment, seesawed during the months of consideration. Of course, I don't know whether Justice Kennedy wrote his Part 4 as the price of retaining the support of Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Alito. Might one or both have otherwise joined Justice Stephen G. Breyer's powerful dissenting opinion and thus flipped the outcome? Or did Justice Breyer start out with a majority that he then lost as Justice Kennedy offered a softer version of an initial position?
All as tantalizing as it is unknowable from the outside. The larger point - the relevance to the health care case - is that there are obviously tensions and even rifts within the Supreme Court that don't map readily onto the one-dimensional 5-to-4 narrative. This is the challenge facing Chief Justice Roberts as he tries to lead the court to an outcome. While I expect the statute to survive, I also have two other predictions. One is that however the case comes out, the chief justice will be in the majority and will write the controlling opinion. I don't say "majority opinion" because I don't think there are five justices who will necessarily agree on a common rationale for their agreed-upon result. In addition, or as an alternative to upholding the individual mandate as an exercise of Congressional authority under the Commerce Clause, some may prefer to treat the individual mandate as a tax, squarely within Congress's taxing power. Others may invoke the "necessary and proper" clause of Article I, Section 8. Consider that a court that spent nearly six months on the strip search case has barely three months before the end of the current term to decide the future of health care.
The chief justice's concurring opinion in the strip search case, only three paragraphs long, is interesting for a reason beyond what it might suggest about intramural stress. Here is the final paragraph:
"The court makes a persuasive case for the general applicability of the rule it announces. The court is nonetheless wise to leave open the possibility of exceptions, to ensure that we not 'embarrass the future.' "
"Embarrass the future"? The quote, from a 1944 opinion by Justice Felix Frankfurter in a tax case, is usually offered to mean that the court shouldn't encumber itself by declaring solutions to problems that have yet to emerge. Maybe that's all the chief justice meant. But John Roberts is both a careful prose stylist and a man acutely conscious of his and the court's place in history. There are so many other ways of expressing a minimalist impulse than this unconventional use of the word "embarrass" that I have to wonder whether he didn't have in mind the prospect of institutional embarrassment, and not only in the case at hand.
On the third and final day of the health care arguments, the justices took up the question of "severability" - what parts of the Affordable Care Act should fall or remain if the individual mandate is carved out. Under the court's precedents, this is an inquiry into Congressional intent. The question of what Congress would once have wanted or might do now turned various justices into armchair political scientists, a role to which they were no better suited than their role earlier in the week as amateur economists. The effect was somewhat surreal. Late in the argument, interrupting a lawyer's statement that "Congress would have wanted ...," Justice Kennedy asked: "The real Congress or a hypothetical Congress?"
Although the courtroom audience chuckled, I'm not sure that Justice Kennedy meant his smart question to be funny. And anyone watching or listening to the argument had to wonder: is this the real Supreme Court or a hypothetical Supreme Court? The hypothetical court is the court depicted in so many recent confirmation hearings, where the justices dispassionately go about applying the law to the facts. The real court is - well, by three months from now, we'll see.

        
Sex and the Secularists
        
Newt's Shop of Horrors
        
What We Think About When We Think About the Court
        
News Flash: Progress Happens
        
Safety Nets for Freelancers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); LAWYERS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (72%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (71%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (64%) Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.; health care; Justice Clarence Thomas; the Supreme Court; Kennedy, Anthony M; Roberts, John G Jr; Thomas, Clarence; Fourth Amendment (US Constitution); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Search and Seizure; Supreme Court; Linda Greenhouse

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (90%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (90%); CLARENCE THOMAS (88%); ANTONIN SCALIA (79%); SAMUEL ALITO (58%) Kennedy, Anthony M; Roberts, John G Jr; Thomas, Clarence

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



148 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Santorum Links Obama and Romney on Gun Policies

BYLINE: KATHARINE Q. SEELYE


HIGHLIGHT: On Wednesday, during his first day of campaigning in Pennsylvania, Rick Santorum said Mitt Romney shared many of President Obama's views on guns. 

 BODY:
HOLLIDAYSBURG, Pa. -- Rick Santorum has become adept during the campaign at linking Mitt Romney, who leads the Republican presidential nominating contest, and President Obama on numerous issues, including health care and energy policy. On Wednesday, during his first day of campaigning in Pennsylvania, Mr. Santorum linked them on their views toward guns.
He started by reminding an afternoon crowd here outside the Blair County courthouse, in central Pennsylvania, of Mr. Obama's comments in 2008 that seemed to insult people with small-town values.
"Barack Obama four years ago referred to this area of Pennsylvania -- right here -- as a place that holds on, clings to their guns and their Bibles," he said.
"You're damn right we do," he added, to applause.
(Mr. Obama had not referred specifically to Hollidaysburg, but rather to "small towns in Pennsylvania," which, "like a lot of small towns in the Midwest," had been declining economically for decades. He had said it was "not surprising" that their residents "get bitter, they cling to guns or religion.")
In any case, Mr. Santorum then pivoted to gun restrictions, an issue of utmost importance to many in Pennsylvania. The state has one of the largest memberships in the National Rifle Association, which is highly influential in elections in the state.
"You're right, we cling," Mr. Santorum said. "We cling to our faith, we cling to the rights that are God-given and are guaranteed under our Constitution, including the right to protect ourselves and those we love with the Second Amendment, the individual right to bear arms."
He said Mr. Romney shared many of Mr. Obama's views on guns. "He supported the Brady Bill, supported the gun ban, increased taxes on gun licenses by 400 percent when he was in the state of Massachusetts," he said.
Mr. Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, did support the Brady Bill, which required a five-day waiting period on gun sales, and supported the 1994 crime bill, which banned various assault weapons. He raised fees on gun licenses to close a budget deficit. The Boston Globe reported that when Mr. Romney began to run for president in 2007, he touted his efforts to ease restrictions on gun owners.
The example of gun laws underscored the central point of Mr. Santorum's continued campaign, in the face of many naysayers in the party establishment, that the party should not nominate a moderate who cannot contrast himself sharply with Mr. Obama. He said Mr. Obama's failed policies should be the focus of the campaign, "not our nominee's complicity in those failed policies."
A spokeswoman for Mr. Romney declined to comment, which suggested in itself that the Romney campaign had moved on from squabbling with Mr. Santorum in the primary and was now focused on Mr. Obama.

        
Where Are the Republican Elder Statesmen?
        
Wisconsin Primary Overshadowed by Recall
        
Will Santorum's Flashes of Anger Help or Hurt Him?
        
Santorum Waves Away Economics
        
Romney Is the Winner in Puerto Rico

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); GUN CONTROL (91%); FIREARMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (89%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); RELIGION (71%); GOVERNORS (65%); BUDGETS (62%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) mitt romney; primaries; Republican Party; rick santorum; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Gun Control; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; National Rifle Assn; Pennsylvania; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (82%) National Rifle Assn

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); RICK SANTORUM (94%); BARACK OBAMA (94%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



149 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA DECODER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Former Editor of Philadelphia Inquirer Is to Return to the Newspaper in the Same Role

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR and AMY CHOZICK

 BODY:
William K. Marimow, who served as the top editor at The Philadelphia Inquirer from 2006-10, will rejoin the paper in the same role, the company said on Wednesday. 
His appointment, effective May 1, comes two days after the Philadelphia Media Network, publisher of The Inquirer, The Daily News and Philly.com, was sold to a group of local investors.
The return of Mr. Marimow, a popular editor, two-time Pulitzer Prize winner and former investigative journalist, sends a strong signal of reassurance to an editorial staff that has been shaken by layoffs and repeated changes in ownership.
In recent weeks some reporters and editors have expressed concern that the new ownership group, a consortium of the Philadelphia area's most powerful business and political leaders, would try to influence coverage.
The newspapers frequently write about several members of Interstate General Media, the newly formed parent company. The group includes George E. Norcross III, a Democratic power broker in South New Jersey and the parking lot magnate Lewis Katz. Edward G. Rendell, the former Philadelphia mayor and Pennsylvania governor, assembled the ownership group six months ago, but is no longer a member.
In a statement Wednesday, Gregory J. Osberg, publisher and chief executive of the Philadelphia Media Network, said Mr. Marimow's return ''reinforces the company's commitment to aggressive investigative reporting.''
''The message today is that we are going to devote even more time and resources to reporting the high quality stories that our readers deserve and demand,'' Mr. Osberg said. ''And to be clear: when the facts warrant it, nobody will get a free pass.''
The current editor in chief, Stan Wischnowski, will remain at the newspaper in a senior editorial role, the company said.
On Monday, Interstate General Media paid $55 million, and a further investment of as much as $10 million in working capital, for the two papers and the Web site. The deal is the fifth time in six years that ownership has changed hands.
''These newspapers have an historic tradition of outstanding journalism in our city, and we want to preserve that tradition,'' Mr. Katz said on Monday.
Mr. Marimow, 64, is a part of that tradition. He first joined The Inquirer as a business reporter in 1972 and won Pulitzer Prizes in 1978 and 1985. He held several editorial positions, including editor in chief of The Baltimore Sun, before returning to The Inquirer as editor in chief in 2006.
In 2010, shortly after Mr. Osberg joined the company, he reassigned Mr. Marimow to a reporting position.
Mr. Marimow currently teaches journalism at Arizona State University.
''It will be a privilege to work alongside newsroom colleagues who have continued to produce great journalism despite the toughest economic conditions I've ever experienced,'' Mr. Marimow said in a statement.
His return came as a welcome surprise for many newsroom employees. ''People in the newsroom love and respect him,'' said Amy S. Rosenberg, a staff writer at The Inquirer. But, she said, ''we've been through a lot. We're just churning it out, whoever we work for.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); WRITERS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%); WORKING CAPITAL (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: ED RENDELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



150 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Census Data Offers Look At Effects Of Recession

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
The Census Bureau offered the first detailed picture of population shift in the United States since the end of the recession, releasing data that showed that population growth in outer suburbs -- the fastest growing areas in the last decade -- all but ground to a halt in 2010 and 2011, as the painful effects of the housing crisis lingered.
The country's outer suburbs, often referred to as the exurbs by demographers, were at the forefront of the country's population growth for most of the last decade. New houses mushroomed in those areas as young families bought homes on credit that was easy to get, following the tradition of moving to the suburbs to begin adult lives. 
But when the housing market collapsed, growth in those areas slowed drastically. The economic recovery has not revived population growth in those areas and, according to an analysis by William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution, has only served to flatten it further. Population in the country's outer suburbs grew at just 0.4 percent in the year ended last July, down from 1 percent in the previous year and a peak in 2006 of more than 2 percent.
''The exurbs were the cutting edge of growth in the United States in the boom period,'' Mr. Frey said. ''That growth has really come to a standstill, and is maybe being given up for dead at this point.''
It was the Census Bureau's first major release since the recession was officially pronounced over, and demographers had been waiting for the data to begin to answer the question of what has happened to population. But there was scant evidence of any post-recession growth, Mr. Frey said, indicating that the aftereffects of the recession were still freezing Americans in place across large areas of the country.
The data suggested that a couple of forces were at work as a result of the downturn. People were stuck in place, unable to sell or buy homes because of the collapsed credit market and reluctant to move because of the uncertainty in the economy. And birth rates fell, as they often do in difficult economic times.
Of the 100 fastest growing outer suburban counties, all but two grew more slowly than in the period from 2006 to 2007.
The slowdown was sharp. The population of Cape Coral-Fort Myers, Fla., for example, soared by 21 percent from 2003 to 2007, making it the fastest growing big metropolitan area in the country for that period. But it fell to rank No. 45 in the period from 2007 to 2011, with a gain of just 4.4 percent, Mr. Frey said.
Eight of the top 10 fastest growing metro areas last year were in Texas and North Carolina. Austin and Raleigh were at the top of the list with growth rates of 3.2 percent and 2.3 percent. But even those grew more slowly than they had in the previous decade.
Gains in rural areas also slowed. Kenneth Johnson, a demographer at the Carsey Institute at the University of New Hampshire, calculated that the growth rate for rural counties from 2010 to 2011 was just one-quarter of the rate between 2000 and 2010. Growth slowed the most in rural areas that were close to the outer edges of cities because those places received spillover from urban areas.
Rural populations are usually older and do not reproduce as fast as younger, more urban populations, so rural areas tend to have depressed rates of growth.
Growth is slowing even in the rural recreational and retirement counties, which were the only rural places to experience fast growth in the last decade. Their growth rates are about half their previous growth rates, Mr. Johnson said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (92%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (92%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); POPULATION DECLINE (90%); SUBURBS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); CITY LIFE (60%); COUNTIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (51%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



151 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Council Reluctantly Agrees to State's Oversight of Detroit's Fiscal Decisions

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Hours before Gov. Rick Snyder of Michigan was to start the process of assigning an emergency manager to take control of financially ailing Detroit, a divided City Council agreed on Wednesday night to a deal that gives an advisory board, partly appointed by the state, oversight of its financial decisions, budgets and union contracts.
The Council's decision, which set off shouts like ''idiots!'' and ''sell-outs!'' from the audience, allows the city to avoid a fate many viewed as even worse: state appointment of an outside manager and the ceding of many decision-making powers of the mayor and City Council. The deal, some Council members said, was an option they picked reluctantly, a last resort. 
''My goal all along was to make sure we get back to fiscal stability,'' the Council's president, Charles Pugh, who voted with the 5-to-4 majority that favored the agreement, said afterward. ''This isn't going to be a quick fix.''
Under a Michigan law that addresses fiscal crises among cities, Mr. Snyder must announce on Thursday whether Detroit's imminent cash flow shortage and its long-term debts of $12 billion are so dire as to require the state to intervene. The so-called consent agreement, which was unanimously approved by a state review team several hours before the City Council members voted on it and had already been signed off on by the mayor's office, ensures that Mr. Snyder will not pick the stronger option of an outside manager, an option he had long said he hoped he would not have to choose.
Late Wednesday, Mr. Snyder praised the City Council's decision, following days of lengthy, heated debate and legal issues that had briefly clouded the agreement's future. ''It's a clear message that we will move forward -- and win -- as one Michigan,'' Mr. Snyder said. ''We all want Detroit to succeed.''
Around the nation, some of the most troubled cities and counties -- some of whose troubles have been made worse by the recession -- have undergone similar state monitoring, and six of Michigan's financially desperate cities and school systems are currently under the watch of an emergency, state-appointed manager.
But Detroit -- as Michigan's most populous city, the heart of the American auto industry and a place that was home to nearly two million people in 1950 -- is different, symbolically and historically. Since late last year, when state officials began examining the city's miserable financial health and it became clear that Detroit, which now has 713,000 residents, might run out of money as early as the spring, nothing about the debate has been simple.
Detroit residents who have opposed a consent agreement have described it as a needless surrender of the city's rights, and no better than allowing an emergency manager to take over. Some described it as simply a backdoor effort by the Republican-dominated state government in Lansing to attack unions. Others have seen a racial element in the notion that the state authorities insisted on overseeing the governing of a city where 82 percent of the residents are African-Americans.
''Stand up and fight,'' said JoAnn Watson, a Council member who voted no. ''Don't give up the legacy of this city.''
Detroit's problems have grown over many years, in part from what a state review team concluded were unrealistic budget estimates and a habit of borrowing money whenever the city ran out. The agreement creates a nine-member financial advisory board to guide the city's budget decisions, and a chief financial officer and ''program management director'' to sort out the city's longstanding budget misery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); MAYORS (89%); BUDGETS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

PERSON: RICK SNYDER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



152 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: A Fallen Worker Had Proudly Joined the Family Trade

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER; Nate Schweber contributed reporting.

 BODY:
He came from a long line of construction workers, so it was no surprise that Michael J. Simermeyer was drawn into the family trade.
A burly 30-year-old with a reddish brown beard, a talent for working with his hands and a dry, easy sense of humor, Mr. Simermeyer had been unemployed for some months last fall when he joined a construction contracting company, J & E Industries, run by his father's uncle, Michael Strehle.
He started at the site where soaring towers are replacing the ruined World Trade Center, but then switched to another high-profile dig -- the extension of the No. 7 subway line into the Far West Side of Manhattan. His 51-year-old father, also named Michael, worked at the site, too, on a daytime shift. A second cousin was the job foreman. 
The younger Michael was there on Tuesday in the fading light of a crisp spring evening installing a steel reinforcing bar used to strengthen concrete when a 170-foot crane toppled, mortally striking him and breaking another worker's leg. His older sister, Lauren Simermeyer, got a phone call from her overwrought father at Bellevue Hospital Center telling her, in her recollection, that there had been ''a freak accident -- a crane collapsed -- and Mikey happened to be the guy down there, the only guy who was killed.''
''It was obviously very sudden and shocking and devastating for us,'' Ms. Simermeyer said.
Michael Simermeyer, whose nickname was Vader because of his resemblance to the beefy professional wrestler, spent the years after graduating from Burlington High School in New Jersey working as a cellphone tower installer for Lucent Technologies and its successor, Alcatel-Lucent, specializing in the intricate wiring the towers require. He was laid off last year, Ms. Simermeyer said.
But installing cellphone equipment did not quite have the mystique and camaraderie of physical outdoor construction work, and he was delighted last year when he joined Local 731 of the United Steel Workers of America and landed jobs that sometimes had him toiling 60 hours a week, his friends said. For one thing, he had loans to pay off for classes he took at electrical trade schools.
''He wanted to settle into his jobs, make enough money to someday buy a house and just enjoy life,'' said a close friend, Nick Mandarakas, who described Michael as very capable when it came to technical work like wiring.
Indeed, Ms. Simermeyer, a 31-year-old veterinarian and breeder of corgis in Pedricktown, N.J., said that though she and their younger sister, Amanda, went to college, Michael preferred to work with his hands. More than once, his family saw him in the backyard taking apart old TVs and VCRs, then putting them back together.
''He was smarter than me,'' Lauren Simermeyer said. ''He always liked working with things. If you asked him what his favorite class was in high school, he'd probably say gym. He'd much rather be doing things.''
Mr. Simermeyer was born in Staten Island, where his father -- the son, nephew and grandson of construction workers with ancestral roots in Germany and Austria --grew up. By the time the younger Michael was in high school, he was 6 feet 2.
''He was a big guy but a complete teddy bear,'' Lauren Simermeyer said. ''If you needed a hug, he was the guy.''
Often dressed in a hooded sweatshirt and jeans, Mr. Simermeyer, who never married, enjoyed being with friends in the bars of Burlington, near Philadelphia, where his parents raised him and where he lived until recently in their bulky, white Victorian. After his parents moved to Pawling, N.Y., several years ago and his younger sister left for California a few months ago, he found an apartment with roommates in Lawrenceville, near Princeton.
He liked to watch DVDs and play video games like Madden NFL, but he was also a generous jack-of-all-trades; friends and neighbors remembered times he fixed an air-conditioner or a leaky pipe, or shoveled a driveway. ''He was a good Samaritan, a hard worker, reliable, a handyman,'' said Tim Kugler, 29, who had known Mr. Simermeyer since high school.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tim Kugler of Burlington, N.J., who had known Michael J. Simermeyer since high school, spoke of him on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (63%)

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (66%)

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (66%); ALU (NYSE) (66%); ALU (BIT) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



153 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Iran Balks At Holding Nuclear Talks In Turkey

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE; Reporting was contributed by Steven Lee Myers from Washington, Steven Erlanger from Paris, Alan Cowell from London, and Artin Afkhami from Boston.

 BODY:
Iran's foreign minister raised new doubts on Wednesday about the resumption of international talks over its disputed nuclear program, saying the location may not be Turkey -- as previously agreed -- and suggested Iraq and China as possible alternate hosts.
The statement by the foreign minister, Ali Akbar Salehi, was made a little more than a week before the talks among Iran and the so-called P5-plus-1 countries -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States, which are the five permanent members of the Security Council, plus Germany -- are to take place. A change of location on such short notice, especially for such a charged diplomatic negotiation, seemed to represent another complication. 
Other Iranian officials quoted by the country's state-run news media had expressed irritation in recent days about the choice of Turkey, apparently angry with the Turks' stance on two other big issues: the antigovernment uprising in Syria and the proposed NATO missile shield. Turkey, a NATO member, is participating in the shield project, which is designed to thwart Iranian missiles.
One of the Iranian officials, Mohsen Rezaii, the secretary of the Expediency Council, an advisory group to Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, had suggested Syria as an option, which was bound to be rejected by at least the Western members of the P5-plus-1 group, who have called Syria's president, Bashar al-Assad, unfit to rule.
Mr. Salehi, who publicly endorsed the choice of Turkey just a few weeks ago, is the most senior Iranian leader to suggest other locations.
''Baghdad and China have been discussed as venues for holding negotiations, and this issue has to be agreed by the sides,'' Mr. Salehi was quoted as saying by Iranian news agencies after a cabinet meeting in Tehran on Wednesday.
Western diplomatic officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the Iran nuclear issue is so diplomatically fragile, said they assumed the location was still likely to be Istanbul. But one senior Western diplomat called the idea of Baghdad ''ridiculous'' and said the dispute about the location raised questions about whether Iran was serious about the talks.
Some outside Iranian experts also said the foreign minister's comments did not augur well.
''The fact that the interested parties can't even agree on a venue is an inauspicious sign about their ability to reach a nuclear agreement,'' said Karim Sadjadpour, an associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington.
There was no immediate comment from Turkey or the P5-plus-1 representative, Catherine Ashton, the European Union's foreign policy chief.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, who on Sunday announced that the talks would be held April 13 and 14 in Istanbul, made it clear that the timing was now in doubt, saying that she awaited a final decision by Ms. Ashton on the details. She reiterated that the United States had little patience for stalling tactics or ''talks for the sake of talks.''
''There is still time and space to conclude the objectives that we seek through diplomacy,'' she said at the State Department. ''We want to see a peaceful resolution of the international community's concerns, but the time for diplomacy is not infinite.''
Western diplomatic officials expressed deep doubts about holding the talks in Iraq, if only because of the security that would be required, as seen in the recent Arab League conference held in Baghdad.
Nonetheless, Iranian news agencies quoted Hoshyar Zebari, Iraq's foreign minister, as saying that he would ask the P5-plus-1 countries about the idea.
Iran's uranium enrichment is the core issue in the talks, which were suspended in January 2011. Iran says its enrichment is purely peaceful, to fuel reactors for energy and the production of medical isotopes. The West suspects it is a cover for a nuclear weapons program.
Under the pressure of onerous economic sanctions from the United States and the European Union over the nuclear issue, Iran recently agreed to resume the talks. They have taken on increased urgency because Israel has threatened to attack suspected nuclear sites if it concludes that Iran is imminently capable of building a nuclear weapon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (72%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (68%); ALI KHAMENEI (59%); BARONESS ASHTON OF UPHOLLAND (58%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (88%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); TURKEY (95%); CHINA (94%); SYRIA (93%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



154 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1553 words

HEADLINE: Wary of Singapore as a Partner, Professors Give Yale Its Own Dose of Dissent

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
NEW HAVEN -- Yale announced a year ago that it was creating the ''first new college to bear the Yale name in 300 years'' at the National University of Singapore, and last week, after reviewing 2,500 applications, it sent out the first handful of faculty job offers for Yale-N.U.S. College.
So it is distinctly awkward timing that members of the Yale College faculty, which never voted on the plan, are now raising concerns about joining their storied institution with an autocratic city-state where drug offenses can bring the death penalty, homosexual relations are illegal and criminal defamation charges are aggressively pursued.
On campus, there is a whiff of a Yale Spring, a slow awakening -- at a university with no faculty senate -- to faculty discontent. Many Yale professors are unhappy about the absence of a vote on the Singapore project, while some go further and attack it as a dangerous collaboration with a government that does not support the broad freedoms they believe are central to liberal arts education. 
''The faculty is feeling disempowered, that it has no voice in what is going on,'' said Seyla Benhabib, a political science professor.
Richard C. Levin, the university's president, said the faculty had no vote on the project because it would not affect the college. It was approved by the Yale Corporation, the governing board. Yale officials take pains to explain that Yale-N.U.S., which will be paid for entirely by Singapore, will not be Yale but a distinct institution with its own president and its own diploma.
Of course, some faculty support the project, and some are deeply involved in it: Charles Bailyn, an astronomy professor, will be the dean of Yale-N.U.S. when the first 150 students arrive next year, and other professors helped develop the plan and are working on hiring.
At last month's faculty meeting, about 150 professors, an unusually high turnout, debated Professor Benhabib's resolution calling for a formal commitment to broad freedoms. A vote was postponed until the next meeting, this Thursday evening, when an even larger turnout is expected, along with an attempt to amend the resolution to include a statement of support for the project.
With the globalization of higher education, such delicate cross-cultural partnerships are increasingly common. In fact, the National University of Singapore already has, among other collaborations, a medical school venture with Duke, a partnership with Johns Hopkins' conservatory and a New York University Law School master's program.
New York University has a liberal arts campus in Abu Dhabi and is starting another in Shanghai, each offering the same degree granted in New York. Yale has been unwilling to grant its own degree abroad, either in Singapore or at an arts institute in Abu Dhabi under discussion five years ago.
The Yale administration says the faculty has had ample opportunities to weigh in since the September 2010 prospectus outlining the Singapore project, including two poorly attended town-hall-style meetings.
But many professors said they had paid little attention early on, assuming the project would come to a vote.
''I was stunned by the announcement that we'd hooked up with this university,'' said Mimi Yiengpruksawan, an art history professor. ''My first question was, 'Who's ''we'' -- and why are ''we'' involved in developing a campus paid for by a national government that is not the United States?' ''
Even apart from Singapore, there had been mounting faculty discontent about university decisions on the budget, the graduate school and shared services. The complaints coalesced this winter at a gathering at the home of an English professor, where 20 senior faculty members discussed their frustrations.
Now the Singapore debate is heated, with a stream of commentary from students, faculty and alumni -- including, this week, a glowing vote of confidence in a sophisticated model of education blending East and West by Fareed Zakaria, a Yale trustee, and a blistering attack calling Yale's plan ''poorly informed, reckless and sultanistic'' by Michael Montesano, an alumnus in Singapore.
The resolution creating all the buzz is rather mild, expressing ''concern regarding the recent history of lack of respect for civil and political rights in the state of Singapore,'' and urging Yale-N.U.S. ''to respect, protect and further principles of nondiscrimination for all, including sexual minorities and migrant workers; to uphold civil liberty and political freedom on campus and in the broader society,'' ideals ''at the heart of liberal arts education.''
Professor Bailyn, who radiates enthusiasm about the chance to design a new college, is uncomfortable with the resolution, worrying about the implied ''us versus them'' attitude of faculty members ''at a safe distance of 9,000 miles, telling Singaporeans how to live.''
Furthermore, he said, the timing could hardly be more awkward: ''It could have been a huge conversation a year ago, before we actually signed the agreement. Now we're right in the middle of making faculty offers.''
Timing aside, faculty supporters say, the resolution is important both symbolically, to support civil liberties, and practically, to bolster the faculty voice.
''Thursday will be the first vote ever taken on anything related to Singapore,'' said Christopher L. Miller, a professor of French who is gay. ''It would be a very positive step, saying that the Yale College faculty is taking back some ownership of the issue, but it's only the first step.''
Plenty of questions remain, faculty members said, about what the agreement between Singapore and Yale contains, how it would work and what made Yale choose Singapore.
Some Yale trustees have long ties to Singapore. In recent years, three have held important positions at the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation, which handles Singapore's more than $100 billion in assets, or at Temasek Holdings, which the Finance Ministry owns. As those ties have become known, some on the faculty have expressed frustration that Yale has not been forthcoming about them.
In an interview Sunday, Mr. Levin said there was no impropriety. ''Two of the three individuals with connections to Singapore were not serving as Yale trustees at the time the agreement was under discussion, and the third recused himself from voting,'' he said.
Specifically, he said, Charles Ellis, the husband of the Yale vice president Linda Lorimer, retired from the Yale Corporation in 2008, before the discussions began, and retired as an adviser to the Singapore corporation in June 2009, when the talks were under way. Charles W. Goodyear, who was Temasek's chief executive-designate from March until August 2009, did not become a Yale trustee until after the Yale-Singapore agreement was signed. And G. Leonard Baker, a Yale trustee and leading fund-raiser since 2000, who served on the board of a subsidiary of the Singapore corporation from 2001 to 2011 and held other Singapore advisory positions, reported them on his annual disclosure forms. Mr. Levin said Mr. Baker had recused himself from voting on the agreement.
Mr. Levin said it had not occurred to him to disclose Mr. Baker's recusal. In a statement Sunday night, Mr. Levin said a review of Yale's online information had revealed that Mr. Goodyear's and Mr. Baker's Singapore involvements were not in their biographical summaries, an omission that has been corrected.
Mr. Levin first considered the project, which he called one of the most exciting of his long presidency, at the 2009 World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. There, he had tea with the president of N.U.S., who had previously sought a liberal arts collaboration with Britain's University of Warwick and California's Claremont Colleges.
If the collaboration hits some bumps, Mr. Levin said, they may be smoothed by a governance committee, with equal representation from both universities, that will advise the Yale-N.U.S. president on conflicts of values or principles.
The prospectus includes negotiated language promising that faculty and students at the new college ''will be free to conduct scholarship and research and publish the results, and to teach in the classroom and express themselves on campus, bearing in mind the need to act in accordance with accepted scholarly and professional standards and the regulations of the college.'' It also says the new college's nondiscrimination policy will be ''fully consistent'' with Yale's.
Still, Michael J. Fischer, a computer science professor, has urged Yale to pull back. ''I ask that the Yale name be removed from the new college, that the Yale administration make clear to all that Yale's role in Yale-N.U.S. is only as consultants and that the Yale collegium has no control, responsibility or affiliation with Yale N.U.S.,'' he wrote in The Yale Daily News.
In Singapore, an article in an independent student newspaper criticized Yale professors as trading in stereotypes -- and suggested that if Americans obsess about the illegality of homosexuality, Singaporeans might obsess about Guantanamo Bay and ''dubious 'antiterrorism' laws.''
The Yale Daily News offered a measured view: ''The truth remains that Yale will henceforth be closely linked with an authoritarian regime, and the university will have to find a way to balance partnership and pushback.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Charles Bailyn, below, a Yale professor, will be dean at Yale-N.U.S. College, a venture with the National University of Singapore. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 YALE-N.U.S. COLLEGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); POLITICS (73%); LAWYERS (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); EMPLOYMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (74%); ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (65%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%) SINGAPORE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



155 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Defections Continue at Dewey & LeBoeuf

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
Six more partners resigned on Wednesday from the beleaguered New York law firm Dewey & LeBoeuf.
James R. Woods, a co-chairman of the firm's global insurance industry practice, has left for Mayer Brown.
John M. Nonna, a litigator specializing in insurance disputes, leads a group of lawyers leaving Dewey for Patton Boggs, including the insurance group partners Larry P. Schiffer and Eridania Perez.
Peter A. Ivanick, a bankruptcy partner specializing in insurance, is moving to Hogan Lovells, while Lawrence M. Sung, a patent lawyer in Washington, is departing for Baker Hostetler. 
In addition to the departing partners, Suman Chakraborty, of counsel at Dewey, will become a Patton Boggs partner.
The moves by Mr. Woods and by Mr. Nonna's group add to the virtual decimation of Dewey's insurance practice, which has lost more than 20 partners. Insurance has long been regarded as one of the firm's premier practices.
Of Dewey's 300 partners, 46 have left the firm in 2012, after last year's disappointing financial performance led the firm to slash the compensation of many of its partners. Compounding its problems, Dewey also overextended itself by aggressively hiring star lawyers away from rival firms with lucrative multiyear guarantees.
Dewey revamped its management last week in an attempt to stabilize itself. It stripped Steven H. Davis of the title of chairman and replaced him with a five-person office of the chairman. The firm's leaders have also said that many of the departures were expected and that a substantial number of those who left were underperformers.
''We have said for weeks now that there would be additional departures, both at the firm's insistence and from professionals who didn't feel they fit in with the new structure of the firm,'' the firm said in a statement on Wednesday. ''These departures, like the ones before them, will not have a negative economic impact on the firm. When we put the new structure of the firm together, it was with the anticipation that while it still would be a major international firm in terms of scope, size and practice areas, it would be somewhat smaller in terms of the number of professionals.''
In spite of the departures, several of Dewey's practice areas continue to thrive.
Richard E. Climan, a mergers and acquisitions lawyer for Dewey in Silicon Valley, has advised Dell on several large recent acquisitions, including its purchase this week of Wyse Technology. And Dewey has served as bankruptcy counsel to the Los Angeles Dodgers and advised the team on its sale agreement, announced last week, to a group that includes the former basketball star Magic Johnson.
Mr. Nonna said in an interview that Patton Boggs presented him and his colleagues with a great opportunity. He said he still held his soon-to-be-former firm in high regard.
''I think there are some really some outstanding lawyers at Dewey with some strong practices, and I think they are committed to the firm and surmounting these challenges,'' Mr. Nonna said.
On Tuesday, The American Lawyer, a magazine, said it planned to revise Dewey's last two years of financial results, which it publishes in its Am Law 100 rankings. The American Lawyer said the changes were the result of discrepancies between the numbers that Dewey reported to the magazine earlier this year and the figures published in recent news reports.
For instance, the magazine said that Dewey's management had told the magazine that the firm collected $935 million in revenue in 2011, but that the actual figure was about $782 million.
Dewey issued a statement to The American Lawyer saying that it saw no need for the magazine to restate its numbers, which it defended as accurate. The firm said it had used a different methodology than the one used by the magazine.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL INSURANCE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); LITIGATION (73%); PATENTS (70%); BASKETBALL (62%); BASEBALL (60%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%)

COMPANY: DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (92%); PATTON BOGGS LLP (92%); MAYER BROWN LLP (91%); BAKER & HOSTETLER LLP (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



156 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Work Is Halted at Subway Site After Fatal Crane Collapse

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND; Reporting was contributed by Joseph Berger, Joseph Goldstein, Christine Haughney, Randy Leonard, Colin Moynihan and William K. Rashbaum.

 BODY:
A day after a fatal crane collapse, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority shut down all work at the construction site for the No. 7 subway extension to Manhattan's Far West Side, leaving a 60-foot-deep pit that looked like an underground ghost city for various investigators to mine for evidence of the accident's cause.
Prosecutors from the office of the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., took investigative authority over the crane; inspections were ordered for all cranes at M.T.A. work sites; and city officials began examining Yonkers Contracting, the company that owned the 24-year-old crane that collapsed.
On Wednesday, officials at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, prompted by the accident, ordered the inspection of cranes operated by Yonkers and other contractors at the World Trade Center site, a person with knowledge of the actions said. 
As investigators on Wednesday roamed the normally bustling construction site for the No. 7 extension, the cranes and other machines there were silent. Work by three other contractors operating jointly beside Yonkers on the site -- Skanska, Schiavone Construction Company and J. F. Shea Construction -- was also halted.
About a dozen officials in hard hats stood over the bent and twisted boom that had killed a worker at the site, Michael Simermeyer, 30, of Lawrenceville, N.J. The accident took place at 7:20 p.m. Tuesday, at West 34th Street between 10th and 11th Avenues, creating a roar that ''sounded like thunder,'' said Robert Ramirez, a truck driver who was nearby.
Mr. Simermeyer had gone to work for one of the site's contractors after being unemployed for several months last fall. He hailed from a long line of construction workers.
The crane was operating beneath street level, a few stories below ground, alongside a hole that descends even further, according to Frank Dwyer, a spokesman for the Fire Department. Mr. Simermeyer and another worker were working on one side of the deeper hole. That worker suffered a broken leg. The crane operator and the flagman, who were both taken to the hospital, were on the other side of the hole.
One worker, who did not provide his name, said that the men were in the pit ''laying rebar,'' the steel reinforcing rods used to strengthen concrete, while another worker operated the crane. At the time of the accident, the man said, the crane was not picking up or putting down a load. The man, who said he was working some distance from the crane, said he looked at it a moment before the accident and watched the long arm suddenly swing down.
''The boom just came crashing down,'' he said. ''It was something nobody could have expected.''
The depth of the site made the rescue slow and difficult. The crane operator and the flagman were taken to Bellevue Hospital Center for treatment for shock, but they did not have physical injuries.
The crane had passed a full inspection by the Buildings Department in July; a more recent inspection in January had not been completed, and was rescheduled for April 5, two days after the crane came crashing down.
Inspectors from the department were examining maintenance records for the crane and reviewing video of the site for clues about the accident.
In addition, prosecutors in Mr. Vance's office, along with the city's Department of Investigation and the transportation authority's inspector general, were at the site and at Yonkers Contracting's offices in Westchester County on Wednesday securing records, several people who were briefed on the inquiry said.
Yonkers Contracting has had a long and sometimes contested history of work on public projects in the city, including a fatal 2000 accident in which a painter fell to his death from the Manhattan Bridge. The federal Occupational Safety and Health Agency fined the company $1,500 for two serious safety citations in the accident. The company successfully appealed a third.
Most recently, the transportation authority awarded the company an $85.5 million contract in November, for work on its East Side Access project, which will take Long Island Rail Road trains to Grand Central Terminal. Company representatives did not respond to requests for comment on Wednesday.
Several previous investigations of the company resulted in acquittals or dropped charges, and a vice president was convicted on federal fraud charges in 2010. The Department of Investigation required that the company hire a monitor to oversee its operations from 2003 to 2008 for reasons that included failing to report a bribe solicitation, according to a law enforcement official.
J & E Industries, the company that employed Mr. Simermeyer, worked as a subcontractor to Yonkers.
It was the first deadly crane accident in the city since 2008, when two separate crashes killed nine people and created waves of fear in the city, according to the Office of Emergency Management. Some officials said on Tuesday that there were five victims in the West Side accident.
The accident comes in the middle of two of the largest public transportation construction projects in recent years, the extension of the No. 7 line, a key piece of the redevelopment of west Midtown, and the long-awaited construction the Second Avenue subway.
The total cost of the No. 7 line project is $2.42 billion, which includes $266 million in nonsubway work financed by the city. Yonkers's contract, awarded in October 2010, is for $116.4 million.
Instead of the rumble and clatter of heavy equipment, noise on the block on Wednesday came from the whoosh of buses and trucks on 11th Avenue, the faint whistles of a traffic officer on 10th Avenue and the creak of a corrugated metal gate on a yellow brick car garage.
By stopping all work on the extension project, the transportation authority halted one of the city's largest economic engines, which now employs roughly 800 workers. Richard T. Anderson, president of New York's Building Congress, said the M.T.A. was the leading provider of construction jobs in the city. It generates about 20 percent of the $26 billion spent annually on construction.
Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, criticized the lack of city authority over the construction project. After the two accidents in 2008, the city tightened safety and inspection standards for all construction in the five boroughs. But those regulations do not apply to the M.T.A., a state authority.
Ms. Quinn cited two conditions at the site that inspectors believe were in violation of city safety requirements, though neither was related to the crane.
Councilwoman Jessica Lappin, who appeared with Ms. Quinn at a news conference, said in an interview that the authority was not required to let city officials review its cranes except when they were first installed.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg withheld criticism, saying that the authority ''runs projects pretty well'' and ''does have a good record.'' He added that the city had pushed to require an exam for all crane operators, but had met with union opposition.
On Wednesday, Ian Titus, an iron worker who went to the site, said the threat of serious injury, or worse, was a part of the job. ''Nobody plans to come out here to die,'' he said, ''but that's the risk you take when you come to a construction site.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The scene was quiet on Wednesday at the site where a crane collapsed a day earlier, killing one, at West 34th Street between 10th and 11th Avenues.(A17)
The crane was located below street level. The crane operator and a flagman, who were on this level, were uninjured.
 The two victims were on the opposite side of the site from the crane. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A20) GRAPHIC: Crane Collapse: A crane's boom collapsed just before 7:30 p.m. Tuesday at 34th Street, between 10th and 11th Avenues. One person died and another was seriously injured. (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); BONE FRACTURES (77%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); CITIES (73%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (70%); SCHIAVONE CONSTRUCTION CO LLC (68%); YONKERS CONTRACTING CO INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (70%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (70%); SIC1622 BRIDGE, TUNNEL, & ELEVATED HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION (68%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (68%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (68%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



157 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Electronic Dance Concerts Turn Up Volume, Tempting Investors

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
One Friday afternoon last month, 60,000 tickets at $100 and up went on sale for a major music festival at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., before the headliners had even been announced.
It sold out in three hours.
The festival with the fervent following was the Electric Daisy Carnival, a two-day event next month dedicated to the concert industry's new favorite genre: electronic dance music. Long considered a marginal part of the music business that subsisted in clubs and semi-legal warehouse raves, dance has now moved squarely into the mainstream, with a growing circuit of festivals and profit margins that are attracting Wall Street.
For an industry increasingly reliant on aging headliners -- like Bruce Springsteen, Madonna and the Rolling Stones -- the appeal of a genre with fresh stars and a huge young audience is undeniable.
''If you're 15 to 25 years old now, this is your rock 'n' roll,'' said Michael Rapino, the chief executive of Live Nation Entertainment, the world's largest concert promoter. 
Two weeks ago, 165,000 fans went to the Ultra Music Festival in Miami to revel in the pulsating bass and wave glow sticks in the dark. Similar numbers have turned out for events in Los Angeles, Las Vegas and Dallas. With the boom, artist fees have exploded. Top D.J.'s like Deadmau5, Tiesto and Afrojack can earn well over $1 million for a festival appearance and $10 million for a Las Vegas nightclub residency, talent agents say.
Having developed on the margins, electronic dance music -- high-energy waves of mechanized sound that, at its best, creates a communal experience for a sea of strangers -- is dominated by a network of independent promoters.
They include Insomniac, which presents Electric Daisy Carnival; Hard Events, another nationwide promoter; Ultra, whose namesake festival in Miami has expanded to Brazil, Argentina and Poland; and Made Event, behind the Electric Zoo festival in New York.
Their success has attracted a clutch of potential investors from inside and outside the music world. The insiders include Live Nation and A.E.G. Live, the two biggest corporate promoters.
The outsiders include Ron Burkle, the supermarket magnate who made an unsuccessful bid last year for the Warner Music Group, and the media mogul Robert F. X. Sillerman, according to people involved in investment talks who declined to be identified discussing private agreements.
Mr. Sillerman -- who transformed the concert industry in the 1990s by consolidating regional rock promoters into what is now Live Nation -- declined to comment for this article, as did a representative of Mr. Burkle.
For new investors, getting into the dance business may not all be a party. Determining the value of the promoting companies is difficult, and there are particular risks whenever putting on a musical bacchanal for tens of thousands.
At the Electric Daisy Carnival in Los Angeles two years ago, a 15-year-old girl died of a drug overdose; at the same event in Dallas the next year, a 19-year-old man died and more than two dozen were hospitalized for drugs, alcohol and heat-related illnesses.
Pasquale Rotella, the chief executive of Insomniac, the company behind those raves, has also been implicated in a corruption scandal in Los Angeles. Last month, he and five others were indicted on charges related to the embezzlement of $2.5 million from the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. In a statement, his company maintained that the charges against him were ''completely baseless and flat-out wrong, both on the law and on the facts.''
The investment talks may be only in the exploratory phase. But for a musical genre that not long ago was mostly associated with secret locations and drugs, it is a startling development, as are the amounts of money involved. According to the people involved in the talks, offers to buy the biggest promoters have ranged from about $20 million to $60 million.
''It feels like the dot-com era,'' said Joel Zimmerman, an agent at William Morris Endeavor who books many of the top dance acts. ''There's a little bit of a gold rush going on, with outsiders looking in.''
Electronic dance music, or E.D.M. for short, has been common in one form or other for decades, but only in recent years has its audience become big enough to sustain large-scale touring. Last December, Swedish House Mafia became the first D.J. act to headline Madison Square Garden. (D.J.'s do not spin records so much as command computerized sound systems, playing snippets of songs and using them to create their own protracted rhythms.)
This summer acts like Avicii and Kaskade are touring in some of the same arenas and theaters where fans can see Coldplay and James Taylor.
While record sales for dance music are relatively low -- even the biggest recent albums, like David Guetta's ''Nothing But the Beat,'' rarely sell more than 300,000 copies -- the sound has infiltrated pop radio through acts like Lady Gaga, Rihanna and Katy Perry. At the Grammy Awards in February, Skrillex won three prizes and Mr. Guetta and Deadmau5 (pronounced like ''deadmouse'') jammed with the Foo Fighters, L'il Wayne and Chris Brown.
The big dance festivals have built themselves into valuable brands, able to sell tickets on their name alone and the immersive audio-visual spectacle they present. One big company could bring together a handful of promoters and find economies of scale.
''I have been approached by all the big boys you can imagine,'' said Gary Richards, the founder of Hard Events. ''I've been working in this for 20 years and nobody cared. Now it's so massive that everybody wants a piece of it.''
Yet a marriage between D.J.'s and billionaire investors may be difficult. Live music is a risky and low-margin business for promoters. Pricing tickets too high or too low, for example, can sink an otherwise successful venture. Dance music also faces the perennial fad question: will its popularity stick this time or blow over as it did in the 1990s, when it was called electronica?
How much the promoters need, or even want, outside money is also unclear. Some say outside capital is necessary to expand to new markets, but others have built powerful organizations on their own. Adam Russakoff, Ultra's director of business affairs, said his company was profitable, debt-free and has no outside investment. The company handles its own ticketing and makes licensing deals for its events overseas.
And then there is simple culture clash. Many dance music promoters and managers are suspicious of big money and the corporate ways of the mainstream concert business. In an interview, Mr. Rotella said he has been approached by many potential investors but was worried of what might become of immersive, multifaceted events like Electric Daisy.
''You don't want this to turn into what the concert business is today,'' he said, ''where you just sell people tickets and they come to the show and sit in their seat. There's not a lot of soul behind that. What we do is more of an experience.''
Mr. Richards agreed, saying that the big investors he spoke with did not understand the market.
''You can't just franchise this like McDonald's,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The D.J. Deadmau5, in his signature mouse head, performing at the Roseland Ballroom in Midtown Manhattan. (A1)
The D.J. Afrojack at the Roseland Ballroom. Top electronic dance D.J.'s can earn millions. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The Electric Zoo Festival last September on Randall's Island in New York. Such events have drawn investors' attention. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE GLASSBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (92%); MUSIC (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); RECORD REVENUES (89%); MUSIC GENRES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EVENT MARKETING (78%); DANCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: WARNER MUSIC GROUP CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512230 MUSIC PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (51%)

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (58%); MICHAEL RAPINO (51%); RON BURKLE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



158 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Shares Dip As Fed Aims To Pull Back

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER

 BODY:
Investors are looking toward the day when the Federal Reserve eases its bond purchases intended to support the economy, and so far they do not like what they see.
Following big declines in Europe and Asia, the stock market in the United States turned in one of its worst performances of the year on Wednesday, just days after it completed the best first quarter in over a decade. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index finished Wednesday down 1.02 percent, or 14.42 points, to 1,398.96.
Investors were digesting minutes released a day earlier from the March meeting of central bank policy makers, minutes that dashed expectations of a new round of monetary stimulus when the existing one ends in June. Investors have come to rely on the Fed's efforts to keep interest rates low and encourage investment. 
The current program, known as Operation Twist, is the third round of stimulus since the financial crisis of 2008. In the weeks after the first two rounds ended, in 2010 and 2011, stock markets entered prolonged drops that lasted roughly until the Fed announced new efforts to support the economy by buying bonds.
Now the central bank's policy makers are suggesting the economy may be strong enough on its own, but investors are not so sure.
''The market has seen this movie a couple times before and knows how it ends,'' said Jeffrey Kleintop, the chief market strategist for LPL Financial. ''If history holds, and I think it probably will, we'll likely see a retreat in the stock market as Operation Twist ends.''
While the major stock indexes recovered slightly from their lows on Wednesday morning, the Nasdaq composite index still had its worst day of the year, falling 1.46 percent, or 45.48 points, to 3,068.09. The Dow Jones industrial index declined 0.95 percent, or 124.80 points, to 13,074.75.
Even as they weighed the Federal Reserve's potential withdrawal, investors grappled with continuing problems abroad.
In particular, concerns have grown that Spain's continuing budget cuts could deepen the country's recession and make it harder for the government to repay its lenders. Those fears resurfaced on Wednesday morning, when Spain struggled to sell a new series of bonds at an auction, with the yield on its 10-year bond rising to 5.66 percent, from 5.45 percent a day earlier.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of blue-chip companies had its second worst day this year, falling 2.46 percent.
In the United States, a growing number of companies have indicated that their coming announcements of second-quarter financial results could disappoint. More than half the companies that have provided guidance so far have said that earnings will be lower than analysts expect, according to S.& P. Capital IQ. A drop in corporate profits could remove what has been one of the strongest engines of the economic recovery over the last two years.
In addition, many traders have been expecting at least a short-term pullback in stock prices for investors to catch their breath after six months of steady gains have taken the benchmark S.& P. 500 index up 27 percent. The climb started in October, just a few weeks after Operation Twist began.
The moves in various asset classes on Wednesday signaled that the impending end of the Federal Reserve's monetary stimulus program is the heaviest factor weighing on investors.
The dollar, which has been pushed down by the flood of new money from the Fed, began gaining in value against the euro from the moment the Fed released its minutes Tuesday afternoon. It climbed 0.7 percent more on Wednesday.
Meanwhile, commodities whose values have been rising with the Federal Reserve stimulus, including oil and gold, have fallen since the Fed's release on Tuesday. Silver experienced a particularly big drop, skidding 5.8 percent on Wednesday.
The value of Treasury bonds dropped sharply Tuesday afternoon but recovered slightly on Wednesday, with the benchmark 10-year note climbing 19/32, to 98 1/32, and the yield dipping to 2.22 percent, from 2.29 percent on Tuesday.
The Fed has focused its efforts of late on large bond purchases intended to keep rates low and to encourage investors to look elsewhere for better returns, including stocks.
For several months, a stream of economic indicators has signaled that the recovery was taking hold.
The payroll firm ADP said Wednesday that private sector companies added 209,000 jobs in March. The government's snapshot of the labor market for March will be released on Friday, when stock markets are closed.
Despite the economic improvement, the stubbornly high level of unemployment in this country, above 8 percent, had led many investors to assume that the Fed would announce new support for the economy after Operation Twist ended, in June.
''It's too early to be confident that the recovery will weather any withdrawal of stimulus,'' said Dominic Konstam, the head of interest rate research at Deutsche Bank.
The Fed's comments from March do not rule out another program. But a number of members of the Federal Reserve Open Market Committee had been open to new stimulus at the previous meeting, while the March meeting notes indicated that only ''a couple of members'' thought ''additional stimulus could become necessary.''
Morgan Stanley economists said in a research note that the likelihood of a new round of bond buying fell to 33 percent on Tuesday, from 66 percent.
More bullish market experts suggest the economy is strong enough to continue improving even without central bank support.
Guy LeBas, the chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott, said he thought the damage from the end of Operation Twist would not extend beyond this week.
''The slowdown in the Fed's stimulus is already priced into the market,'' he said.
But a significant camp of economists expects continuing fear if investors have to adjust to a world without bond buying by the Fed. On both sides of that debate, there is widespread conviction that if the markets and economy take a turn for the worse, Fed policy makers will look to step in again.
''If they see stocks continue to languish, the Fed will have to rethink it's commitment,'' Mr. Konstam said. ''Just because they didn't discuss new stimulus much doesn't mean they aren't going to do it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday. The current round of stimulus from the Federal Reserve is set to end in June. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B7) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BONDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EURO CRISIS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); INTEREST RATES (53%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

COMPANY: LPL FINANCIAL CORP (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (91%); ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



159 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Service Jobs Increased In March, Data Shows

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Service companies continued to expand at a healthy pace last month and stepped up hiring, providing more evidence that the American economy was growing and adding jobs. 
The Institute for Supply Management said Wednesday that its index of nonmanufacturing activity dropped to 56 in March, from its 12-month high of 57.3 in February. Any reading above 50 indicates expansion.
Economists said the slight decline was not troubling because the reading was still at a healthy level that points to growth. And a measure of employment rose to near a six-year high reached in January.
I.S.M., a trade group of purchasing managers, surveys roughly 90 percent of American companies in all sectors outside of manufacturing. That includes retail, construction, financial services, health care and hotels.
Separately, the payroll processor ADP said the economy added 209,000 private sector jobs in March. The job gains in January and February were also revised up. The ADP survey does not include government jobs.
The two reports were encouraging ahead of Friday's government report on March job growth. Many economists expect that will show the fourth consecutive month of strong hiring.
The I.S.M. survey ''still suggests that domestic demand is contributing more to the recovery,'' Paul Dales, an economist at Capital Economics, said in a note to clients. ''This survey is still consistent with some decent rates of economic growth.''
The I.S.M. report contained cautionary signs, too. A measure of new orders fell but still showed growth. A gauge of sales and other business activity also declined.
Still, rising consumer and business spending is bolstering hotels, restaurants, retailers, entertainment and recreation firms, construction companies and financial services providers, I.S.M. said. Sixteen of the 18 industries tracked by the survey reported growth.
Greater spending ''reflects the increased confidence level of businesses and consumers,'' said Anthony Nieves, chairman of the I.S.M.'s services committee.
The economy has added an average of 245,000 jobs a month from December through February. That has pushed down the unemployment rate to 8.3 percent, the lowest in three years.
Economists are predicting that employers added about 210,000 jobs in March.
More jobs have helped service companies grow. As hiring picks up, Americans are more willing to spend. Consumer spending jumped by 0.8 percent in February, the most in seven months, the government reported last week.
Department stores, electronics chains and other merchants are seeing more business. Retail sales increased in February by the most in four months. Department store sales rose in February by the most since November 2010.
Big job gains at service businesses are necessary to reduce the unemployment rate. The service sector includes low-paying positions in retail and restaurants. But it also has higher-paying jobs in professions such as information technology, accounting and financial services.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETAIL SALES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); NEW ORDERS (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (74%); FACTORY ORDERS (74%); DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (69%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); BOOKKEEPING & PAYROLL SERVICES (68%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



160 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Americans Cutting Back on Drugs and Doctor Visits

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS

 BODY:
Patients cut back on prescription drugs and doctor visits last year, a sign that many Americans are still struggling to pay for health care, according to a study released Wednesday by a health industry research group.
The report, issued by the IMS Institute for Healthcare Informatics, said 2011 was also a breakthrough year for the drug industry, which introduced 34 new medicines, the most in a decade, to treat diseases including cancer, multiple sclerosis, hepatitis C and others.
The number of prescriptions issued to patients declined by 1.1 percent compared with 2010, and visits to the doctor fell by 4.7 percent, the report said. Visits to the emergency room, by contrast, increased by 7.4 percent in 2011, an increase that the report's authors said was linked to the loss of health insurance resulting from long-term unemployment. 
Michael Kleinrock, director of research development at the institute, which consults for the drug industry, said his research showed that some people with health insurance at the start of the recession actually increased their visits to the doctor out of fear they were about to lose insurance.
But as the economy has failed to strongly recover, ''we're now seeing more people reset their expectations about how often they will use medicine,'' he said.
The study found that older Americans, in particular, used fewer medicines: prescriptions for patients 65 and older declined by 3.1 percent last year. The biggest declines were in prescriptions to treat high blood pressure and osteoporosis, according to the report. Mr. Kleinrock said older Americans appeared to be rationing their care as they struggled to pay rising bills on fixed incomes.
''We're reaching a tipping point where patients will actually take that increased cost and use less medicine,'' he said.
Older Americans used fewer prescription drugs even as their out-of-pocket costs fell, the study found. The total out-of-pocket spending on medicines dropped to $9.7 billion, from $11.5 billion in 2010, for those enrolled in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program, available to people 65 and older.
The average co-payment for Medicare Part D recipients fell by $2.66, to $23.31. The report attributed the lower costs to Medicare Part D drug subsidies that began taking effect in 2010 as part of the new health care law.
Leigh Purvis, a senior strategic policy adviser who studies drug prices for the AARP, noted that the drugs that older patients seemed to be cutting back on, including those to treat high blood pressure and cholesterol, ''are drugs where you don't necessarily develop symptoms when you stop taking them.'' As a result, she said, some patients may view such drugs as expendable.
She also noted that while the overall cost had decreased as more Americans took generic drugs, the prices for brand-name drugs had jumped in recent years, driving up costs for people with medical conditions that require them to take drugs without a generic equivalent.
Even as fewer Americans were using prescription drugs, the opposite was true for young adults aged 19 to 25. Prescriptions for those patients rose by 2 percent compared with 2010, a change that Mr. Kleinrock said was because the health care law allowed adult children under 26 to be covered by their parents' health care plan.
The federal government has estimated that 2.5 million people have taken advantage of that benefit, which took effect in September 2010. The IMS study found that the biggest increases among young adults were for antidepressants and drugs to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
The report also found that several important new medicines were introduced in 2011, including those that improve care for people with hepatitis C, multiple sclerosis and several types of cancer. All told, the report found, the new treatments could help an estimated 2.5 million people who are newly diagnosed with medical conditions each year, and about 20 million people who currently live with the diseases.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A community health center in Aurora, Colo. Prescriptions fell 1.1 percent last year, and nearly three times that for older people. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MEDICARE (88%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (79%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (79%); DRUG PRICES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); HYPERTENSION (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); HEPATITIS (74%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (74%); CANCER (74%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (74%); HEPATITIS C (74%); OSTEOPOROSIS (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (72%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR HEALTHCARE COMMUNICATION INC (58%); INSTITUTE FOR HEALTHCARE QUALITY INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8249 VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS, NEC (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



161 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Payoff for Efficient Cars Takes Years

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Ed Moran's new Toyota Prius was programmed by the dealer to make him feel good about his gas savings. A dashboard display compares the fuel consumption of the Prius and his 2001 Ford pickup truck.
''Every time I go to the store it will tell me how much money I saved,'' said Mr. Moran, a horticulturist in Ames, Iowa.
Like more and more Americans, Mr. Moran is looking to a fuel-efficient car to help soften the financial blow of ever higher gas prices.
Shoppers have more options than ever to fight back, including hybrids, plug-ins, electric vehicles and ''eco'' or ''super fuel economy'' packages. 
But opting for models that promise better mileage through new technologies does not necessarily save money, according to data compiled for The New York Times by TrueCar.com, an automotive research Web site.
Except for two hybrids, the Prius and Lincoln MKZ, and the diesel-powered Volkswagen Jetta TDI, the added cost of the fuel-efficient technologies is so high that it would take the average driver many years -- in some cases more than a decade -- to save money over comparable new models with conventional internal-combustion engines.
That is true at today's pump prices, around $4, and also if gas were to climb to $5 a gallon, the data shows.
Gas would have to approach $8 a gallon before many of the cars could be expected to pay off in the six years an average person owns a car.
Analysts say the added cost of the new technologies is limiting the ability of fuel-efficient cars to gain broader appeal. Hybrid sales have surged more than 60 percent this year, but they still account for less than 3 percent of the total market. Plug-in cars represent a minuscule fraction of sales, with General Motors even halting production of the Chevrolet Volt in response to less demand than it expected.
''The point where a car can actually go after a mass-market audience is when the pricing starts making sense on paper,'' said Jesse Toprak, vice president for market intelligence at TrueCar. ''If they want these technologies to be mainstream, pricing still needs to come down.''
The Prius and Lincoln MKZ are likely to produce overall savings within two years versus similar-size gas-powered cars from the same brand, but other hybrids, despite ratings 8 to 12 miles per gallon better than conventional models, will cost more to buy and drive for at least five years.
The data assumes an average of 15,000 miles driven a year and a gas price of just under $4 a gallon.
If gas cost $5 a gallon, the TrueCar data estimates that the payback period for a hybrid Ford Fusion over the conventional Fusion would be six and a half years, compared with eight and a half years at $4. At $6 a gallon, the hybrid Toyota Camry, Hyundai Sonata and Kia Optima are likely to generate savings within four years.
So why do some buyers pay more for advanced technology that might not save them money? Many never do the math, analysts say, or they tend to overestimate how much the added miles per gallon translate into actual monetary savings. Some view the higher mileage as better for resale value, hoping to come out better on the back end.
''The price of the vehicle, you only pay it once and then soon forget about it,'' Mr. Toprak said.
Others clearly view saving fuel and doing something better for the environment as their ultimate goals, regardless of cost. The Prius, for example, became a success in part because drivers wanted to drive -- and be seen driving -- a hybrid.
''Fuel economy has become a social attribute,'' said Tom Turrentine, an anthropologist at the University of California, Davis, who has studied car buying habits and is the director of the university's Plug-In Hybrid and Electric Vehicle Research Center. ''People want to have good fuel economy because if they have poor fuel economy they might look stupid.''
The low price tag and high mileage rating of the new Prius C hatchback persuaded Mr. Moran, the horticulturist, to buy one in March.
He paid a little over $22,000 for the car, which is smaller and less expensive than the regular Prius, with an identical 50 miles-per-gallon rating. That is about the same price as a Toyota Camry sedan, which gets about 30 miles per gallon.
Mr. Moran, 34, knew his fuel savings would be overshadowed by his new monthly loan payment, but driving a hybrid just felt right. ''I thought, 'I try to save plants every day, so why am I not doing my part?' '' he said.
Early in March, Toyota said that it had sold more Prius C cars in its first three days on the market than Chevrolet sold plug-in Volts and Nissan sold battery-powered Leafs in all of February. The statistic highlights that even within the fuel-efficient car market, hybrids have a big leg up on electric cars, which are far more expensive.
According to TrueCar, a buyer who chose the Leaf instead of a Nissan Versa would need to drive it for almost nine years at today's gas prices or six years at $5 a gallon before the fuel savings outweighed the nearly $10,000 difference in price.
The Volt, which cost nearly $40,000 before a $7,500 federal tax credit, could take up to 27 years to pay off versus a Chevrolet Cruze, assuming it was regularly driven farther than its battery-only range allows. The payback time could drop to about eight years if gas cost $5 a gallon and the driver remained exclusively on battery power.
The Lundberg Survey, which tracks fuel prices, said in March that gas prices would need to reach $12.50 a gallon for the Volt to make sense purely on financial terms. It said the Leaf would be competitive with gas at $8.53 a gallon.
Still, in a recent survey by Consumer Reports, the most satisfied drivers owned Volts. The survey said 93 percent of Volt owners would definitely buy the car again -- though there are only 12,000 of the cars on the road.
''If you provide consumers what they want, they won't mind paying a premium to get it,'' Mr. Toprak said.
Marcus Schuh, the general manager of Terry Lee Honda, a dealership near Indianapolis, said shoppers were not necessarily looking to save money when they shopped for a fuel-efficient car.
Many just want a vehicle that consumes less gas, and some are willing to pay a modest premium for a hybrid if they want to reduce their fuel use even more, he said.
''There's probably a percentage that is aware of the cost and benefit,'' Mr. Schuh said. ''It's about helping the environment and it's a good feeling to do it.''
Right now, the biggest reason people are not buying many hybrids, he said, is that they are in short supply, because of production cuts caused by last year's tsunami in Japan, where Honda makes all of its hybrids. So if someone comes in asking for a hybrid, Mr. Schuh can make the argument that their overall costs might be less by going with a conventional car.
The TrueCar data shows that upgrade packages like the ''eco'' trim level on Chevrolet's car lineup generally take even longer to pay off than hybrids. Such upgrades cost less than a hybrid powertrain, but the increase in gas mileage is much smaller.
Even so, Matt Melliere, 25, decided in January that the Chevrolet Cruze Eco was the right car for him. At 42 miles per gallon in highway driving, it is twice as efficient as the Subaru WRX he had previously.
''The miles per gallon was definitely the driving factor,'' said Mr. Melliere, who lives in St. Charles, Mo., and commutes 20 miles each way to his marketing job with an online retailer.
''Every day when gas goes up,'' he said, ''I feel better and better about my purchase.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ed Moran, a horticulturist in Ames, Iowa, bought a Toyota Prius C hybrid. A dashboard display shows his fuel savings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MALLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Toyota vehicles, including some Prius C's at center left, awaited shipment in Sendai, Japan. The Prius C is smaller and less expensive than the regular Prius hybrid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMOHIRO OHSUMI/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Used S.U.V.'s at Terry Lee Honda in Avon, Ind., whose manager said that production cuts in Japan limited hybrid supplies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER W. STEVENSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHARTS: The Cost of Higher Fuel Economy:: Electric cars, hybrids and high-mileage versions of some vehicles are more efficient but also more expensive than similar offerings from the same brand. Even given high gas prices, it may take years to earn back the additional cost. (Source: TrueCar) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (72%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (72%)

COMPANY: TRUECAR INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (90%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (59%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



162 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: Christie Leaning On Tax Subsidies In Hunt for Jobs

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Panasonic received $102.4 million in tax credits to move its headquarters nine miles within New Jersey. Goya Foods picked up $81.9 million in credits to build offices and a warehouse in Jersey City, two miles from its current complex. Prudential Insurance obtained $250.8 million to move a few blocks to a new tower in Newark.
Since taking office in 2010, Gov. Chris Christie has approved a record $1.57 billion in state tax breaks for dozens of New Jersey's largest companies after they pledged to add jobs. Mr. Christie has emphasized that these are prudent measures intended to help heal the state's economy, which lost more than 260,000 jobs in the recession. The companies often received the tax breaks after they threatened to move to New York or elsewhere.
The generous distribution of subsidies in New Jersey has come under fire from government-reform groups, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City and some New Jersey landlords, who contend that the programs are an expensive and ineffective form of assistance to wealthy corporations. 
The critics pointed out that even when the promised jobs have not materialized, the Christie administration has merely reduced, not withdrawn, the subsidies. And they say that the administration is mortgaging the state's future by forgiving so much tax revenue for the next 10 to 15 years.
''Christie has taken this to a whole different level; it's become a feeding trough,'' said Deborah Howlett, executive director of New Jersey Policy Perspectives, a liberal policy organization. ''It seems ridiculous to steal jobs from one city in the state and move them to another city a couple miles away. There just doesn't seem to be any benefit to taxpayers.''
Mr. Christie, who has portrayed himself as a fiscal conservative, has in particular used a new program, the Urban Transit Hub Tax Credit Program, for the subsidies. The program, which is intended to encourage development around nine cities, offers tax credits equal to 100 percent of some capital investments.
''This is another success story about one of our largest businesses choosing to stay in New Jersey, continue to grow and invest in our state and people,'' Mr. Christie said at Panasonic's groundbreaking in October. ''This project directly benefits New Jerseyans by keeping over 800 jobs here, creating up to 200 new, permanent positions, and spurring private investment.''
Under the program, the Christie administration has granted more than $900 million in state tax credits over 10 years to 15 companies, including Panasonic, Goya, Prudential and Campbell's Soup. The companies have promised to add 2,364 jobs, or $387,537 in tax credits per job, over the next decade.
The most controversial of those deals is also the largest.
The state approved up to $250 million in tax credits last year for Prudential, Newark's most important corporate citizen, to build a new office tower. The company acknowledged that the jobs were not ''at risk'' of leaving the state and that renewing its leases at three buildings in the nearby Gateway complex were the ''low-cost options by a wide margin when compared to the cost of new construction.''
The $250.8 million in tax credits, however, made the office tower project possible. In return, Prudential claimed it would create 400 new jobs, including 100 coming from outside New Jersey. The other new jobs were based on the company's past growth patterns, which presumably would occur at either location.
The three landlords at Gateway filed a lawsuit in December to block the tax credits, arguing that the loss of Prudential, which leased a combined 922,000 square feet, would have a ''devastating financial impact'' on both Gateway and Newark, as the office vacancy rate shot up.
They contended that Prudential would have renewed its lease if not for the state's intervention in the form of tax credits. The state's decision, the landlords said, amounted to ''corporate welfare at its worst.''
Another agreement has also stirred criticism. In February 2011, the state approved a $42 million tax break for Campbell's Soup to renovate its longtime headquarters in Camden and add new jobs.
Campbell's then announced in June that it would eliminate 130 jobs in Camden. The administration responded by reducing the subsidy to $34.2 million and warning Campbell's that it could not use the tax credits until it restored the work force to the level before the job cuts and added five jobs a year for a decade.
Of course, no elected official wants to be blamed for the loss of jobs after major employers leave the state. Like his predecessors, Mr. Christie has deployed longstanding tax-credit programs, providing more than $500 million in tax breaks for a variety of companies.
For example, the state provided $261.4 million in tax incentives for the Revel casino in Atlantic City, where the gambling industry's revenues have fallen sharply. And it plans to give a total of $650 million in public financing for a twice-failed entertainment and retail complex in the Meadowlands.
But the state's adoption of the Urban Transit Hub Tax Credit Program has expanded companies' chances of obtaining subsidies. The Transit Hub program is a bipartisan initiative that has been revised three times since 2008 to make it easier for companies to qualify. Caren S. Franzini, chief executive of the New Jersey Economic Development Authority, said the tax incentives offered by Mr. Christie had been highly successful.
''It's very much worth it,'' Ms. Franzini said. ''We're sharing with the companies a percentage of new revenues. But we're always getting more than we give out. There will be jobs, but there will also be more tax ratables for those communities and more spinoffs.''
Panasonic, which had threatened to move out of the state, will get up to $102.4 million in Transit Hub tax credits to move from an aging headquarters in Secaucus to a new building in Newark.
The company is to occupy about 60 percent of a new tower built by private developers.
Panasonic of North America's chairman, Joseph M. Taylor, said that ''absent the tax incentives, Jersey wouldn't have been an option.''
But Mr. Taylor conceded that he had to take into account that ''probably 80 percent'' of the company's 900 employees wouldn't have made the trip to California, Georgia or other competing locations considered by the company.
Hartz-Mountain, Panasonic's landlord in Secaucus, sued the state over the deal last year. It dropped the suit after New Jersey created another tax credit program for suburban developers.
Despite Mr. Christie's efforts, New Jersey has recovered only 20 percent, or 51,500, of the 261,000 jobs lost during the recession, compared with 80 percent in New York City.
The state says 12,168 jobs were retained through the Urban Transit Hub Tax Credit Program, although opponents of the program doubt those estimates.
Mayor Bloomberg has chastised Mr. Christie for reigniting a bidding war for jobs.
Seeking to lure New York companies to New Jersey, the Christie administration offered an estimated $300 million in subsidies to GAD Bakeries, makers of Junior's cheese cakes; Fresh Direct, the online grocer; and the Hunts Point Terminal Produce Cooperative.
For 20 years, companies have routinely pitted the two states against each other in an effort to extract tax breaks and other subsidies.
Stephen Katzman, co-president of the Hunts Point cooperative, said Mr. Christie had called him last year offering ''pretty much whatever it would take to get us there.''
So far, those companies have not taken the bait, but the competition did force New York to match New Jersey's offers.
Gil Medina, a former New Jersey commerce secretary, said New York, New Jersey and Connecticut should work together.
''We need to collaborate more on a regional basis instead of spending a significant amount of time outmaneuvering each other,'' said Mr. Medina, who is now a real estate broker for Cushman & Wakefield. ''We should think of a way to put together a regional approach to being more competitive globally.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Chris Christie has extended tax breaks to companies like Prudential Insurance, now in the Gateway complex in Newark, which will receive $250.8 million to move a few blocks away. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MEL EVANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); JOB CREATION (78%); APPROVALS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RECESSION (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC CORP (59%)

TICKER: PC (NYSE) (59%); 6752 (TSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (59%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (59%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (56%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



163 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: New Balance Celebrates Its Homemade Footprint

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
NEW BALANCE is introducing a 30th anniversary model of its 990 running shoe with an advertising campaign that emphasizes its production in the United States.
The 30th anniversary 990 is the 10th version of this shoe; some earlier models have had style numbers other than 990, like the 993, the model preceding the newest shoe. The 30th anniversary 990, available now at shopnewbalance.com and early this month in stores and elsewhere online, is lighter than the 993, fits more snugly than the 993, and contains an updated sole and reflective logo.
The 990 has a cult following: according to New Balance officials, it was favored by Steve Jobs, and has also been worn by the actors Ben Affleck, Jennifer Garner and Hilary Duff, among others.
Officials of New Balance -- which had global sales of $2 billion in 2011 -- declined to quantify sales of the 993 last year, though they called it one of their ''most popular shoes.'' 
Boston-based New Balance is a relatively small player in the booming American running shoe market. According to Matt Powell, analyst for SportsOneSource, a research company that tracks the sporting goods industry, running shoe retail sales in the United States rose 14 percent to $6.5 billion last year, representing 30 percent of all athletic footwear retail sales. Total athletic footwear sales rose only 1 percent last year, he said.
Mr. Powell said Nike generated $3.6 billion, or 55 percent, of American running shoe retail sales in 2011, while New Balance had $400 million in sales, or 6.4 percent of the total.
Created in-house, New Balance's new advertising campaign focuses on the company's manufacture of men's and women's styles of the new 990 in its factories in Skowhegan and Norridgewock in Maine, and in Lawrence, Mass.
To that end, a 25-second TV spot and similar 60-second video feature workers in the Norridgewock and Skowhegan factories; a worker in the commercial discusses ''the people that have been here 20 or so years,'' and says, ''That's what they have done their whole life, is put good shoes in a box, is to craft these shoes.''
New Balance retailers will begin running the TV spot, underwritten by New Balance and the retailers, on April 17; the spot and 60-second video will begin running on New Balance's Web site and Facebook page the same day, and other videos will follow.
There is also print advertising, including an ad underwritten by retailers and New Balance that will begin running locally April 15, and a similar trade ad by New Balance. Both ads show the hands of a factory employee in Lawrence sewing a 990 on a machine. Copy on both ads says ''Craftsmanship redefined''; both also feature a logo, created for the campaign, that is a stylized American flag in which the words ''Made here'' replace the stars.
Web banners will begin running April 15 on sites of Federated Media Publishing, Largetail.com and Stumbleupon.com. In addition, New Balance has created new point-of-sale material for retailers to convey the ''Craftsmanship redefined'' message, including an old-fashioned View-Master that lets shoppers view the evolution of 990 models over 30 years.
A supplier of shoes to the United States military, New Balance also is running a half-page ad in USA Today in early April to publicize a promotion it is doing with the USO. Through April 30, when the buyer of any New Balance shoe donates $10, the company will send a pair manufactured in the United States to an active-duty service member.
Patrick Tomasiewicz, a New Balance marketing associate for running shoes and apparel, said the online initiatives were aimed at men ages 18 to 34, who he said represented the model's ''widest user base.'' He also said the model's joint advertising by New Balance and retailers was designed for men ages 20 to 60.
Depicting New Balance employees making the 990 ''is the best way to convey our craftsmanship and the story behind the shoe,'' he said, adding that the campaign also conveys ''the heritage of a model that's 30 years old.''
New Balance's running shoe production is an anomaly. According to the American Apparel and Footwear Association, 99.3 percent of all athletic footwear sold in the United States in 2010 was produced overseas.
New Balance officials said the budget for the new campaign would be ''just under seven figures'' from April through July. According to Kantar Media, the company's total advertising expenditures last year were $16.4 million, down from a five-year high of $28.8 million in 2008.
The new campaign was generally praised by industry experts. Marshal Cohen, chief retail analyst of the NPD Group, a market research company whose clients include New Balance, suggested the new campaign would let the manufacturer introduce the 990 to ''younger runners and younger walkers.''
Rick Burton, a professor of sports management at Syracuse University, predicted the campaign would ''do great for New Balance,'' with its messages about the 990's heritage and domestic production. The fact that it is running during a summer Olympics year will also be a plus, he said, since ''track and field will be more visible; people are going to be inspired.''
Americus Reed II, an associate professor of marketing at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, compared New Balance's advertising to Chrysler's new campaign with Clint Eastwood, introduced during February's Super Bowl. In this presidential election year, ''a lot of people in the country are looking for hope, for a reason to believe that the country, the economy can come back. The 'Made in the U.S.A.' message is very appropriate given the current political and economic climate,'' he said.
Tom Meyvis, an associate professor of marketing at the New York University Stern School of Business, warned, however, that although running-shoe buyers might say they care where merchandise was made, ''in a concrete shopping situation, a lot of ideals don't matter that much anymore. Features such as price and design have a bigger impact.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 9, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, the Advertising column on Thursday, about New Balance's issuance of a 30th anniversary model of its 990 running shoe, gave an outdated name for a nonprofit organization that is joining with the company in a promotion, and rendered part of its former name incorrectly. It is now the USO; it was formerly the United Service Organizations, not the United Service Organization.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Web banner ad, part of the campaign that begins this month highlighting the 30th anniversary of New Balance's 990 shoe. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (92%); FOOTWEAR (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); FILM (74%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (63%)

COMPANY: NEW BALANCE ATHLETIC SHOE INC (92%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5137 WOMEN'S, CHILDREN'S, & INFANTS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES (92%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: HILARY DUFF (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012



164 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Budget Author, a Romney Ally, Turns Into a Campaign Focus

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Ashley Parker contributed reporting from Philadelphia.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With Mitt Romney on a steady march to the Republican presidential nomination after a sweep of three primaries, both he and President Obama are seizing on the Republican House budget, and its ambitious young architect, Representative Paul D. Ryan, as a defining issue of the unfolding campaign.
After Mr. Ryan, chairman of the House Budget Committee, helped Mr. Romney secure a crucial primary victory in Mr. Ryan's home state, Wisconsin, the candidate on Wednesday tightened his embrace of the congressman despite a withering assault a day earlier from President Obama on the Ryan spending plan and what he said it reflected about Republican priorities.
In his most direct clash yet with the president, Mr. Romney defended Mr. Ryan before newspaper editors gathered in Washington as a politician who ''unlike this president, has had the courage to offer serious solutions to the problems we face.'' Other Republicans cast the 42-year-old Mr. Ryan as the intellectual light of the party and the heir to Jack Kemp, the late New York congressman who also specialized in fiscal policy and was Senator Bob Dole's running mate in 1996. 
The president sought to reinforce the narrative of two men joined at the hip. Mr. Obama noted in a speech on Tuesday to the same convention of journalists that Mr. Romney had endorsed Mr. Ryan's budget-cutting fiscal plan as ''marvelous,'' and then went on to assail it as a ''radical vision'' that would deepen the inequality in American society.
For Mr. Obama, painting the conservative lawmaker as a sort of wild-eyed wingman to Mr. Romney carries clear benefits, according to his advisers: it yokes Mr. Romney to the unpopular elements of the Ryan budget -- from deep cuts in cherished social programs to a Medicare overhaul that could drive up costs for future retirees and fundamentally change the popular health plan -- and it makes it tougher for Mr. Romney to tack to the center once he gets past the primaries.
''He's very much lashed to Ryan and the House Republicans,'' said David Axelrod, a top strategist for Mr. Obama. ''They share an economic view and a view on the budget. By essentially embracing the framework of Ryan, Romney is also embracing the steps that would be necessary to implement it.''
Mr. Romney has certainly cultivated an alliance with Mr. Ryan, who escorted him around Wisconsin during five days of campaigning. Talk of a Romney-Ryan ticket swelled in recent days as Mr. Ryan, fresh from endorsing Mr. Romney, joined him at town-hall meetings, schooled him on the pleasures of a ButterBurger, and even introduced him at his victory speech in Milwaukee on Tuesday evening after Mr. Romney also won primaries in Maryland and the District of Columbia. Asked recently if he would run with Mr. Romney if asked, Mr. Ryan said he would have to consider it.
To further the perception of two men in sync, the Obama campaign has issued a side-by-side comparison of the budgets proposed by Mr. Ryan and Mr. Romney, complete with rosy testimonials. (''Look at what he put out!'' Mr. Ryan said last fall in response to the Romney plan. ''This tracks perfectly with the House budget.'') Obama advisers have taken to calling it the Romney-Ryan budget.
Both budgets, the Obama campaign asserts, would cut taxes sharply for the wealthy; gut public education, medical research, and other government programs; and increase the burden on the elderly to pay for their own health care.
While budget analysts say the two plans are similar, they are not identical. Mr. Ryan, for example, proposes overhauling the tax code, collapsing the six rates for personal income tax into two rates: 25 percent and 10 percent. Mr. Romney would retain the six rates, but cut each of them by 20 percent. Both plans would repeal the president's health care law. But Mr. Ryan would retain the administration's proposed cuts in Medicare, while Mr. Romney would scrap them as well.
''The idea that they are carbon copies is obviously not true,'' said Marc Goldwein, policy director at the bipartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. ''But conceptually, there is a lot of similarity.''
Advisers to Mr. Romney said they did not expect him to resist comparisons between his budget plan and Mr. Ryan's. After all, they said, not only does Mr. Romney largely support the plan, but any discussion between Mr. Romney and the White House over the budget will play to Mr. Romney's strength on the economy, they said.
''Obama is trying to set this up to demonize the House Budget chairman,'' said Kevin Madden, an adviser to the Romney campaign. ''Governor Romney is going to talk about his vision for the country and his ideas for entitlement reform and tackling spending and reducing deficits. He welcomes efforts by people like Paul Ryan to address it, because Obama hasn't.''
Strategists inside and outside the campaign predicted that Mr. Obama would try to focus on line items in the Ryan budget, to argue that it would hurt women, children and the elderly. Mr. Romney's challenge, they said, would be to keep the focus on the parts of the plan intended to spur economic growth.
''The president is going to try to define the Ryan plan purely in terms of what it does on spending,'' said David Winston, a Republican strategist who advises House candidates. ''As the campaign progresses, will this be a discussion about economic growth, or will he be allowed to cherry pick it?
In his speech to the newspaper editors, Mr. Obama focused on the cost of the Ryan plan, which he said would be ruinous. Calling it a ''Trojan horse'' and ''social Darwinism,'' the president said that by the middle of the century, it would all but eliminate spending on medical research, air-traffic control services and Head Start.
Such arguments, Democratic strategists said, will appeal to independent voters, whom Mr. Romney will have to attract in a general election. They said Mr. Romney's embrace of the Ryan plan would provide ample ammunition for those who want to make the case that he is a crusader for trickle-down economics, which they regard as discredited.
Mr. Romney, for his part, said the president had set up a ''series of straw men'' by claiming that under the Ryan budget, there would be proportional spending cuts in government programs. In fact, Mr. Romney said, some programs would be eliminated outright, while others would be preserved, though he offered no details.
Beyond that, he accused the president of lacking leadership in confronting the nation's fiscal problems. He described Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner as providing an unsatisfactory response when being grilled on Capitol Hill recently about how to deal with entitlement costs. The questioner: Paul Ryan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Paul D. Ryan (A1)
 Mitt Romney in Broomall, Pa., on Wednesday, in advance of the Pennsylvania primary. Mr. Romney has embraced the budget proposal of Representative Paul D. Ryan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); BUDGETS (91%); WRITERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); JOURNALISM (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); MEDICARE (67%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (62%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); PAUL RYAN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (77%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



165 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Obama vs. Romney on Fiscal Issues

 BODY:
Some recent back-and-forths between the Obama and Romney camps regarding the House Republican budget plan and other fiscal issues:
''If Mitt Romney is the nominee, then this really is going to be the Romney-Ryan plan ... So the American people have to understand, if Mitt Romney's elected president, he'll rubber-stamp that budget ... It showers huge additional tax cuts on the wealthy ... that are paid for by veterans and seniors and the middle class, so it's not a balanced approach.'' -- David Plouffe, senior White House adviser, of Paul D. Ryan's proposed budget plan, March 25
''I think it'd be marvelous if the Senate were to pick up Paul Ryan's budget and to adopt it and pass it along to the president.'' -- Mitt Romney, in a telephone town hall meeting last week with Wisconsin voters 
''Governor Romney's a little out of touch ... I can't remember a presidential candidate in the recent past who seems not to understand what ordinary middle-class people are thinking about and are concerned about.'' -- Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., on 'Face the Nation' on Sunday
''...Governor Romney has said that he hoped a similar version of this plan from last year would be introduced as a bill on Day 1 of his presidency. He said that he's 'very supportive' of this new budget, and he even called it 'marvelous' -- which is a word you don't often hear when it comes to describing a budget. It's a word you don't often hear generally.'' -- President Obama, at an Associated Press luncheon on Tuesday
''If President Obama is assigning blame for the country's debt and deficits, he should look no further than his own budget blueprints. After piling on trillions of dollars in new debt in his first three years in office, the last thing President Obama is qualified to lecture on is responsible federal spending.'' -- Andrea Saul, Romney campaign spokeswoman, in a statement after Mr. Obama's speech on Tuesday
''The president refuses to take responsibility for the economy and refuses to offer a credible plan to address the most predictable economic crisis in our history. Instead, he has chosen tired and cynical political attacks as he focuses on his own re-election.'' -- House Budget Committee chairman, Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, responding to Mr. Obama's speech
''You have a guy who wants to go back to the same policies that got us into this disaster. He wants to cut taxes for the very wealthy, cut Wall Street loose to write its own rules and he thinks that this somehow is going to produce broad prosperity for Americans.'' -- David Axelrod, Obama adviser, calling Mr. Romney ''oblivious'' to everyday Americans' lives on Tuesday
''Out-of-touch liberals like Obama say they want a strong economy, but in everything they do, they show they don't like business very much. But the economy, of course, is simply the product of all the businesses in the nation added together. So it's a bit like saying you'd like an omelette but you don't like eggs.'' -- Mr. Romney in a speech on Tuesday

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); PAUL RYAN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



166 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. Examines Fine Print in a Bill for Start-Ups

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG and BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
Wall Street is examining whether it will benefit from a little-known section of a broad new law that President Obama is expected to sign on Thursday.
Provisions tucked into the so-called JOBS Act, or the Jumpstart Our Business Startups, will roll back some major securities regulations and parts of a landmark legal settlement struck almost a decade ago. That 2003 settlement built a Chinese wall between Wall Street research analysts and investment bankers, an effort to prevent analysts from improperly promoting stocks to help their firms drum up business from corporate clients.
Under the new legislation, some of those restrictions would be eased when it comes to smaller companies, so-called emerging growth companies.
Wall Street senses an opportunity. Davis Polk, a large law firm that caters to Wall Street, wrote in a recent note to clients that the JOBS Act represented ''the most significant legislative loosening in memory of restrictions around the I.P.O. process and public company reporting obligations.'' 
Almost every big bank on Wall Street, including Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Bank of America, is poring over the provisions, which some firms say will open a new front on their business model. Several firms contacted Wednesday said they were studying the JOBS Act and were eager to see how regulators would begin to interpret the legislation. One Wall Street executive familiar with the JOBS Act but who declined to be named said the law would give firms ''more flexibility'' in covering emerging companies.
The new legislation passed through Congress over the objections of regulators, past and present, who warned of the potential risks to investors.
''It is a bad sequel to a bad movie,'' said Eliot Spitzer, the former New York attorney general. ''It shouldn't be called the JOBS Act, it should be called the Bring Fraud Back to Wall Street Act.''
Mr. Spitzer was a crucial architect of the 2003 settlement, struck after the dot-com bubble, when investors lost millions of dollars investing in companies that regulators later claimed were improperly hyped by analysts. In some cases, analysts would privately disparage the same stocks they were telling investors to buy, including in one e-mail where an analyst called a security a ''piece of junk.''
Regulators contended that analysts were influenced by their investment banking colleagues who were seeking to win lucrative business from these hot companies. The settlement, some aspects of which were echoed in the Sarbanes-Oxley law and in regulations, barred any communication between bankers and analysts unless accompanied by a compliance officer, a move aimed at reducing the influence of bankers on the research.
There is concern that the JOBS Act will unwind this provision for emerging growth companies, those that have less than $1 billion in annual revenue. Lawmakers argued that the current restrictions have stifled the ability of start-up companies to raise capital and amplify their profile.
The JOBS Act also will allow banks to publish research reports about these companies while the bankers are helping take them public. The potential conflict here, regulators say, is that bankers might use research to drum up interest in the stock, which is then often sold to retail investors.
This new provision would have covered a broad range of companies that went public during the tech boom - popular start-ups like Pets.com and Webvan - which later foundered. It would have also affected a number of start-ups that have recently gone public - or are considering a public offering. LinkedIn, the professional social networking site that went public in 2011, reported annual revenue last year of $522.2 million. Pandora Radio, another big name that recently went public, reported revenue for fiscal 2012 (year ended January 2012) of $274.3 million.
Underwriting the initial public offerings of companies like these is a big business on Wall Street. Firms like Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs stand to make millions of dollars in fees when Facebook goes public this year.
Despite the apparent opportunities available in the new legislation, Wall Street is proceeding with some caution. For instance, some big American banks have told regulators in recent weeks that they were not likely to start doing research on companies that were candidates to go public, a person briefed on the matter said. The banks, the person said, are mindful that investors will sue them if they can show that analysts drafted intentionally deceptive research.
Before taking any actions, the banks are first seeking guidance from a cavalry of lawyers.
''All of the investment banks will likely want to be looking at the policies and procedures they have in place relating to research and research-investing banking interactions and trying to reconcile those with the JOBS Act,'' said Glenn R. Pollner, a capital markets partner at Gibson Dunn who is advising clients on the JOBS Act. ''Among other things, there is some uncertainty here as to how expansively or narrowly the S.E.C. and Finra will interpret the provisions of the JOBS Act relating to research and investment banking interaction.''
For one, the global settlement, and its broader rules of the road for analysts, is still technically intact.
Lawyers are advising the banks to tread lightly until the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street's self-regulator, acts. Regulators on Wednesday said they were scanning the new law, and deciding the next steps to take.
Finra will likely relax some of it rules to comply with the JOBS act, but the regulator has not yet a timetable for finalizing any changes. The Securities and Exchange Commission is unlikely to have to change any of its rules.
Still, the JOBS Act appears to loosen financial communication more broadly. For instance, the bill will relax rules on how investment firms can market themselves to the public, reversing regulations that restrict what hedge funds and private equity firms can say publicly about their investment strategy.
Regulators were against the JOBS Act from the beginning. When the measure cleared hurdles in the House, the Securities and Exchange Commission scrambled to stop it in its tracks.
The law will ''weaken investor protection,'' Mary Schapiro, chairwoman of the S.E.C. warned last month.
''We should not walk backwards here,'' she said. ''Collusive behavior between analysts and bankers cost investors huge sums, shattered confidence in the integrity of research, and damaged the markets themselves.''
The JOBS Act is far reaching and also exempts emerging growth companies from certain disclosure and governance requirements for up to five years. It will also provide a new form of financing to start up companies.
Through what is known as crowdfunding, or the sale of small amounts of stock to many individuals, companies could solicit equity investments through the Internet or elsewhere, raising up to $1 million annually without being required to register the shares for public trading with regulators. Some see this as a big deal for entrepreneurs who can now sell their ideas without having to find a big financial backer. Others say this provision will bring a return to the boiler rooms of the days gone by where brokers peddled worthless stock to unassuming investors.
''It's almost an experiment of sorts,'' said Richard Roberts, a former S.E.C. commissioner who now represents companies affected by the JOBS Act. ''If any parts are a disaster, Congress can change it.''
Robert Glauber, former head of the National Association of Securities Dealers, the precursor agency to Finra, and a lecturer at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government, says the 2003 accord was a ''legal settlement'' and a legislative modification is ''perfectly appropriate.''
''A sweeping prohibition of certain behavior never made sense,'' he said. ''Easing the restrictions for a select group of companies will give us a chance to see if it provides useful information to the marketplace without investor abuse. The key is to make sure the banker-analyst relationship is properly disclosed and that the S.E.C. carefully monitors the effects of the change.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eliot Spitzer announced, in 2003, a settlement that built a wall between analysts and bankers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE THEILER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STARTUPS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



167 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: Looking for the Next Generation in Private Equity

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
Over the last few decades, a handful of deal makers have reigned over the private equity industry, wielding vast influence over Wall Street and, more broadly, the world economy.
Now in their 60s and billionaires several times over, these men - Stephen A. Schwarzman of the Blackstone Group, Henry R. Kravis of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, David M. Rubenstein of the Carlyle Group and Leon D. Black of the Apollo Management Group, chief among them - are surely ready to pass the baton to the next generation.
Yet none plan to step aside any time soon. These founders all answer the succession question virtually the same way. They insist that despite their advancing ages, they are not going anywhere. And, in any case, they say that they think constantly about succession and have plenty of executives who are more than capable of leading their businesses.
''Retirement is unnatural for workaholics, but passing the mantle is not,'' said Mr. Rubenstein, 62. He started Carlyle 25 years ago and still runs it with two other co-founders, William Conway, 65, and Daniel D'Aniello, 62. The peripatetic Mr. Rubenstein spent more than 180 days on the road last year. 
''There is no one at Blackstone who, if they were hit by a bus tomorrow, the firm wouldn't continue on unimpaired,'' Hamilton E. James, 61, Blackstone's president, said. ''And that includes me and Steve.''
Today, now that these private equity shops are big publicly traded companies (or, in the case of Carlyle, about to go public), shareholders and investors want to know: who will run these companies when they do step aside?
Though the founders have set forth no clear succession plans, they say the concern is overblown. And the Wall Street analysts who follow the companies largely agree.
''There is certainly key-man risk, but when it comes to next-generation leadership, there is a significant talent pool in place below the founding principals,'' said Roger Freeman, an analyst with Barclays Capital.
But who is this deep bench of talent that may someday run these companies?
The answer to this question is more than just Wall Street gossip. It has enormous implications for corporate America and global business.
There are 14,200 companies in the United States that are backed by private equity firms, according to the Private Equity Growth Capital Council, the industry's trade group. Companies backed by private equity employ about 8.1 million people worldwide, the council says. State pension funds have billions of dollars of retirees' money invested with private equity funds.
And while these businesses are still a small fraction of the size of the largest banks, they have become big, global operations. The largest private equity firms, a group that includes Bain Capital and TPG, now oversee more than just their cornerstone multibillion-dollar buyout funds. They have become diversified money managers that also run hedge funds, real estate businesses and other investment operations around the world.
Along with these changes, a next generation of deal makers has gradually emerged from the shadows of the founders.
On paper, private equity's new guard is a homogenous bunch. A composite sketch looks more or less like this: A man - and they are almost all men - in his early- to mid-40s with a degree from either the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania or Harvard Business School. Some started at the companies right out of college. But most worked for a few years as an investment banker, typically at Goldman Sachs or Morgan Stanley, before joining in the mid-1990s just as the private equity industry was taking off.
Consider Jonathan D. Gray, 42, the head of Blackstone's global real estate business. He joined the company straight out of Penn and never left, leading Blackstone's emergence as one of the world's largest property investors. This year, Mr. Gray joined the company's board, a clear signal that he is a possible successor to Mr. Schwarzman.
At K.K.R., a number of names have emerged as contenders. Last year, at the company's investor day at the Pierre Hotel in Manhattan, Mr. Kravis, 68, made it clear that he and his co-founder and cousin George R. Roberts, also 68, were still in charge, while also sending the message that K.K.R. was no longer just the Henry and George Show.
''George and I hear about succession all of the time, and we're not quite sure why,'' deadpanned Mr. Kravis.
''You're going to hear from about 15 people today and you will see the kind of quality, the people that we have, the deep bench, the strengths that they have, and there's no question that any number of these people can lead K.K.R. once George and I step down, which I have to say to you is, hopefully, in the distant future,'' Mr. Kravis said.
Among the speakers: Scott C. Nuttall, 39, who oversees several of the company's businesses and serves as a point person for the Wall Street community; Joseph Y. Bae, 40, head of K.K.R. Asia: Marc S. Lipschultz, 43, who runs energy investments, and Alexander Navab, 46, a senior buyout executive.
At Apollo, Mr. Black's two top lieutenants are his co-founders, Joshua J. Harris, 47, and Marc J. Rowan, 49. The two worked with Mr. Black at the investment bank Drexel Burnham Lambert before it collapsed in 1990. They started Apollo that same year.
What private equity executives and investment bankers say about the emerging leaders is that, as a group, they lack the founders' outsize personalities and tendency for conspicuous consumption that at times have hurt the industry's image.
Having amassed extraordinary wealth, the founders have also become some of the country's leading philanthropists. In 2008, Mr. Schwarzman donated $100 million to the New York Public Library, whose main building is now named after him. Mr. Kravis recently pledged $100 million to Columbia Business School. Mr. Rubenstein donated $7.5 million this year to help repair earthquake damage to the Washington Monument.
''It takes a certain personality type to be a founder,'' said a senior private equity executive who spoke only on the condition of anonymity because he did not want to risk alienating any of the founders.''It's got its great strengths, but the high profiles and great wealth can keep an unwanted spotlight on the industry. I suspect the new leadership will probably fly more below the radar.''
Still, these younger private equity executives are starting to make headlines for their extracurricular pursuits. Mr. Harris of Apollo and David S. Blitzer of Blackstone led a group last fall that bought the Philadelphia 76ers basketball team for $280 million. Mr. Bae of K.K.R. received attention a few years ago when he led a group that paid $129,000 for a giant white truffle from Italy at a children's charity event.
A nagging problem facing the big private equity companies is how to retain their top talent when the leaders show no signs of moving on. Some companies, like Warburg Pincus and Advent International, have already made a leadership transition to the younger generation, but the largest ones have not.
''I think a number of these firms do not feel the pressure of having to identify successors,'' said Mr. James of Blackstone. ''Their founders expect to be in their seats a long time. And that has implications for your up-and-coming talent because there isn't enough succession at the moment. If the brass ring is too far away, your best people will leave.''
To keep the brass ring near, Blackstone and others have been placing their highly regarded executives in leadership roles as they expand into new businesses and markets.
Last year, for instance, Blackstone moved Michael S. Chae, 43, one of its top deal makers in the United States, to Hong Kong where he now heads the Asian private equity operations. Mr. Blitzer, 42, a Blackstone senior executive, was put in charge of a new multibillion-dollar investment portfolio for the New Jersey state pension fund. The companies have also recruited senior financial services executives from the outside into leadership roles.
A year ago, Apollo brought on Marc Spilker, 47, a former co-head of asset management at Goldman Sachs, as its president. K.K.R. has brought on William C. Sonneborn, 42, a former president of the asset manager the TCW Group, to build a traditional money management arm. Carlyle last year hired as its chief financial officer Adena Friedman, 42, formerly the chief financial officer of Nasdaq.
Four years ago, Blackstone acquired GSO Capital Partners, a hedge fund that invested in distressed debt and other fixed income securities. Today, Bennett J. Goodman, 55, the co-founder of GSO, oversees about $46 billion in credit-related assets for Blackstone. Mr. Freeman, the Barclays analyst, said that while the lack of upward mobility could eventually become an issue, if the founders pick a clear successor, they risk having the also-rans leave.
''If anything, retention is a bigger issue than succession,'' Mr. Freeman said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE NEXT ECHELON: The leaders of top equity groups all say they have deep benches of executive talent. Some of those people are, from left, David S. Blitzer, 42, a senior executive at the Blackstone Group who is in charge of a multibillion-dollar investment portfolio for the New Jersey state pension fund
Jonathan D. Gray, 42, who is the head of Blackstone's global real estate business
and Joshua J. Harris, 47, one of the founders of the Apollo Management Group. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE PLUNKETT/BLOOMBERG NEWS
THE BLACKSTONE GROUP
TIM SHAFFER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
PROMISING YOUNGER EXECUTIVES: Marc S. Lipschultz, 43, above, is global head of energy and infrastructure at Kohlberg Kravis Roberts. Marc J. Rowan, 49, is one of the founders of Apollo Global Management. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 JONATHAN ALCORN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); SUCCESSION PLANS (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); PENSION FUNDS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (68%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (84%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (74%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (57%); APOLLO ADVISORS LP (57%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (57%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (52%)

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (84%); BX (NYSE) (74%); APO (NYSE) (57%); CG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (74%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (74%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (57%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%)

PERSON: JONATHAN GRAY (73%); DANIEL D'ANIELLO (72%); HENRY KRAVIS (58%); WILLIAM E CONWAY JR (57%); LEON BLACK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



168 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Romney Says Obama Hides His Agenda

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The day after his clean sweep of three Republican primaries, Mitt Romney attacked President Obama on Wednesday for a ''hide-and-seek campaign'' that disguises his real intentions on the budget, foreign policy, energy and other policy touchstones.
Appearing before a group of journalists that had hosted the president on Tuesday, Mr. Romney began by recalling Mr. Obama's recent comment to Russia's leader, in a moment picked up by a live microphone, that his flexibility on foreign policy would increase after the election. 
''That incident calls his candor into serious question,'' Mr. Romney said, and he asked on what other issues Mr. Obama would disclose his plans only after re-election.
It was the latest indication that the president and the candidate most likely to be the Republican nominee -- as Mr. Romney is seen, at least among Wednesday's audience of journalists -- are fully engaged in the high-stakes enterprise of defining each other in the most unfavorable terms, seven months before the November election.
That was Mr. Obama's objective on Tuesday, when, as Mr. Romney strengthened his standing as the Republican front-runner, the president lashed out at him for supporting a Republican budget plan that Mr. Obama labeled ''social Darwinism.'' And Mr. Romney wasted no time in striking back, accusing the president of handing off to the Democratic leadership in Congress an economic program that he characterized as ''a grab bag of pet projects,'' and of lacking the courage to take on entitlement spending.
The courage of his convictions, Mr. Romney said, was what he shared with the Republican plan's leading sponsor, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, who campaigned at his side in Wisconsin, the tightest of the three contests he won on Tuesday.
Although Mr. Romney's own proposals may differ in some detail from what the House Republicans just approved, he has made his support for the Ryan plan clear, to the delight of those in the Obama camp who are glad to campaign against it.
''Unlike President Obama, I have the courage to stand behind my plan and the leadership to enact it,'' Mr. Romney asserted.
He said there was no better example of the president's vacillation than on the question of federal spending, especially on Medicare and other entitlement programs. ''He has failed to enact or even propose a serious plan to solve the entitlement crisis,'' he said.
Mr. Romney spoke before a gathering of newspaper editors and reporters in Washington, where Mr. Obama the previous day castigated him for supporting the budget plan, approved last week by House Republicans without a single Democratic vote.
Taking a few questions, he said Mr. Obama's remarks on Tuesday were full of ''distortions and inaccuracies'' too numerous to list. And as he did in his prepared remarks, which he followed scrupulously, he defended the House spending plan, saying Mr. Obama had relied on ''straw men'' to criticize its spending cuts.
Asked about the tit-for-tat speeches, Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Obama's remarks on Tuesday had been full of specifics -- ''a comprehensive, detailed, dare I say wonky exposition of his views of what our budget priorities ought to be and his views on why the Republican budget put forward by Chairman Ryan is not the right solution.''
All but attaching Mr. Romney's name to it, Mr. Carney said that ''the Ryan Republican budget would become the law of the land if someone else were to occupy the Oval Office next year and if Republicans continue to effectively control Congress.''
The ideas Mr. Ryan and Mr. Romney have campaigned for are not ''the idea of a rump faction of the Republican Party,'' he said. ''This is what now is mainstream Republican thinking.''
The Senate's majority Democrats do not intend to pass any budget, relying instead on the outlines of last summer's debt deal between Congress and the White House. If the Republican budget plan were ever to become law, Congressional committees would have to cut spending over the next 10 years by a total of $5.3 trillion below what Mr. Obama seeks.
It also would order House committees to draft cuts in projected deficits worth $261 billion in order to head off automatic cuts to the military that would otherwise take place next year in the absence of a broad deficit reduction plan, which Congress was unable to agree upon last year.
Politically, the Ryan approach would require making some unpopular choices in an election year. The Republican argument, which Mr. Romney echoes, is that the alternative is an irresponsible bleeding of the nation's already debt-laden balance sheet.
The Ryan plan seeks to rein in debt largely through changes in entitlement and discretionary spending rather than through increases in tax rates, which it would reduce while eliminating many tax loopholes.
According to the Congressional Budget Office, Mr. Ryan's plan calls for revenues to rise to 19 percent of G.D.P. in 2030 from 15.5 percent in 2011, while spending on Medicare would rise to 4.25 percent from 3.25 percent, and Social Security to 6 percent from 4.75 percent. Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program would drop to 1.25 percent from 2 percent over the two decades.But the cuts in other spending programs would be much steeper -- to less than 6 percent of G.D.P. from more than 12 percent, and even less another 20 years into the future.
These long term effects were based on the projections provided by Mr. Ryan and his staff, the budget office noted; its own nonpartisan staff ''has not considered whether the specified paths are consistent with the policy proposals'' contained in the legislation the Republicans pushed through the House.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); WRITERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); APPROVALS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); MEDICARE (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); PAUL RYAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



169 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: After a Rollicking Primary, a Different Kind of Fight in November

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- If anything is stable in this presidential race, it is the idea that 2012 is a volatile campaign year.
In part that reflects the last two elections, when Democrats and Republicans in turn won big victories, and the expectation that November represents a tiebreaker. Even more, it reflects a roller coaster Republican primary campaign, which at different moments has elevated Michele Bachmann, Rick Perry, Herman Cain, Newt Gingrich, Rick Santorum and Mitt Romney.
So now that Republicans have begun rallying around Mr. Romney, does that signal the start of a mercurial, topsy-turvy general election fight with President Obama? 
Almost certainly not.
Far more likely, say election experts of all stripes, is a narrowly contested campaign revolving around the mobilization of party loyalists and an attempt to win over a small slice of voters who will remain undecided until almost the end. In other words, get used to numbers like these from the latest New York Times/CBS News poll: 47 percent for Mr. Obama, 44 percent for Mr. Romney, 9 percent uncommitted.
While either candidate could win, it is ''utter nonsense'' to expect large gyrations in the voters' preferences this fall, said Mark Mellman, a Democratic pollster.
Daron Shaw, a political scientist at the University of Texas and a Republican campaign adviser, said ''there's no relationship'' between the two phases of the 2012 campaign. Primaries are naturally volatile. They force partisans to choose among candidates of similar philosophies and platforms, which swells the importance of subjective, less predictable factors like personality and messaging.
And early in this Republican primary season, the turbulence was magnified because Mr. Romney was matched against a fast-changing cast of alternatives, who dropped out one by one as voters learned more about them.
As the nominating contest progressed from state to state, Mr. Santorum, Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney took turns winning various points on the map. Yet exit polls suggested that these candidates did not succeed in shifting opinion, but simply benefited from a state's demographic makeup. States with more moderate voters tended to favor Mr. Romney; states with more evangelical Christian voters tended to vote for Mr. Santorum. Mr. Gingrich won two contests, his home state, Georgia, and South Carolina, which is next door.
Big swings in opinion are even less likely in the general election. In an era marked by polarization, Mr. Mellman noted, most voters are ''anchored very firmly'' to Republicans or Democrats and grow more so during the campaign.
Mr. Obama's approval ratings have drifted up since last fall, tracking Americans' growing confidence in economic conditions.
When the Times/CBS News poll last month showed Mr. Obama's approval rating dropping to 41 percent, some analysts saw that as another sign of volatility, this time because of rising gas prices. Obama campaign advisers remain skeptical of the poll's results, noting that other surveys at the time showed the president's approval ratings at 50 percent or more.
''The volatility isn't in the electorate, it's in the polls,'' said Joel Benenson, an Obama campaign pollster. He pointed to both margins of error and methodological differences among the growing roster of publicly available polls.
In significant ways, Mr. Obama's standing evokes memories of the last time an incumbent president sought re-election.
In 2004, George W. Bush's presidency divided voters along starkly partisan lines. Opinion locked in so early -- thanks in part to the proliferation of political media -- that John Kerry, the Democratic nominee, did not receive much of the traditional ''bump'' in the polls after his nominating convention.
As with Mr. Bush, Mr. Obama's presidency has divided voters. ''He's locked in much the way Bush was locked in,'' said Mr. Shaw, who advised Mr. Bush's campaign in 2004. In Times/CBS News polls in the first quarter of 2012, Mr. Obama's share of the vote against Mr. Romney has ranged from 45 percent to 48 percent; Mr. Romney's share has ranged from 42 percent to 47 percent.
Mr. Shaw doubts it is possible to repeat the swings in opinion that marked the more turbulent races in modern political history. Those include 1968 (Hubert H. Humphrey versus Richard M. Nixon), 1976 (Jimmy Carter versus Gerald R. Ford) and 1988 (Michael S. Dukakis against the elder George Bush).
That is not to say that the electorate is unmovable. The list of swing states has changed since 2004. Population shifts, including growth in the number of Hispanic voters and moderate suburbanites, have turned generally reliable Republican states like Colorado, Virginia and North Carolina into prime Democratic targets.
Moreover, though the number of ''persuadable'' voters remains small, it may be slightly larger than eight years ago. Mr. Mellman, for instance, pegs that share of the electorate at 5 percent to 10 percent, compared with less than 5 percent when he advised Mr. Kerry's campaign.
Others suspect it could be even more as voters consider the 2008 financial crisis under a Republican president, the deep recession that persisted under the Democratic incumbent and the tentative recovery.
''There's a lot of churning going on,'' said Neil Newhouse, Mr. Romney's campaign pollster. Morris Fiorina, a Stanford University political scientist, envisions a pool of swing voters of 10 percent or more, encompassing working-class social conservatives and more affluent moderates.
Even a small group of undecided voters could significantly change a close, narrowly contested race by breaking sharply enough near Election Day.
Mr. Shaw speculated, for instance, that if the economy continues on its upward course, a swing group could break 70 percent to 30 percent for Mr. Obama. If swing voters make up 10 percent of the electorate, Mr. Obama's current narrow lead could turn into a November rout of Mr. Romney.
An even split of swing voters would keep the race close. But a significant economic reversal could make the undecided group break 70 percent to 30 percent for Mr. Romney, wiping out Mr. Obama's lead and leading to a new president in January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); RELIGION (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK SANTORUM (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); RICK PERRY (72%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



170 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Haunted by the Primaries

 BODY:
Mitt Romney's three primary victories on Tuesday probably shut off what little oxygen remained for the campaigns of his rivals for the Republican nomination.
His nearly insurmountable lead does not justify efforts by party elders to push Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich out of the presidential race. They have every right to go on, even if they continue marginalizing the Republican Party by shoving it further rightward. But it does mean that Mr. Romney is starting to try to climb out of the ''severely conservative'' hole he dug for himself during the first three months of primaries. 
As he contemplates a less fanatical general-election audience, he is beginning to talk about the interests of women (not mentioning his plan to ''get rid of'' Planned Parenthood), conceding that the occasional regulation might be useful (though he wants to eliminate many of the most important), even admitting that President Obama didn't cause the recession.
His problem, of course, is that wherever he goes, he will be followed by those extreme positions and careless statements, and others he made to get to the front of the pack. No shake of the Etch A Sketch can erase them.
Campaigning in Wisconsin over the weekend, Mr. Romney seemed to acknowledge that he wants to repair a bad impression left with many Hispanic voters. ''We are going to have to make sure as we talk to Hispanic voters that we say, 'We are not anti-immigrant,' '' he said on Sunday. ''We are pro-immigrant. We are the party that loves people coming into this country as immigrants.''
It's going to take a lot more than that. In February, Mr. Romney cast his immigration position in concrete, praising as a ''model'' the Arizona law that requires immigrants to show their papers on demand, and makes mass expulsion state policy. That cannot be moderated away with soothing words about a love for immigrants.
On Wednesday, he tried to deny that the House Republican budget he has praised for weeks was particularly extreme. On Tuesday, President Obama ran through a long list of severe cuts the budget would make to social and domestic programs.
Mr. Romney insisted the budget wouldn't necessarily harm the most important programs, but just how would he cut $3.3 trillion over a decade? The only program he cited for termination was health care reform, and cutting it would add $210 billion to the deficit over a decade. Campaigning on the House budget without being specific about the pain it will cause will not be possible in the general election.
At times, Mr. Romney even seems to want voters to forget which job he is running for. In his victory speech on Tuesday, he accused the president of building a ''government-centered society'' where free enterprise takes a back seat. But the job he is running for is head of government, not C.E.O. of corporate America.
Voters expect government to take an active role in helping rebuild the economy, not to sit back and do nothing. Mr. Romney opposed the immensely successful rescue of the auto industry and the regulations to prevent another economic meltdown.
His party has rewarded him for advocating government passivity in the face of economic struggle. A larger electorate is likely to be far more skeptical.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); BUDGETS (87%); IMMIGRATION (86%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (56%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



171 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Engineers Convene to Seek Ways to Strengthen New York State's Power Grid

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
It was described by one participant as a ''party for engineers'': a conference of more than 500 specialists brainstorming about a grid so powerful that New York State could embrace wind power, cut electricity rates and close the Indian Point nuclear plant.
Yet many participants emphasized obstacles and uncertainties at the meeting on Wednesday in Upper Manhattan. The forum was organized by a state task force on Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's proposal to create a robust ''energy highway.'' The state is awash in generating capacity because the recession has stunted industrial demand. But the state's energy infrastructure is ailing, said Gil C. Quinones, president and chief executive of the New York Power Authority and co-chairman of the task force. He noted that 42 percent of the state's power plants were more than 40 years old, and 22 percent were more than 50 years old. 
At some transmission bottlenecks, he said, the state relies on antiquated transmission lines on wooden poles.
''We utilities don't like to say 'old,' but they're aging,'' said James P. Laurito, president of the Central Hudson Gas and Electric Corporation and the chairman of a statewide study of transmission and reliability.
Of the 12,000 miles of transmission lines in New York State, about 4,700 will require replacement in the next 40 years, he said. Bottlenecks in the system cost consumers $1.1 billion in 2010, he said, with cheap power from upstate unable to squeeze into downstate areas and more expensive plants supplying the electricity instead.
The state also needs a better grid to ''allow for the potential retirement of Indian Point,'' Mr. Laurito said.
A 2012-13 state budget agreement announced last month by Governor Cuomo and legislative leaders includes $16.2 million for energy research and development and for a plan to secure billions of dollars in private investment in the so-called energy highway.
The governor, who is seeking to force the two Indian Point reactors to close in the next few years as their initial 40-year operating licenses expire, wants that plan to reduce the reactors' importance in the system.
But James F. X. Steets, a spokesman for Entergy, the plant's owner, said that the more emphasis was put on reliability and on clean energy as opposed to fossil fuels, the more likely it was that Indian Point would keep running.
Joseph P. Oates, the vice president for energy management at Con Edison, which formerly owned an Indian Point reactor, said: ''I'm not going to say it's a good plant or a bad plant. But if you're going to shut it down, you have to have something in its place.''
The state task force is supposed to develop a blueprint for development and financing by late summer, based partly on submissions from companies that attended the meeting on Wednesday.
Paul N. Steckley, director of transmission development at Brookfield Asset Management, a Toronto company that owns 4,000 megawatts of renewable generation, questioned whether New York could develop an approval process fast enough to assure rapid construction of transmission lines. Indian Point's operating licenses expire in 2013 and 2015.
''There is transmission to be developed here -- it's a matter of how quickly,'' he said. Securing regulatory approval for new transmission lines in New York State is arduous. New York State's last major internal transmission line, the 207-mile Marcy South line, which runs from the Utica area into Dutchess County in the Hudson Valley, was finished in 1988. A smaller project, a 9.5-mile line from Yonkers to Upper Manhattan, was completed last year.
It has been easier to build new connections to neighboring states than across New York State. Two underwater lines running to Long Island, one from New Jersey and one from Connecticut, have been completed in recent years. A 600-megawatt line running under the Hudson from New Jersey to Midtown Manhattan is supposed to open next year.
John Zahurancik, the vice president of AES Energy Storage, said he hoped the updating of New York's grid would make space for projects like a battery bank that his company has proposed to build on Long Island.
AES envisions batteries that would charge at night, when electricity demand is low, using power lines and efficient power plants that would otherwise be idle. In principle, the bank could be used in place of a new large, expensive ''peaking'' power plant that would run for four hours or so on hot afternoons.
James Denn, a spokesman for the New York Public Service Commission, emphasized that the push for a new grid was occurring amid particular market uncertainty. ''We have record low natural gas prices, so you don't know which kind of power plant to build,'' he said. If prices remain low, anything built other than gas plants will not be competitive, specialists said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gil C. Quinones, who leads New York's power authority and a task force on an energy highway, spoke at a forum Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER FAILURES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY RESEARCH (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); UTILITY RATES (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%)

COMPANY: CENTRAL HUDSON GAS & ELECTRIC CORP (68%); ENTERGY CORP (58%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%)

TICKER: ETR (NYSE) (58%); ED (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (68%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (68%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



172 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'TENT CITY U.S.A.'; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: Homeless In Nashville: Survival Tips

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

 BODY:
The ramshackle lodgings, the scavenged blankets, the angry confrontations: ''Tent City U.S.A.,'' a documentary being shown Thursday night on the Oprah Winfrey Network, brings to mind some of the typical images of Occupy Wall Street. Unlike most of the occupiers of Zuccotti Park, however, the residents of Tent City don't have anywhere else to go.
Part of OWN's slate of original documentaries backed by famous Hollywood names, ''Tent City U.S.A.'' (Gabriel Byrne is an executive producer) examines an encampment of homeless people in Nashville, a city, we're told, where the rate of homelessness is well above the national average. A few months into filming, something happened that was a disaster for the camp's residents and a macabre stroke of luck for the documentary's director, Steven Cantor (''Devil's Playground''): the record-breaking Tennessee floods of 2010 put Tent City under 10 feet of water, uprooting the film's subjects and sending them down different paths, variously hopeful, heroic, troubling and bleak. 
We can assume that Mr. Cantor and his crew were drawn to Tent City in the first place by reports of its self-policing, community-minded nature, and before the floods struck, he had discovered remarkably capable and compelling central characters. Wendell, an unemployed carpenter, builds a communal shower and furnishes his own tent with a television, a refrigerator and an Internet connection. A man nicknamed Macgyver displays acute intelligence along with a profound ambivalence about joining the permanently housed world; he teaches new arrivals how to spread twigs around their tents as a D.I.Y. alarm system.
It sometimes feels as if Mr. Cantor is struggling just to keep up with his subjects as they move among street camps, motel rooms, illegal squats and, in one inspiring instance, a newly rented apartment. The not-quite-90-minute film (two hours with commercials) also has to cover a battle with a not-in-my-backyard Nashville suburb, an election campaign for a seat on a city commission and a wedding. Among the occasional forgivably sentimental moments, the most touching may be the sight of a homeless couple counting out quarters to complete the purchase of the bride's $7 wedding dress.
''Tent City U.S.A.'' takes a low-key, anecdotal approach, for the most part letting the homeless tell their own stories, though two pastors who worked closely with the original residents are also important subjects. It demonstrates, without making too much of a point of it, how these homeless people are often pieces in a game played by politicians, government agencies, the police and even the nonprofit groups and churches that do so much to help them.
Another message, articulated by a researcher early in the film, is that in their earlier lives these homeless people are not linked most strongly by drugs or alcohol, by crime or abuse. The things they have in common are fragility and isolation; those who naturally cut themselves off from other people are less able to stay in society once bad luck strikes. When the most successful of Mr. Cantor's Tent City subjects is congratulated on his new apartment, he hesitates noticeably when he replies, ''It's -- it's the way it's supposed to be.''
Tent City U.S.A.
OWN, Thursday night at 9, Eastern and Pacific times; 8, Central time.
Directed by Steven Cantor; Gabriel Byrne, Leora Rosenberg, Terry Clark and Daniel Laikind, executive producers; Mr. Cantor and Margaret McCombs, producers; Pax Wassermann, editor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (84%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); RELIGION (60%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (50%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Tent City U.S.A. (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



173 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Moves Toward Normalizing Relations With Myanmar

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and THOMAS FULLER; Steven Lee Myers reported from Washington, and Thomas Fuller from Yangon, Myanmar.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration on Wednesday announced its most significant moves yet to open relations with Myanmar, lifting the travel ban on its senior leaders and easing some sanctions that have starved the country of most American investments for more than two decades.
Only days after special elections that brought the country's Nobel Prize-winning dissident, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, and her party into office for the first time, the administration also said it would reopen a United States Agency for International Development office, clearing the way for an expansion of foreign assistance. It also will remove restrictions on the work of American nongovernmental organizations in areas like health, education and the environment. 
The administration's actions do not lift the sweeping array of economic sanctions in place against Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, but the announcement punctuated an extraordinary and swift warming of relations between two countries that have been estranged ever since Myanmar's military junta threw out the results of democratic elections in 1990 won by Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi's party.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, who visited Myanmar late last year, praised its new reform-minded president, U Thein Sein, for the political changes he has ushered in since taking office a year ago, and congratulated Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi on a belated election to public office that, this time, appears unlikely to be overturned.
''The results of the April 1 parliamentary by-elections represent a dramatic demonstration of popular will that brings a new generation of reformers into government,'' Mrs. Clinton said in the State Department's Treaty Room. ''This is an important step in the country's transformation.''
In Myanmar, the state news media published a final list of winners on Wednesday, confirming that Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi's party, the National League for Democracy, swept 43 of 45 contested seats for the upper and lower houses of Parliament and regional assemblies.
The Union Solidarity and Development Party, which is backed by the still-dominant military, won one seat in a district where the main opposition candidate was taken off the ballot because of rules involving the citizenship of his parents. A smaller ethnic-based party won the other seat.
Such questions about the conduct of the election -- and other issues involving basic rights and the treatment of ethnic minorities -- remain a grave concern, Mrs. Clinton said, but she made it clear that the United States wanted to add momentum to the political and economic changes that have occurred in Myanmar.
''President Thein Sein and many of his colleagues inside the government helped launch their country on a historic new path,'' she said. ''And while there is much to be done, and significant tests lie ahead, we applaud the president and his colleagues for their leadership and courage.''
In the next few days, she said, the administration will name the first American ambassador to the country since 1990 after the approval of the Myanmar government, a diplomatic courtesy known as agreement. In addition to opening an aid office, the administration will also stop using its influence to restrict activities by the United Nations Development Fund. American and other nongovernmental organizations now hoping to work in the country face many of the same sanctions as American companies, but those will now be eased.
Most of the sanctions imposed on Myanmar over the years are written in law, and it will require Congressional action to lift them, a process that could take years. The administration, however, will use its authority to waive those sanctions in certain sectors, like the financial, agriculture, tourism and telecommunications industries, according to administration officials who discussed the decision on the condition of anonymity according to State Department rules. The Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control has the authority to grant licenses in some cases, allowing the administration to strictly control any investments.
''We're taking the bluntness out of the sanctions,'' one official said.
Sanctions on the timber and gems industries -- notorious for links to the military -- are unlikely to be eased, but investments in financial sectors that, for example, introduce credit cards to one of the few places on earth that does not have them could spur broader economic reforms and development, the officials said.
The same array of sanctions has also prohibited travel to the United States by most senior government officials. While the administration does not keep a formal list as it does in some other countries, like Belarus, it will now actively encourage more visits by Myanmar officials and lawmakers.
Sanctions against Myanmar have had strong support in Congress for years, but there are signs that American lawmakers are willing to reconsider their necessity. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, called for ''the process of easing sanctions'' in a statement this week and expressed hope that members of Myanmar's parliament would visit soon.
Some advocates urged the American government to proceed with caution. ''We know that they need to do something, some kind of positive gestures,'' said Aung Din, a former political prisoner and now the head of the U.S. Campaign for Burma in Washington, ''but if they do it very quickly, and make it too generous, it will only undermine the democratic forces in the country.''
The administration's announcement came on a day when leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations called on Western countries to lift sanctions ''immediately'' in light of ''significant positive developments'' in the country. At the close of a summit meeting in Cambodia, which Mr. Thein Sein attended, the leaders welcomed the elections as ''free, fair and transparent'' and said they represented a ''significant step towards further democratization.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke about Myanmar on Wednesday in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BYELECTIONS (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ETHNICITY (60%); ETHNIC GROUPS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); AUNG SAN SUU KYI (89%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); THEIN SEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (96%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



174 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Obama Signs Ban On Insider Trading

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
President Obama on Wednesday signed an ethics bill that bans insider trading by members of Congress and requires thousands of federal employees to disclose information about their personal finances.
The signing came 10 weeks after Mr. Obama called for such legislation in his State of the Union address.
In signing the bill, Mr. Obama said he hoped it would reduce ''the corrosive influence of money in politics'' and help cure ''the deficit of trust between this city and the rest of the country.'' 
As a result of the legislation, Mr. Obama said, ''if members of Congress use nonpublic information to gain an unfair advantage in the market, they are breaking the law.''
The bill had broad bipartisan support, illustrated by the presence of Senator Scott P. Brown, Republican of Massachusetts, on stage with Mr. Obama when he signed the bill.
Mr. Obama praised Representative Louise M. Slaughter, Democrat of New York, who introduced the first version of the legislation in 2006 and had been fighting for it since then. The president said Ms. Slaughter was not at the signing ceremony because she broke her leg this week.
The bill -- the Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge Act, or Stock Act -- was approved in the House in February by a vote of 417 to 2. The Senate agreed to it by unanimous consent after voting 96 to 3 to end debate on the measure in late March.
''We have made clear today that nobody is above the law and that members of Congress must play by the exact same set of rules as every other American,'' Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, Democrat of New York and an architect of the legislation, said.
On Thursday, Mr. Obama plans to sign another bipartisan bill, which would make it easier for small companies to raise money from investors. Members of both parties said the measure would help create jobs and strengthen the economy.
Senator Brown said the two bills showed ''what a bipartisan approach can accomplish, even in a Congress infamous for its divisions and gridlock.''
The new law prohibits members of Congress from trading stocks and other securities on the basis of confidential information they receive as lawmakers. It makes clear that the insider trading ban in federal law applies to members of Congress and their aides and to officials in the executive and judicial branches of the federal government.
In addition, the law requires members of Congress to disclose the purchase or sale of stocks, bonds, commodities futures and other securities within 45 days of transactions, rather than once a year as they now do. The information will be posted on the Internet.
Thousands of federal agency officials, including many at the White House, will be subject to similar reporting requirements. The law also requires members of Congress and executive branch officials to disclose the terms of mortgages on their homes and prohibits them from receiving special access to initial public stock offerings.
An earlier Senate version of the legislation would have required ''political intelligence'' firms to register as lobbyists do. The new law calls instead for a one-year study of such firms, which collect information on Capitol Hill and sell it to hedge funds, mutual funds and other investors.
Mr. Obama urged Congress on Wednesday to act on two other proposals, which he described this way in his State of the Union address: ''Let's limit any elected official from owning stocks in industries they impact. Let's make sure people who bundle campaign contributions for Congress can't lobby Congress, and vice versa.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); INSIDER TRADING (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); ETHICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); POLITICS (79%); FUNDRAISING (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BONE FRACTURES (74%); BONDS (73%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); APPROVALS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); LOUISE MCINTOSH SLAUGHTER (73%); SCOTT BROWN (58%); SHERROD BROWN (58%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



175 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: As Part of Pact, U.S. Marines Arrive in Australia, in China's Strategic Backyard

BYLINE: By MATT SIEGEL

 BODY:
SYDNEY, Australia -- Defense Minister Stephen Smith greeted about 180 Marines in the northern coast city of Darwin on Wednesday, presiding at a welcome ceremony for the first of 2,500 American troops to be deployed here under an agreement increasing the American military presence in China's strategic backyard.
The Marines will engage in training exercises with the Australian Defense Force during their six-month rotation as part of the agreement signed in November by President Obama and Prime Minister Julia Gillard. The pact is part of the president's publicly stated strategy of shifting the American military's long-term focus toward the Pacific and an increasingly assertive China. Beijing has accused Mr. Obama of escalating military tensions in the region. 
Ahead of the welcome ceremony, Mr. Smith touched on the changing regional dynamics during an interview with the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.
''We see this very much as responding and reflecting the fact that the world is moving into our part of the world, the world is moving to the Asia-Pacific and the Indian Ocean,'' Mr. Smith said. ''We need to respond to that. The world needs to essentially come to grips with the rise of China, the rise of India, the move of strategic and political and economic influence to our part of the world.''
The United States has had military bases in the North Pacific since the end of World War II, but its presence in Southeast Asia was greatly diminished in the early 1990s.
Strengthened ties with Australia, one of Washington's foremost allies, will restore a substantial American footprint near the South China Sea, a major commercial shipping route that has been increasingly the focus of Chinese territorial disputes.
There has been speculation here in recent weeks about what form any further regional military cooperation between the longtime allies would take.
Ms. Gillard last week confirmed that discussions with Washington were under way about the possibility of flying long-range American surveillance drones from the remote Cocos Islands -- an Australian territory in the Indian Ocean -- but said no substantial progress had been made on the issue.
A spokesman for Mr. Smith told the newspaper The Australian that the top three priorities to come out of last year's bilateral agreement were the deployment of the Marines over five years, the greater use of Australian Air Force bases for American aircraft and, in the longer term, the prospect of increased ship and submarine visits to the Indian Ocean through a naval base outside Perth, on the country's west coast.
Jeffrey Bleich, the American ambassador to Australia, was quick to dismiss what seemed to be a growing news media consensus here that the increased military presence in the region was aimed primarily at containing China.
''There's this kind of sexy, fun narrative that you hear from pundits and others trying to suggest this is about China, but it's not,'' he said in an interview with Sky TV over the weekend. ''If you just look at the Darwin decision, for example, we've had our Marines stationed in Central Asia, in Iraq and Afghanistan, and they are mostly an amphibious force. So they need to start training and doing amphibious maneuvers again, and we're looking for the best place to do it and the best partners to do it with, and Darwin is an ideal spot for it.''
But Michael Fullilove, director of the Global Issues Program at the Lowy Institute for International Policy in Sydney and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, said that addressing China's recent assertiveness was definitely one of the major aspects of the policy.
Australia views the presence of American forces in the region as a counterbalance to what it sees as China's sometimes erratic foreign policy, he said.
''Given that we know that rising powers can disrupt the system,'' he said, ''it makes sense to balance against the risk of future Chinese recklessness by keeping the U.S. engaged in the region. The more that power can be diffused so that it is spread across different capitals, the less likely you are to have unreasonable actions where one power ignores the other's needs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American Marines during an official welcome ceremony in Darwin, Australia, on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY XAVIER LA CANNA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); NAVIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (75%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (73%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (50%)

COMPANY: AUSTRALIAN BROADCASTING CORP (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%); JULIA GILLARD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (92%); PERTH, AUSTRALIA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) INDIAN OCEAN (93%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NORTHERN TERRITORY, AUSTRALIA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%) AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (95%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); COCOS (KEELING) ISLANDS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



176 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: The Changing Face of Big Money

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
Get out your smallest violin.
It is harder than ever to become one of the world's wealthiest individuals by working on Wall Street.
Profits are getting crimped as new regulations put the brakes on some of Wall Street's riskiest - and most lucrative - practices. Compensation is falling. And stocks, a large part of industry pay, are under pressure.
In this environment, the financial industry is unlikely to be minting new billionaires anytime soon. 
But that's nothing new. Wall Street has rarely generated the wealthiest of the wealthiest.
Just take a look at any of the various lists of the top 10 richest individuals in the world. None of them work on Wall Street. Not one. Most of them were entrepreneurs (or relatives of entrepreneurs) who built businesses like Microsoft, Oracle and Wal-Mart Stores.
While Lloyd Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, and Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, may be examples of Wall Street's freewheeling ways, they are more 1 percent than 0.01 percent. Sandy Weill, the architect of Citigroup, lost his billionaire status after the financial crisis.
On Wall Street, the founders of hedge funds and private equity firms have collected the truly outsize paydays. Think George Soros (worth $20 billion), John Paulson ($12.5 billion), Carl Icahn ($14 billion) or Stephen Schwarzman ($5.5 billion).
But the chances of up-and-coming financiers breaking into the billionaires' club are slim. The so-called alternatives industry - once the entrepreneurial corner of finance - now looks more like a staid, established financial firm. With most of the money flowing to the biggest players, it's harder for upstarts to break into the business and make the big money.
The next generation of big wealth creators is more likely to know Sand Hill Road in Silicon Valley or the Bund in Shanghai - like Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook and Robin Li of Baidu.
None of this is meant to suggest that Wall Street has not made a lot of money - or that top financial executives will not continue to take home large seven-figure paychecks. Over the last 30 years, Wall Street has churned out loads of millionaires, and some billionaires, too. Taken together, the financial industry has put more wealth in more hands than just about any other business (even technology). But it has rarely made anyone Bill Gates-rich.
To really understand the opportunities for - or the obstacles to - creating great wealth on Wall Street today, it is worth reading a study by Thomas Philippon and Ariell Reshef of the National Bureau of Economic Research, which traces industry wages over the last century. Its conclusion might not surprise you: financiers, to put it plainly, were overpaid.
The authors even quantified it. By their calculations, ''30 to 50 percent of wage differentials'' - the difference between an average worker's income and that of a Wall Street financier - is the result of overpayment and ''can be expected to disappear.'' The study, ''Wages and Human Capital in the U.S. Financial Industry: 1909-2006,'' provides a striking history lesson that may prove to be a predictor of what Wall Street - and compensation - may look like over the next 30 years.
Before the Great Depression, the researchers found that the finance sector ''was a high-skill, high-wage industry.'' After the stock market crash, ''a dramatic shift occurred,'' the study said, as Wall Street's ''human capital'' and ''wage premium'' started to decline. From 1950 to 1980, the trend continued, albeit at a ''more moderate pace.''
''By that time, wages in the financial sector were similar, on average, to wages in the rest of the economy,'' the study said.
Then something curious happened. After 1980, the finance sector returned to its roots, handing out large paychecks to highly skilled workers. By 2006, the authors found, ''relative wages and relative education levels went back almost exactly to their pre-1930s levels.''
What the authors did not mention in that passage was why wages changed so markedly. Now, go back and look at the dates again. Most periods coincided with great changes in industry regulation.
After the Depression, the advent of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Glass-Steagall Act made Wall Street more boring. And the industry trudged along in much the same manner until the 1980s, when lawmakers began to dismantle those rules.
Now, policy makers are scrambling to draft new rules under the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul enacted in the wake of the financial crisis. If Mr. Philippon and Mr. Reshef are right, Wall Street is likely to be boring again.
It may be good for the financial system, but bad for would-be billionaires in finance.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 6, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The DealBook column on Thursday, about Wall Street's paucity of billionaires relative to entrepreneurs, misstated the given name for the leader of Baidu, China's most popular search engine. He is Robin Li, not Richard.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (F1)
ONLY MULTIMILLIONAIRES: Sanford I. Weill and his wife, Joan, at the Waldorf- Astoria in 2010. Mr. Weill lost his billionaire status in the financial crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 JUST A 1 PERCENTER: Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman of Goldman Sachs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (F2) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN UELAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BONDS (78%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); WAL-MART STORES INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); WMT (NYSE) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (87%); MARK ZUCKERBERG (77%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (67%); BILL GATES (58%); CARL ICAHN (55%); JAMES DIMON (52%); GEORGE SOROS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012



177 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Marine Deployment Won't Put China At Ease

BYLINE: MARK MCDONALD


HIGHLIGHT: The new deployment of U.S. marines to Australia is part of a military and diplomatic "pivot" by the United States toward the Asia-Pacific region. But the American ambassador to Australia says the deployment has nothing to do with Beijing. 

 BODY:
HONG KONG - The new deployment of U.S. marines to Australia is part of the much-discussed "pivot" by the United States toward the Asia-Pacific region, a series of muscular military and diplomatic initiatives intended to balance the rise of China. 
The first group of marines arrived Tuesday in the port city of Darwin, as reported by my colleague Matt Siegel. The force level in Darwin will eventually reach 2,500.
The American ambassador to Australia, Jeffrey Bleich, said the deployment had nothing to do with China and was more about a new place for the marines to hold training exercises.
"There's this kind of sexy, fun narrative that you hear from pundits and others trying to suggest this is about China, but it's not," Mr. Bleich said in an interview with Sky News.
The ambassador said the Marine Corps, which he noted was "mostly an amphibious force," had been landlocked in recent years, principally in terra firma deployments in Iraq and Central Asia. "So they need to start training and doing amphibious maneuvers again, and we're looking for the best places to do it and the best partners to do it with, and Darwin is an ideal spot for it." 
It remains to be seen whether anyone in the region will actually accept such an argument. China certainly isn't buying it. If China thinks a new insertion of U.S. marines is about China, then it's about China. 
Indeed, when the deployments were first announced, a Defense Ministry spokesman in Beijing said that U.S. moves to strengthen regional military alliances reflect a "Cold War mentality" and would be "detrimental to the mutual trust and cooperation between countries in the region." 
The spokesman's remarks are included in a new, deeply sourced report from the Congressional Research Service, "Pivot to the Pacific? The Obama Administration's 'Rebalancing' Toward Asia."
The report notes that "unofficial commentary in China has been even more sharply critical of the pivot and it is possible that the Chinese leadership may eventually feel pressure to take a harder position in response to public opinion."
Stephen Smith, the Australian defense minister, certainly seemed to put the stationing of the marines in his country in a broader and more Sinocentric context than the American ambassador. For Mr. Smith, it's much more than a training opportunity for an ally:
"We see this very much as responding and reflecting the fact that the world is moving into our part of the world, the world is moving to the Asia-Pacific and the Indian Ocean," he said. "We need to respond to that. The world needs to essentially come to grips with the rise of China, the rise of India, the move of strategic and political and economic influence to our part of the world."
Oorah. Marines begin deployment in Australia, as U.S deepens military presence in Asia-Pacific. reut.rs/HcQFcm
- Ray Kwong (@raykwong) April 4, 2012
The American pivot, it is well to remember, is not solely focused on China. It is more regional, more nuanced, more layered than that. But it also will profoundly affect the U.S.-China bilateral relationship, as the renowned China scholar Kenneth Lieberthal says in his analysis in Foreign Policy magazine.
Mr. Lieberthal says the "core message" of the pivot is this: "America is going to play a leadership role in Asia for decades to come." 
Even if the leadership in Beijing now sees relations with Washington as a zero-sum game, President Obama has emphasized that a strong relationship with China is "absolutely vital," saying "we welcome China's peaceful rise."
With the world's second-largest economy, China is now a bigger U.S. trading partner than Europe and is widely seen as crucial to an American economic recovery.
Asian nations are major holders of U.S. federal debt. According to the Congressional Research Service, China, Hong Kong, Japan and Taiwan alone have combined holdings of $2.5 trillion of federal debt, nearly 29 percent of the total.
While the pivot to the Pacific is so far mostly symbolic, the C.R.S. report says, "it is being seen by some in China in starker terms, as focused on dividing China from its neighbors and keeping China's military in check." 
If that divide-to-conquer view gains further currency in China, it could strengthen the hand of the Chinese military, "which has long been suspicious of U.S. intentions in the region," the report says.
China recently announced an 11.2 percent increase in its defense budget. 
 - essentially a retrofitted Soviet reject - has been undergoing blue-water trials in recent months, and while it's hardly the equal of any American carrier, it could serve Beijing well in the South China Sea, ferrying troops, supplies, helicopters and landing craft to the highly contested islands there.
The tiny islands, sitting in the middle of some of the world's most vital shipping lanes, are believed to lie amid a bonanza of oil and gas. 
"To Chinese officials, the South China Sea represents ," says the analyst Robert D. Kaplan, in a new essay for the Stratfor intelligence group.
"Of course, American diplomacy has been active on these matters for years, but U.S. diplomats would lack credibility if they were not backed by a robust military presence in the future. This is what the pivot is all about: The United States does not intend to desert maritime Asia in its hour of need."
An earlier version of this story misstated when the first group of U.S. marines arrived in Australia. They arrived on Tuesday, not Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (78%); TRENDS (77%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); POLITICS (65%) Darwin; Jeffrey Bleich; pivot; South China Sea; U.S. Marines; Obama, Barack; Defense and Military Forces; Economic Conditions and Trends; International Relations; Politics and Government; United States Defense and Military Forces; United States Economy; United States International Relations; Congressional Research Service; Foreign Policy (Magazine); United States Marine Corps; Australia; China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; United States; View From Asia

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (92%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (84%) Congressional Research Service; Foreign Policy (Magazine); United States Marine Corps

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (67%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NORTHERN TERRITORY, AUSTRALIA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (99%); CHINA (98%); AUSTRALIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%) Australia; China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; United States

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012



178 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: For $279,000, Terrafugia Transition Puts the Wind Beneath Your Wings

BYLINE: JERRY GARRETT


HIGHLIGHT: The federally certified personal aircraft can be yours for roughly the price of a Rolls-Royce Ghost. 

 BODY:
Introduced on Thursday, April 5: Terrafugia Transition.
What is it? A street-legal airplane. No, seriously.
Is it real? Yes, folks, your air-mobile is ready. Let's allow Chuck Berry to explain how this is supposed to work:
Now you can't catch me
Baby, you can't catch me
'Cause if you get too close
You know I'm gone like a cool breeze.
What they said: "The Terrafugia Transition is a street-legal airplane that can take off and land at 5,000 public airports," Anna Mracek Dietrich, Terrafugia's chief operating officer, said in an interview. "If you want to land and continue on, on the ground, the wings fold up in less than a minute. Then, it is legal to operate at highway speeds in all 50 states." Ms. Dietrich said the Transition has been approved for aeronautical and highway use by the Federal Aviation Administration and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. It actually passed simulated crash tests, and has a 5-m.p.h. bumper.
What they didn't say: Motorists, how cool would it be to never have to stop at another stinkin' red light? To have a car with a license plate and an F.A.A. tail number? To land at a gas station and fill 'er up with premium unleaded? To have a car with a gear shift lever that has positions for Forward, Neutral, Reverse and Propeller? Pilots, wouldn't you love a plane with a horn, rearview mirrors, turn signals (plus headlights, taillights, brake light and backup light), air bags and a full vehicle parachute?
What makes it tick? A normally aspirated Rotax 912 U.L.S. 4-cylinder, 1.2-liter aircraft engine. In the Terrafugia, it produces about 100 horsepower, Ms. Dietrich said, which would deliver a cruising speed of about 100 m.p.h. in the air, and highway speeds on the ground. Although not E.P.A.-rated for highway fuel economy, the Transition is capable of 35 miles per gallon in terrestrial navigation, Ms. Dietrich said. Airborne, it will travel about 450 miles on a tankful. 
How much, how soon? Within the next year, Terrafugia expects to begin deliveries of the Transition. The suggested retail price has increased about $50,000 from initial estimates, to $279,000 -- not because of unforeseen manufacturing expenses, but because there's no shortage of interest in it. Ms. Dietrich said more than 100 people are on a waiting list to take delivery from the Boston-area factory where it is to be built. 
How's it look? The Transition cannot be judged by standards normally applied to automotive design, but in most eyes it would look ungainly and awkward. But deploy those wings, pop in a CD of Mr. Berry wailing through "You Can't Catch Me" and it becomes a thing of beauty:
For a more in-depth description of the Transition check out this video shot by James Schembari, a member of the Automobiles staff, with Richard Gersh, vice president of business development for Terrafugia.

        
Honda Crosstour: Conceptual in Name Only
        
In New York, Hyundai Doubles Down on the Santa Fe
        
2013 Nissan Altima: Milking Plain Vanilla for Profit
        
Acura RLX: A Would-Be Flagship Awaits Its Berth
        
Via the Takeri, Mazda 6 Will Join the Kodo Klatsch

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CIVIL AVIATION (91%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (91%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (87%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (85%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AIRLINES (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); GAS STATIONS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (72%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (72%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (67%); LICENSES & PERMITS (65%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); EXECUTIVES (55%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (52%) n.h.t.s.a.; New York Auto Show; Terrafugia; Terrefugia Transition; Airlines and Airplanes; Automobiles; New York International Auto Show; Federal Aviation Administration; National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; Auto Shows; Motoring; New Cars

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (91%) Federal Aviation Administration; National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



179 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: Thursday Reading: Gene Mutations Linked to Autism Risk

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Gene mutations are linked to autism risk, ways to stop spam texts, living like a billionaire for a day and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:

        
Scientists link rare gene mutationsto autism risk. (National)
        
Census data shows recession's toll on suburban growth. (National)
        
Payoff for efficient carstakes years. (Business)
        
Americans cut backon drugs and doctor visits. (Business)
        
Apps to give home buyers an edge. (Business)
        
Fighting back against spam texts. (Business)
        
Cool food, with less waiting. (Home)
        
Nail polish goes beyond color. (Thursday Styles)
        
Living like a billionaire, for a day. (Dealbook)
        
Linking Facebook chat to other services. (Gadgetwise)
        
Upcycling thedog poo. (Green)
        
Do patients want more care or less? (Well)
        
When adoptive families fail. (Motherlode)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GENES & CHROMOSOMES (92%); AUTISM (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); CENSUS (86%); SUBURBS (85%) Today in Your Money

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



180 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
Bloomberg Businessweek: The aftermath of the Euro crisis: the long spud lines in Greece. In a nation with no economy, no jobs and fading hopes, young couples, families and pensioners queue for the basic food group: red-mesh 20-kilo sacks of potatoes. A new "potato movement" is linking farmers to consumers in the interest of mutual survival. -- Glenn Collins 
The New York Times: Two studies reveal that poultry on factory farms are routinely fed not only banned antibiotics but also caffeine, ingredients of Tylenol and Benadryl and even arsenic. "These studies don't mean that you should dump the contents of your refrigerator,'' Nicholas D. Kristof writes, "but they do raise serious questions about the food we eat and how we should shop.'' -- Eric Asimov 
: The first extra-virgin olive oils to undergo Department of Agriculture verification are hitting the market. The new logo doesn't use the term"extra-virgin," but the standards and lab testing are similar to the methods used in the European Union. -- Julia Moskin
: Thanksgiving has the N.F.L., New Year's has the bowl games and Easter has its own special scrimmage: lamb versus ham. -- Patrick Farrell
Bon Apptit: How they do Easter at Canal House ...
Gourmet Live: ... And the backstory on all those Jelly Belly flavors. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The New York Post: A former Navy warehouse in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, will serve as a sort of carrier deck for what the newspaper calls the world's largest rooftop garden -- hydroponically producing a million pounds of organic produce each year. -- Patrick Farrell
The Drinks Business: Green and Gold are on their way out. Enter Gold Label Reserve and Platinum. Johnnie Walker shakes up its range of blended whiskies. -- Eric Asimov
Tasting Table: The serious cocktail crowd is taking a shine to cola. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: The new ketchup? That's what Hidden Valley Foods is boasting on the label of a new ranch dressing called Hidden Valley for Everything. Thicker than the salad dressing, it aims to become "as ubiquitous as ketchup on restaurant tables and in consumers' kitchens," says one executive. -- Patrick Farrell
GQ: Ten things that Alain Ducasse must have in his life, from the music of a certain French pianist to a mortar and pestle. -- Jeff Gordinier 
So You Want to Be a Sommelier: In honor of the start of baseball season, Levi Dalton offers a play-by-play description of life on the dining room floor. -- Eric Asimov 
Nation's Restaurant News: The new menu is stripped down: four $6.50 burgers, fries, milkshakes. But there are so many new better-burger chains, they're running out of names for them. So, when Josiah Citrin, the chef and owner of Melisse in Santa Monica, Calif., established his planned national haute-casual burger chain in Maui, Hawaii, what did he call it? Sure Thing Burger. -- Glenn Collins 
Lottie and Doof: Remembering a grandmother, her marathon breakfasts and the love that went into a simple peeled orange ... 
Poetry Foundation: ... Which happens to remind us of this Ruth L. Schwartz poem about a tangerine. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: Hard on the heels on March's Tarragon Scare (weather-related shortages) comes the Vanilla Vacuum. Poor harvests and hoarding have driven up wholesale prices 20 percent in the last two months. Expect pricier ice cream this summer. -- Patrick Farrell

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (77%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); THANKSGIVING (77%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); FAST FOOD (77%); FACTORY FARMS (76%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (76%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (76%); POULTRY (73%); BASEBALL (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (68%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (63%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (60%); ANTIBIOTICS (55%)

COMPANY: VALLEY FOODS (SANTA BARBARA CALIFORNIA) (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5149 GROCERIES & RELATED PRODUCTS, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (78%); UNITED STATES (77%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



181 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Latitude)

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: No More Mr. Nice Guy

BYLINE: ANDREW FINKEL


HIGHLIGHT: In the last decade, Turkey has attempted to redefine its geopolitical role. It was an interesting experiment while it lasted. 

 BODY:
ISTANBUL - For much of the Cold War, Turkey was NATO's lonely sentinel, patrolling Europe's southern flank. It's not surprising that the thawing of that conflict left Turkey feeling somewhat abandoned. Its principal function - a strategic importance to its Western allies - had been devalued by the removal of the Soviet threat.
War in Iraq, tensions with Iran, Turkey's willingness to send peacekeepers to the Balkans and Afghanistan meant that Ankara has remained a large piece of the strategic puzzle. But in the last 10 years, under the current Justice and Development (AK) party government that came to power in 2002, Turkey attempted to further redefine its post-Cold War role. It was an interesting experiment while it lasted.
The guru of this transformation was the current foreign minister, Ahmet Davutoglu. Whereas Cold War Turkey thought of itself as an island of stability in a dangerous sea, Davutoglu's new motto was "zero problems with neighbors." A new kind of pragmatic realism was born.

The best way, Davutoglu declared, to deal with authoritarian regimes was to give them an incentive to reform. The new Turkey would rely not on military might but on its new-found economic clout. Upping the balance of trade with Iran, for example, would succeed where sanctions would fail in getting Tehran to resign its membership of the axis of evil.
Turkey saw itself as up to the job of regional Mr. Nice Guy for a host of reasons: it has a cultural affinity with fellow Muslim-majority nations, and its economy is the biggest in its region. And after refusing to allow the United States to invade Iraq through its territory in 2003, Turkey demonstrated that it was no longer in Washington's thrall.
Best of all, "zero problems" was popular with Turkish voters who saw it as a restoration of the country's independence and prestige.
But to Washington, the policy smacked of appeasement; it meant Ankara would turn a blind eye to Damascus or Tehran while failing to mend fences with Armenia (where the United States had a pressing interest in reconciliation). We have WikiLeaks to thank for a former American ambassador's faint praise for Davutoglu's strategy, describing it as "Rolls Royce ambitions but Rover resources."
The net positive results of Turkey's new approach didn't last. Pragmatism turned out not to be so pragmatic after all.
Turkey's relations with Israel eventually deteriorated, those with Cyprus never improved, and there was a falling out with the United States in 2010 when Washington pushed ahead with sanctions against Iran while Turkey and Brazil were trying to negotiate a compromise over Tehran's nuclear-fuel enrichment program.
The real blow to "zero problems," however, came when the Arab Spring began to turn into a prolonged season of attrition. In the eyes of the West, Turkish pragmatism resembled support for regimes that oppressed their own people.
Ankara ignored accusations of ballot rigging to be among the first to congratulate President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran for his re-election victory in 2009. Turkey only reluctantly abandoned support for the Qaddafi regime when it became clear the international community was determined to see him go. Increased tensions with the West over Ankara's attempts to be a friendly neighbor were not part of the plan.
Syria's troubles have been particularly vexing for Turkey's neighborhood relations. Ankara's rapprochement with President Bashar al-Assad (which began in earnest in 2004) had once been the best example of the success of its "zero problems" policy. Now, Turkey spearheads the call for regime change, even denigrating Kofi Annan's joint U.N.-Arab League plan for a settlement. This, in turn brings, Turkey into conflict with Tehran, which has no desire to see Assad retire.
"Zero problems" is on its last leg. And things seem just like the old days. Even relations with the United States have improved.
If Davutoglu is looking for a new catchphrase he could do worse than borrow from another pragmatist, Harold Macmillan. When asked what might derail his government's policy, the British prime minister is reputed to have replied "Events, dear boy. Events."

        
A Game of Turkey
        
The Not-So-Beautiful Game
        
Taking on Saakashvili
        
Press-ganging the Turkish Media
        
Trojan Voting

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (86%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (51%) Ahmet Davutoglu; Europe; International Relations; Justice and Development Party; NATO; politics and government; Turkey; Davutoglu, Ahmet; Defense and Military Forces; Politics and Government; Justice and Development Party (Turkey); North Atlantic Treaty Organization

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%) Justice and Development Party (Turkey); North Atlantic Treaty Organization

PERSON: Davutoglu, Ahmet

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (91%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (91%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); TURKEY (94%); EUROPE (93%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN (90%); SYRIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ARMENIA (79%); CYPRUS (79%) Turkey

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



182 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: In AMG's Go-Fast Machines, Start-Stop Gains Ground

BYLINE: JIM MOTAVALLI


HIGHLIGHT: Mercedes-Benz has equipped nearly all of the vehicles from its in-house tuning division with fuel-saving engine-cutoff systems. 

 BODY:
Mercedes-Benz is bullish on relatively low-cost stop-start systems, which deactivate the engine at idle to save fuel, but the German brand's partiality is manifesting itself in an unlikely place.
Start-stop is standard equipment on nearly every vehicle from AMG, Mercedes's in-house tuning division, according to William Vetter, assistant product manager at AMG.
"We introduced the technology on AMG vehicles two years ago," Mr. Vetter, sad. "Direct-injection engines allow us to really maximize the benefit. You can squirt fuel for just one piston and get the engine to start itself without always engaging the starter."
The technology's appeal is such that Mercedes products outside of the high-performance realm are benefiting, too. "We see start-stop coming to every model in the future, and it will be phased in to most of our standard vehicles in 2012," Bernie Glaser, the recently appointed vice president of marketing for Mercedes-Benz USA, said. "I myself am currently driving a car equipped with it." Start-stop is on the 2012 and 2013 AMG E, CLS, CL, S, SL and SLK. The S400 Hybrid also has start-stop.
Even customers seduced by straight-line performance and monstrous torque are interested in the benefits of start-stop, according to Mr. Vetter. "You wouldn't think that luxury buyers are interested in fuel economy, but many are," he said. "They appreciate that these are not only incredibly powerful cars, but also very technologically advanced. AMG is the test bed for a lot of our innovations."
Some changes to AMG models allow improved performance and better fuel economy. On the E63 AMG, Mr. Vetter said that switching to a smaller-displacement twin-turbo V-8 with start-stop and an efficient power-steering setup yielded gains in torque and horsepower, as well as a 30-percent improvement in fuel efficiency. "It allowed us to beat the gas-guzzler tax," he said.
Mercedes is also moving forward with hybrid technology, Mr. Glaser said, including an E-Class sedan with a mild hybrid system, the E400 Hybrid, scheduled to arrive in the United States in August. The car, powered by a 3.5-liter direct-injected engine, will be able to shut off its engine when coasting, Mr. Glaser said.

        
2013 SL65 AMG Muscles In on SLS AMG Roadster
        
BMW Releases Details on M6 Coupe and Convertible
        
Agency Upgrades Investigation of 387,000 Liberty S.U.V.'s for Inadvertent Air-Bag Deployments
        
Mercedes E300 BlueTec Hybrid: A Star German Midfielder, On Loan to Detroit
        
Mercedes-Benz C63 AMG Coupe Pours on the Ponies

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (79%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (79%); SEDANS (79%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); LUXURY GOODS (72%) AMG; E-Class; Fuel Efficiency; hybrid; Mercedes-Benz; New York Auto Show; SL65 AMG; start-stop; Automobiles; New York International Auto Show; Auto Shows; New Cars

COMPANY: MERCEDES-BENZ USA INC (59%)

ORGANIZATION: Mercedes-Benz

INDUSTRY: NAICS423120 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (59%); NAICS423110 AUTOMOBILE & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (59%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (59%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



183 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: 2013 Subaru XV Crosstrek Will See Your Impreza and Raise It 9 Inches

BYLINE: JONATHAN SCHULTZ


HIGHLIGHT: The Impreza-based crossover matches the ground clearance of the larger Outback. 

 BODY:
Shown on Thursday, April 5: 2013 Subaru XV Crosstrek.
What is it? The XV is about as quirky a vehicle as we can expect in this day and age from Subaru, an automaker that once let its freak flag fly unfettered.
Is it real? Having been shown already at Japanese and European auto salons within the last year, the XV was not new to most eyes at the Javits Center, but this was the first showing of the version bound for North America.
What they said: "As market tastes for crossovers evolved around the world, we saw a gap," Tom Doll, executive vice president of Subaru of America, said at the car's introduction. "The XV is clearly our most design-oriented crossover to date." Mr. Doll identified "young urban buyers" as the XV's target customers. But with nearly nine inches of ground clearance, equal to that of the larger Outback, the XV could wear a canoe on its roof without effecting the faux-ruggedness of a Brooklyn woodsman.
What they didn't say: Though Mr. Doll expected sales of 320,000 Subaru vehicles in the United States this year, up from 266,000 in 2011, he did not discuss what the XV's contribution to that goal might be.
What makes it tick? The same 148-horsepower boxer 2-liter 4-cylinder engine found on the Impreza on which the XV is based. Also sourced from the Impreza are the XV's 5-speed manual or continuously variable automatic transmissions. Subaru estimates combined fuel economy of 33 miles a gallon.
How much, how soon? Showrooms will take delivery this fall of the all-wheel-drive crossover, but pricing was not announced. For comparison's sake, the Impreza Sport sells in the low $20,000 range.
How's it look? The Brats, XTs, SVXs and Bajas of yore are not even a glint in the XV's crossbar grille. Aside from the added ground clearance and matte-black cladding running over wheel wells and side skirts, little would distinguish the XV from an Impreza Sport. For quirky all-wheel-drive kicks, young urban buyers might also consider the Nissan Juke, though they'd probably rather be seen driving a vintage Toyota Land Cruiser.

        
2012 Subaru Impreza Steps Up Refinement, Efficiency
        
Wheelies: The Fraternal Twin Edition
        
With Concepts in Manhattan, Chevrolet Tries to Ignite Design Students' Interest
        
Jaguar F-Type Revealed, Vaguely, in New York
        
For Just Over $100, Seat Time in a Supercar

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (90%); SPORTS CARS (86%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (75%) New York Auto Show; Outback; Subaru Impreza; XV Crosstrek; Automobiles; New York International Auto Show; Subaru; Auto Shows; New Cars

ORGANIZATION: Subaru

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2012



184 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Who (Else) Wants to Be a Billionaire?

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: DealBook readers had some interesting comments on the merits of an experiment in living the lifestyle of the ultrarich for a day. 

 BODY:
To answer some of the most-asked questions I've received about my article on living like a billionaire for a day: yes, my editors are very cool for approving my pitch; no, I didn't bankrupt The Times when I filed my expenses; and yes, I did get to keep the suit. (I paid for it myself, because I needed a new one anyway. Now I just have to find other, less rarefied places to wear it.)
Although Gawker was less than impressed with my efforts to live like a mogul, DealBook commenters had varied feelings about the merits of my experiment.
Kathleen from Oakland wondered if the billionaire lifestyle was overhyped:
If being rich is so great, why are none of them (so it seems) ever content with what they have and thus always desire more? Such ever-grasping comes at a cost: perpetual dissatisfaction. 
Add in the concurrent fear of losing what they do have and it seems that all their much-vaunted perks are just a kind of "medication" to help them exist with their fear and their dissatisfaction, to assure them that they are indeed worthy beings.
JW from Palo Alto agreed that billionaire perks are minor, except for one small detail:
Most of the billionaire's day might be a bit much for me -- sometimes I simply crave a grapefruit or plain green salad -- but I could certainly go for the private jet.
"yomain" in New York City differentiated between my temporary version of wealth and real wealth.
The author has lived the lifestyle of "flashy" wealth. There are also many modest multimillionaires who live frugally and whom you'd never pick out as wealthy. Having wealth is a security hedge for them that helps them sleep better at night, but otherwise they live their lives more or less the same as if they didn't have all of the money.
Teresa from New York took exception to a line the billionaire told me: "Somebody's got to live this life. God decided it should be me."
"Someone had to live like this and God decided it should be him?" Apparently great wealth can also make you delusional.
While researching and planning my day of upper-crust living, I got a lot of tips for what to include. (The most popular suggestions? Lunch at the Four Seasons and a trip to Larry Flynt's Hustler Club -- one of which I couldn't do for scheduling reasons, and the other of which I couldn't do because I like my job.) 
Curious what others might do if given the chance to live like a billionaire, I posed the question on Twitter. Readers responded:
@kevinroose Film music video w/ Pitbull, visit Trump's tailor, private dinner @ Per Se, NBA crtside, then Vegas w/ P.Diddy, then golf @ Cabo
- Luis Armendariz (@luisarmendariz)5 Apr 12
@kevinroose buy firetruck, add spinners, blast "Watch the Throne"; visit space with George Clooney; Bulls game, courtside, sunglasses.
- Arts&Economics (@FelipeGCabrera)5 Apr 12
@kevinroose @reply @dealbook Spend all day writing out checks to food banks, homeless shelters and other charities
- LLS (@lls404)5 Apr 12
@kevinroose Invest $900M in the morning, withdraw it in the evening, and keep the 12 hours of interest.
- Megan McCarthy (@Megan)5 Apr 12
And one commenter even proposed a sequel:
@kevinroose @dealbook follow up article suggestion. get sultan of brunei to be your mentor.
- Dustin (@dustineichler)5 Apr 12
What do you say, Your Royal Highness? My place at 6 a.m. tomorrow?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); LUXURY GOODS (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); HEDGE FUNDS (74%); WRITERS (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (64%) billionaires; luxury goods; wealth; High Net Worth Individuals; Luxury Goods; Private Aircraft; Financial Services; Hedge Funds; Investment Banking; Special Section Spring 2012

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012



185 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Is There a Fiscal Crisis in the United States?

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Reducing the nation's debt relative to gross domestic product requires steps to increase employment and revenue. Cutting taxes, tough talk and posturing will not solve the problem, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
There are two competing narratives about the federal government budget in the political mainstream today. 
The first is that we are, or soon will be, in crisis, because of runaway government spending. To avoid this crisis, we should cut spending by a great deal and as soon as possible. 
The second view is that all talk of a fiscal crisis is essentially a hoax; we have a jobs crisis, and we should spend as much as necessary to get us out of the deep recession. From this perspective, we should fix the budget once the economy is back on an even keel.
Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the House Budget Committee, is very much in the first camp, as seen in his proposed budget, which passed the House last week. President Obama is substantially in the second camp, as he demonstrated with his strong anti-Ryan remarks in a speech on Tuesday. 
Both views are dangerous, in very different ways.

The raw numbers on the total level of federal government debt would seem, at first glance, to favor the "sky is falling" view. Total federal government debt held by the public stood at $10,883,217,233,063.87 at the end of April 2 (the Treasury helpfully provides this calculation "to the penny" on a daily basis). 
The latest available estimate of the total population of the United States, which is calculated monthly by the Census Bureau, is 313,358,751 (at the end of February). This number is "resident population plus armed forces overseas" from the bureau's "monthly population estimates"). So the debt is just under $35,000 a person.
Some of this debt we owe to ourselves, i.e., American citizens own the debt of the American government. But about half of our federal government debt is owned by foreigners. (For the most authoritative cross-country data, see Statistical Table 9 of the International Monetary Fund's Fiscal Monitor, published in September 2011, second to last column, under the heading of "Nonresident holding of marketable central government debt, 2010.") 
Imagine if we had to all pitch in and pay down that debt owed to foreigners over the next 12 months -- $70,000 per family of four. Who could afford to do that?
But we do not have to pay down the debt. Investors around the world have chosen to buy United States government debt, and they continue to regard it as a "safe asset" despite the continuing low level of interest rates. Investors will hold the debt of a well-run company or government as long as they expect to receive interest payments - a very long time.
As a country, what we need to do is to keep the increase in this debt under control, while ensuring that the economy continues to grow. It is debt relative to G.D.P. (i.e., relative to the total size of the economy) that matters.
Debt has surged, relative to G.D.P., six times in American history, during the War of Independence, the War of 1812, the Civil War, World War I, World War II and since 2000. In the first five instances, debt rose as the government scrambled to raise resources to pay for a war effort. After each of those wars, debt was steadily reduced relative to the size of the economy - over decades, not over months or even years.
The debt surge since 2000 is different - a point that James Kwak and I explain in detail in our book, published this week. To be sure, we have the two expensive wars, in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
But much more of the increase in the deficit was because of tax cuts under George W. Bush, Medicare Part D (which expanded coverage for prescription medicines) and - most of all - the financial crisis that brought down the economy and sharply reduced tax revenue starting in September 2008. 
Our modern debt surge is much more about declining federal government revenue than it is about runaway spending. If you believe strongly that our fiscal issues are primarily about "runaway spending," please read our book.
The smart approach is to begin the long and not-so-nice work of controlling deficits while allowing the economy to grow.
The kind of austerity now being experienced in Europe is absolutely not what is called for in the United States. We have time and space for a fiscal adjustment, particularly because the world remains favorably inclined to buy United States government debt, and this holds down our long-term interest rates.
But there is no reason to be complacent. Market sentiment can turn quickly. There is no way of knowing when the world could turn in such a way that international investors would want a higher yield in return for holding United States government debt. We need to reduce our vulnerability to a sharp increase in long-term interest rates. 
How can the United States signal that we can deal with the deficit without actually doing too much too soon? The answer is simple. Do not extend any of the Bush-era tax cuts, which expire at the end of this year. That would represent a major step in the direction of stabilizing debt relative to G.D.P. 
President Obama has proposed that the tax cuts not be extended for people who make more than $250,000 a year. But that high threshold would not raise enough revenue to alter the deficit in any significant way. To really affect the sustainability of the debt, we need the tax cuts to expire for everyone - an unpopular message, to be sure.
If the economy remains weak, not extending the Bush tax cuts could be combined with a temporary cut in the payroll tax, preferably tied to employment relative to total population. We have the ability to put in place exactly that kind of maneuver.
There is no need for panic over our fiscal situation. Nor is tough talk enough. We need to start down the path of stabilizing debt relative to G.D.P.

        
The Limits of American Exceptionalism
        
Republicans and Fiscal Responsibility
        
Will the United States Default?
        
Fanning the Flames of Class Warfare
        
The Republican Idea of Tax Reform

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX LAW (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); CENSUS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (65%); INTEREST RATES (62%); STATISTICS (61%) austerity; budget deficit; Daily Economist; fiscal policy; Interest Rates; politics; Simon Johnson; tax cuts; Ryan, Paul D Jr; United States Economy; House of Representatives; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (54%) House of Representatives

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Ryan, Paul D Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



186 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: Opinion Report: Government Passivity

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page. 

 BODY:
The starting five of the University of Kentucky's national champion team - a mix of sophomores and freshmen - will likely enter the professional basketball ranks years shy of a diploma.
The White House has not yet reviewed E.P.A. rules that would force petroleum refiners to reduce the amount of sulfur in gasoline by two-thirds.
Mitt Romney's party has rewarded him for advocating government passivity in the face of economic struggle. A larger electorate is likely to be far more skeptical.
There are a growing number of challengers to the giant pharmacy benefit managers, known as P.B.M.'s, including big insurance plans and smaller stand-alone companies.

        
Opinion Report: America's No. 1 Foe
        
Opinion Report: Supreme Health
        
Opinion Report: Corporate Taxes
        
Opinion Report: Susan G. Komen and Planned Parenthood
        
Opinion Report: Power Plant Emissions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); BASKETBALL (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (87%); EMISSIONS (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (82%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (71%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (53%) Environmental Regulations; Romney, Mitt; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; University of Kentucky

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (93%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (56%) University of Kentucky

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



187 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2097 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
Wall Street Examines Fine Print in a Bill for Start-Ups | Wall Street is examining whether it will benefit from a little-known section of a broad new law that President Obama is expected to sign on Thursday.
Provisions tucked into the so-called JOBS Act will roll back some major securities regulations and parts of a landmark legal settlement struck almost a decade ago. That 2003 settlement built a Chinese wall between Wall Street research analysts and investment bankers, an effort to prevent analysts from improperly promoting stocks to help their firms drum up business from corporate clients.
Under the new legislation, some of those restrictions would be eased when it comes to smaller companies, so-called emerging-growth companies.
Wall Street senses an opportunity. Davis Polk, a large law firm that caters to Wall Street, wrote in a recent note to clients that the JOBS Act represented "the most significant legislative loosening in memory of restrictions around the I.P.O. process and public company reporting obligations." DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
For Gates-Like Wealth, Look Beyond Wall Street | The chances of up-and-coming financiers breaking into the billionaires' club are slim, but that's nothing new: Wall Street has rarely generated the wealthiest of the wealthiest, Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in his DealBook column. DealBook 
Living Like a Billionaire, if Only for a Day | A middle-class writer for The Times found that tasting great wealth even temporarily leaves a permanent impression. DealBook 
Bernanke's Wall St. Lunch | Ben S. Bernanke lunched at the New York Fed last week with the heads of JPMorgan Chase, Barclays, Credit Suisse, BlackRock, Bank of America and the Blackstone Group, Fortune reports, citing unidentified people. FORTUNE
Tutu on Wealth | "It is a misconception that one has to be poor to be spiritual, and that hard work should not be rewarded," the former archbishop of Cape Town writes in a co-authored column in The Financial Times. FINANCIAL TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Rothschilds to Combine French and British Assets | The move is meant to increase capital reserves and operational efficiency while maintaining control of a financial institution that dates back to the 18th century. DealBook 
Icahn Urges Amylin to Sell | Carl C. Icahn, who owns almost 10 percent of Amylin Pharmaceuticals, said in a letter that the board "should pursue a sale of the company now," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Graphics: Mergers and Acquisitions, Top Financial and Legal Advisers | In the first quarter of 2012, mergers and acquisition activity was down 34 percent worldwide to $481 billion. The United States share was $146 billion. Goldman Sachs and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer were the top financial and legal advisers. DealBook 
Ackman's Influence on Burger King's Future | How is Burger King set to go public again, roughly a year and a half after it was taken private in a $3.3 billion leveraged buyout? The answer, in large part: the hedge fund manager William A. Ackman. DealBook 
Yahoo Shareholders Wait for More Than Cuts | The Internet company said on Wednesday it would lay off 2,000 employees and realize $375 million of annualized savings, but shareholders have been pushing for the company to identify new ways to grow, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Covidien to Buy Oridion Systems for $300 Million | A subsidiary of Covidien, the medical device maker, is paying cash for Oridion, which is based in Israel, Reuters reports. REUTERS
IBM in Deal With Brazilian Billionaire | IBM is set to oversee information technology for the EBX Group, the company run by the billionaire Eike Batista, and is buying a 20 percent stake in SIX Automacao, an EBX subsidiary, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Massachusetts Approves a Utility Deal | The state's regulators gave a green light to a $5 billion deal by Northeast Utilities, which is based on Hartford, Conn., to purchase NStar, based in Boston, the Associated Press reports. ASSOCIATED PRESS
Delta's Interest in an Oil Refinery Baffles Analysts | It emerged this week that Delta Air Lines was a possible buyer for a refinery that ConocoPhillips is looking to sell, The New York Times reports. "It's a little like a rabbi buying a church," said Tom Kloza, the publisher and chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service. NEW YORK TIMES
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Dimon Earns $23 Million for 2011 | Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase made more last year than the bosses of Wells Fargo, Citigroup or Bank of America, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Dimon Takes Aim at Financial Regulation | In his annual letter to shareholders, Jamie Dimon said government officials "made the recovery worse than it otherwise would have been." He continued, "We have hundreds of rules, many of which are uncoordinated and inconsistent with each other," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Goldman's Board Gets a Gentler Face | James J. Schiro, the new "lead" director on the board of Goldman Sachs, has shown a penchant for introspection that is unusual in his industry, The Wall Street Journal writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
A Rebound in Private Banking at UBS | Clients of the Swiss bank's investment products and services division are doing "significantly" more fixed-income transactions than last year, according to William Kennedy, the unit's head, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
BlackRock and Pimco Bet on Chinese Currency | The two asset managers are betting that China's currency will appreciate as much as 3 percent this year, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Asian Banks Consider New Types of Bonds | Banks in the region are looking for ways to get access to dollars, and are preparing to issue securities like covered bonds, Reuters reports. REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Water Park Operator Gets Rival Offer | Great Wolf Resorts said KSL Capital Partners had made an offer that tops the deal with Apollo Global Management, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Looking for the Next Generation in Private Equity | A handful of men who reign over the private equity industry are now in their 60s, but they have set forth no clear succession plans. DealBook 
Blackstone Is Said to Buy Warehouses | The Blackstone Group has agreed to buy warehouses in the United States from the Dexus Property Group for about $800 million, Bloomberg News reports, citing an unidentified person with knowledge of the deal. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Apollo and Riverstone to Back Energy Investor | Apollo Global Management and Riverstone Holdings said they would invest up to $600 million in Talos Energy, which will scout for energy opportunities around the Gulf of Mexico, Reuters reports. REUTERS
RRJ Capital Said to Seek $4 Billion for Asian Fund | The move comes as CDH Investments, based in Beijing, aims to raise $2 billion for a fund focused on China, and K.K.R. and TPG Capital also look to start new funds for Asia, Bloomberg News reports, citing unidentified potential investors. BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Paulson Has a Mixed Quarter | John A. Paulson oversaw a percent 5 gain in his credit opportunities fund during the first quarter, but the performance of other funds was less robust: the advantage plus fund is down 2 percent this year, and the gold fund is down 6.3 percent, The Financial Times reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the numbers. FINANCIAL TIMES
Some Hedge Funds Post a Strong Quarter | Third Point Partners, run by Daniel S. Loeb, had a 7.1 percent gain in the first quarter, according to an unidentified person familiar with the numbers, Reuters reports, while David Einhorn's Greenlight Capital was said to have gained 6.9 percent. On average, hedge funds were up 2.3 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, meanwhile, gained 12 percent. REUTERS
Family Investment Funds Go Hunting for Wall St. Expertise | Family offices, which manage the money of the very wealthy, are now looking to outbid Wall Street for the people who run high-powered investment funds. DealBook 
Falcone May Seek Bankruptcy for LightSquared | Philip A. Falcone said he was "seriously considering" bankruptcy protection, among other options, for his embattled wireless company, Reuters reports. REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Chinese News Site to Start Roadshow | People's Daily Online, the Web site of the Communist Party's newspaper in China, is starting its initial offering roadshow on Friday, with the goal of raising about $84 million, MarketWatch reports. MARKETWATCH
Facebook Seeks Dismissal of Lawsuit | Facebook wants to end the lawsuit by Paul Ceglia, who claims he is entitled to half of Mark Zuckerberg's holdings in the company, before it goes to trial, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
At Groupon, the 'Sleaze' Was Legal | Even if Groupon knew about its accounting issues before its I.P.O., it would not have had to disclose them, Jonathan Weil writes in a column in Bloomberg News. "Sandbagging I.P.O. investors in this manner is perfectly legal, it turns out," Mr. Weil says. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Delay for I.P.O. of Coal Trading Firm in Poland | The initial public offering of Weglokoks, a Polish coal trading firm, may happen early next year rather than late this year, a Polish official said in a local newspaper, Reuters reports. REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Heirs to Old Money Plunge Into Tech | Fresh from college and graduate schools, the children of some prominent dynasties are taking a different path, spurning their legacies in retailing, real estate and finance for a future in technology. DealBook 
Head of H.P. Labs Said to Depart | Prith Banerjee, who has run the research and development group at Hewlett-Packard for five years, is leaving the company this month, AllThingsD reports, citing an internal memo. ALLTHINGSD
Food Entrepreneurs Aim to Build Supply Chains | Felix Salmon, the Reuters blogger, writes in New York magazine that entrepreneurs in the food business are "creating vertically integrated concerns that span the globe from farmer to consumer." NEW YORK
A Silicon Valley Reality Show | Randi Zuckerberg, sister of Mark Zuckerberg, is producing "Silicon Valley" for Bravo, AllThingsD reports. ALLTHINGSD
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
New York Fed May Sell More of Its A.I.G. Assets | The Federal Reserve Bank of New York said on Wednesday that it was considering selling pieces of a final special entity created to hold assets once owned by the American International Group. DealBook 
CME Moves to Strengthen Oversight | As part of its response to MF Global's collapse, the CME Group said it would require futures firms to submit daily reports about client funds, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Fed's Plan Puts Investors on Edge | The stock market had one of its worst performances of the year on Wednesday, as investors digested news that the Federal Reserve seemed unlikely to commit to more bold moves to stimulate the economy, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
New Evidence in Homeowner Insurance Investigation | Benjamin M. Lawsky, New York's chief financial regulator, is issuing new subpoenas to insurers as part of the investigation into so-called force-placed insurance, after finding new evidence that customers were overcharged, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the situation. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Regions Financial Repays Bailout | The bank bought back preferred stock to exit the government's $3.5 billion bailout, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Apple Is Said to Hold Out in Settlement Talks | Apple and two publishers seem reluctant to settle a government investigation into potential price-fixing of e-books, but the positions could change, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Trustee Can Pursue More Claims Against Madoff Family | A judge said Irving H. Picard, the trustee for victims of Bernard L. Madoff's huge Ponzi scheme, can pursue claims against the wives of Mr. Madoff's sons, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Merrill Loses a Compensation Ruling | A Financial Industry Regulatory Authority panel found that Merrill Lynch wrongfully denied compensation to two brokers, ordering the firm to pay more than $10 million, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MERGERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); MAJOR UK LAW FIRMS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); LAWYERS (74%); WRITERS (68%); RELIGION (62%); SECURITIES LAW (57%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (81%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (53%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BX (NYSE) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); BEN BERNANKE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



188 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Definition

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:
Whether Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, the architect of the Republican spending plan, is an ally or an enemy depends on who is defining him. Mark Landler writes that while Mitt Romney embraces Mr. Ryan and his budget on the campaign trail, President Obama is trying to portray the alliance between the two Republicans as a dangerous partnership that would deepen America's fiscal woes.
If the Supreme Court overturns the health care overhaul, Democrats might adopt Republicans' well-worn tactic of campaigning against the Supreme Court to nudge likely Democratic voters to the polls, Jackie Calmes writes. She writes that the sense that Democrats would use the tactic was heightened by Mr. Obama's comments this week and recent Supreme Court decisions that riled Democrats.
Despite defections among his conservative base and calls from influential members of the Republican party to drop out of the race for the presidential nomination, Rick Santorum sees a path to victory--albeit long, steep and pockmarked, Trip Gabriel writes. Despite his campaign's vision of breaking even with the Romney campaign by May, strategists observing the contest doubt that Mr. Santorum will even be able to deprive Mr. Romney of the majority of delegates he needs to secure the nomination.
A federal appeals court in Boston is considering whether to uphold a lower court's ruling that the Defense of Marriage Act is unconstitutional because it forces states that permit same-sex marriage to discriminate against those couples, Abby Goodnough writes. The case is the first time a federal appeals court has considered a challenge to the 1996 law, after Congress appealed the lower court's ruling.
Around the Web:
When Rick Santorum returns to Pennsylvania to campaign for the presidential nomination ahead of the state's April 24 primary, he will encounter a state far different from the one he represented in the Senate, and one that closely resembles the states he has lost to Mitt Romney, who is chipping away at Mr. Santorum's lead there, according to the Wall Street Journal.
Christian evangelicals are quietly considering whether and when to withdraw support for Mr. Santorum's campaign, as Mitt Romney racks up primary wins in critical states and holds an edge in the April 24 primaries in the Northeast, Politico reports.
Two weeks after winning his party's nomination, Representative Timothy Johnson, a Republican from Illinois who is in his sixth term, will not seek re-election this year, the Washington Post reports. Party officials must choose a replacement to run in November against the eventual Democratic nominee.
Happening in Washington:
Economic data expected to be released Thursday include weekly unemployment claims at 8:30 a.m., followed by weekly mortgage rates at 10.
Also at 10, the Japanese ambassador to the United States and military officials from Japan and the United States will mark the centennial Cherry Blossom Festival by planting cherry trees at joint Army and Navy base in southeast Washington, D.C.
At 11:30 a.m, Vice President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. will meet with Prime Minister Hashim Thaci of Kosovo at the White House. At noon, Mr. Biden will have lunch with Mr. Obama.
At 2 p.m., President Obama is expected to sign the JOBS Act.

        
The Early Word: Illinois
        
The Early Word: Optimism
        
The Early Word: Strategy
        
The Early Word: Benefits
        
The Weekend Word: (Not) According to Plan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); MARRIAGE (69%); MARRIAGE LAW (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (64%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (62%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (60%); RELIGION (60%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (56%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) Presidential Election of 2012; The Early Word; The Caucus

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); RICK SANTORUM (89%); BARACK OBAMA (68%); TIM JOHNSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



189 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Energy Dept. to Revitalize A Loan Guarantee Program

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Six months after the expiration of a federal loan guarantee program that backed $16 billion in loans to solar, wind and geothermal energy projects, the Energy Department has decided to offer a smaller set of similar guarantees by tapping another pot of money appropriated by Congress last year. 
The department said Thursday that it had sent letters to potentially eligible companies inviting them to apply for the new money.
Under the other program, which was passed as part of the 2009 stimulus legislation, about three dozen companies that had applied for loan guarantees were told that they would not receive guarantees because the department had been unable to finish reviewing their applications before the program expired on Sept. 30, 2011.
Now, the department is saying that the companies can reapply under a loan guarantee program established under the Energy Policy Act of 2005 that is still in force.
Usually, applicants under the 2005 program have to pay a fee upfront, called a credit subsidy, to compensate the government for the risk it runs by guaranteeing such a loan. Those fees can be costly, and few companies have applied. But the Energy Department said on Thursday that it had $170 million, approved under the budget deal of April 2011, that it would use to pay all or part of those subsidies.
That would make the 2005 program more like the loan guarantee program financed by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, in which the government paid the subsidy. The solar module maker Solyndra borrowed $527 million under that program before it went bankrupt, prompting several government investigations.
It was unclear how much in loans the department could guarantee with the new money. The size of the subsidy depends on the government's assessment of the risk. The government could also decide to pay only a portion of the credit subsidy.
Based on previous loan guarantees, however, the volume of loans is likely to run at least into the hundreds of millions of dollars.
Among the applicants whose loan guarantees were not completed before the clock ran out on the 2009 program was First Solar, which had sought a $1.93 billion loan; the company is still facing financing problems. Another company whose application was not approved by the deadline was SolarCity, but that company said it had found private financing and withdrawn its application.
Republicans have been trying for months to show that the Energy Department was negligent when it lent money to Solyndra, or that the choice of Solyndra was influenced by politics.
On Thursday, a spokesman for Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, who is the ranking Republican on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, raised no immediate objections to the new round of loans but said Republicans were watching the program.
''We're always concerned when we're using taxpayer money to pay for the credit subsidy, but this is money that's already been appropriated,'' the spokesman, Robert Dillon, said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); APPROVALS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%)

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (92%); SOLARCITY CORP (58%)

TICKER: SCTY (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%)

PERSON: LISA MURKOWSKI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012



190 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: ATM

BYLINE: By ANDY WEBSTER

 BODY:
''ATM'' is as compact a debut feature for its director, David Brooks, as you could imagine, confined pretty much to a killer's lair, an office, a party room, two cars and a small, free-standing banking center. And yet it generates a taut frisson within its spare 90 minutes. 
David (Brian Geraghty), a broker, has informed a client over the phone that his wayward investments have cost the man his 401(k). David feels terrible about it, but his selfish, caustic colleague Corey (Josh Peck) urges him to attend the company Christmas party (be merry!) and forget his trouble.
At the celebration David spies Emily (Alice Eve), an employee he once coveted who is now leaving for another job. It's his last chance, and he offers her a lift home. She agrees, but Corey demands one too. David grudgingly accedes.
And off they drive in the freezing weather, until Corey requests that they pull up to the banking center. After stepping inside, they witness a shadowy, parka-clad figure stabbing someone in the parking lot. Now they're trapped, as the killer descends upon their cramped quarters.
Mr. Brooks capitalizes on antiseptic, fluorescent interiors, while the score, by David Buckley, nicely accents stress points. Mr. Geraghty (''The Hurt Locker'') exudes understated compassion; Mr. Peck (a Nickelodeon alumnus more recently of ''The Wackness'') has become a remarkable character actor. Only Emily seems undefined, the script's fault, not Ms. Eve's.
As for the killer, his motivations remain unclear. Maybe. His quarry, after all, is a group of recession-era financiers. He's merely hunting in their native habitat.
''ATM'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) for language and fairly ungraphic violence.
Opens on Friday in Manhattan. Directed by David Brooks 1 hour 30 minutes

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Brian Geraghty, Alice Eve and Josh Peck in ''ATM,'' David Brooks's debut feature, set in a banking center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IFC MIDNIGHT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CHRISTMAS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); US 401K PLANS (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (69%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

TITLE: ATM (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012



191 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: On the Waterfront

BYLINE: By ROBERT LAVALVA, PAUL GREENBERG and DAVE PASTERNACK. 
Robert LaValva, Paul Greenberg and Dave Pasternack are, respectively, the founder of the New Amsterdam Market, the author of ''Four Fish'' and the chef and a co-creator of the restaurants Esca and Il Pesce.

 BODY:
LAST December something strange took place at the abandoned Fulton Fish Market on South Street: Fishermen came and sold fish.
On what would turn out to be the coldest day of the winter, a dozen-odd mongers trundled down to the Tin Building in their beat-up vans and pickups. They wrote the day's prices on chalkboards, stacked their wares on ice in wooden crates and, when throngs of shoppers appeared, they managed to sell quite a bit of porgy, pollock, flounder, tilefish, monkfish, clams, crabs and oysters -- everything that to this day still swims in New York State's bountiful waters. In a bid for the market's freshest fish, live, Bronx-farmed tilapia were also on offer.
The Fulton Fish Market, located on the southeast side of Manhattan, is a fixture in New York lore, even though the formal operation moved to the Bronx seven years ago. Sadly, despite clear evidence that New Yorkers are willing to return -- in droves, even in freezing weather -- Fulton's historic buildings are being left to rot even as the rest of the adjacent waterfront is about to get a slick, commercialized makeover. 
December's one-day ''Gathering of Fisheries'' was staged by New Amsterdam Market, an economic development corporation founded in 2005 to promote the preservation of the two empty Fulton Fish Market buildings and their revival as a regional food distribution center, cultural destination and vital anchor to the South Street Seaport historic district.
The New Amsterdam Market may be a new kid on the block, but it's part of a centuries-old tradition: long before the construction of the F.D.R. Drive or even the Brooklyn Bridge, Fulton Market was the largest and most important food showcase in Greater New York. Indeed, locals have been buying and selling fish (and meat, and cheese and produce) along this stretch of East River shoreline since the mid-1600s, when the first food markets of New Amsterdam sprang up around the ferry landing at Peck Slip.
At least six known public markets emerged in this same neighborhood through the ensuing centuries, eventually giving birth to the Fulton Fish Market, which did business on this spot from the early 1800s until the fateful day in 2005 when it was finally shuttered, with the market moved to Hunts Point in the Bronx.
The two sheds that housed the market have sat moldering ever since. The pilings that support them are eroding, and memories are fading.
Yes, development is coming to the area. Last month the Howard Hughes Corporation put forth a plan to refurbish nearby Pier 17 to include two big-box-size anchor tenants and several dozen other retailers within a glass-encased 250,000-square-foot mall. A development of this size will promise employment and tax dollars to the city. But what it can't do is create a synergy of commerce and culture that does justice to the neighborhood's storied past while leading it to an equally inspiring future. Nor is it likely to create new local businesses.
The old Fulton Fish Market and its city-owned buildings, which are not included in the Howard Hughes proposal, most certainly could. Currently the historic market sheds are victims of a kind of planned forgetfulness, lost in bureaucratic limbo that could lead to outright abandonment at best, eventual demolition at worst. What better use for these iconic waterfront structures than to house a permanent market to nurture and support small, innovative businesses dedicated to regional food systems?
Such adaptive reuse of public property is not only the most appropriate but also the most exciting future for the Fulton Fish Market. As the High Line project proved, reclaiming old infrastructure for contemporary needs creates new and compelling forms of public space while generating significant economic development. A permanent, year-round market at this site would host not just local fish sellers but also the regional cheesemongers, produce sellers, butchers, purveyors and distributors of all stripes that are beginning to proliferate in New York.
And with fisheries beginning to rebuild all up and down the East Coast, South Street could again become a place where fishermen and their dealers might sell their catch directly to city chefs and a public clamoring for local product -- a public that has been rapidly re-colonizing Lower Manhattan and turning it into one of the most compelling new real-estate destinations in the city.
Of course, the region's free-spirited fishermen will have to get reacquainted with the hustle and bustle of Manhattan. But with a thriving, reimagined market blooming right on the waterfront, they might just abandon the headache of big-city traffic and leave their old vans and pickup trucks at home. One day, just as they did a century ago, they might just choose to arrive at the Fulton Market by boat.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); FISH & SEAFOOD WHOLESALERS (89%); RETAILERS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); AQUACULTURE (73%); FISHERIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); HARBORS & PORTS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%)

COMPANY: HOWARD HUGHES CORP (60%)

TICKER: HHC (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (60%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012



192 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; TEXAS MONTHLY; Pg. 19B

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: GTT

BYLINE: By MICHAEL HOINSKI. 
mhoinski@texasmonthly.com

 BODY:
AUSTIN
Unlike Father, Unlike Son
Let's get this out of the way: Lukas Nelson, the frontman for Promise of the Real, is Willie Nelson's son. Of course there are going to be similarities, like the voices -- Lukas's in a wail and Willie's in a croon, have the same bite -- but Lukas plays an electric guitar and favors the blues more than country.
''Wasted,'' the title track on Lukas Nelson and Promise of the Real's new album of the same name, is a down and dirty, Southern rock version of Willie's ''Night Life.'' Buoyed by handclaps and hollers, Lukas, who has said he wrote the song right after finishing Keith Richards's autobiography, ''Life,'' reckons with his wild ways. 
''Don't make the same mistake I made when I was your age,'' he sings. ''I got wasted. Yes, I got wasted.'' He has since sworn off drinking, but that won't make the kick-off date for the ''Wasted'' tour any less rowdy.
Antone's, April 6, 9 p.m. promiseofthereal.com
LAMPASAS
Come and Get It
Chuckwagon cooks arguably had it tougher than cowboys. That's because the cooks often had scant supplies from which to conjure a meal that if unsatisfying to the wrong cowboy could mean the end of the trail -- or worse.
The annual Sulphur Creek Iron Chef Cook's Challenge demonstrates the reality of cooking in a Dutch oven over an open flame, exposed to the elements, with lots of hungry eyes upon you -- a situation that makes ''Iron Chef'' look easy. The living-history competition is divided into two categories: One rewards authenticity among the nine original wagons dating to the early-1800s, and the other tests the cooks' ability essentially to make something out of nothing, with beans, potatoes, bread and a mystery meat of beef, chicken, pork or goat.
''They don't know what they're getting until the night before, when they draw a poker chip out of a hat,'' said Sandra Julian, who organizes the event with her husband, Talbert White. ''We throw you lots of curves on your food.''
Campbell Park, April 6-7, various times. rafterts.com
HOUSTON
Theater of Dreams
One of Michael Sarff's favorite things when he was growing up in the Midwest was the drive-in. ''It's something you do as a kid,'' he said. ''It's a magic space.''
Mr. Sarff is the exhibition construction manger for a prestigious New York museum by day and a principal, with Tim Whidden, in the artist collaborative MTAA by night. The Aurora Picture Show, the Houston micro-cinema, has enlisted this design duo to commandeer the Universal Backyard Theater, a multiday, community-build project that will produce a temporary outdoor movie theater to act as a conduit for youthful nostalgia. This Habitat for Humanity-style art project is more about process than product.
''I've always been interested in nonverbal communication in how people decide to build something,'' Mr. Sarff said. ''Two people grabbing two-by-fours and saws and working together, there's a different kind of communication that happens.''
All of the hard work in conceptualizing and then executing the project will be rewarded with barbecue, beer and screenings of experimental films curated by Mr. Sarff in what he hopes will be a ''momentary utopia.''
Aurora Picture Show, April 11-14, various times.
aurorapictureshow.org
DALLAS
Serving Spoon
Musicians and music critics do not typically have supportive relationships. But for Chris Gray, the Houston Press music editor who had a heart attack last year and is still recovering, the rock band Spoon will show some love by playing a benefit gig for him in Austin.
It's the first of three dates in an increasingly rare Texas run for the part-time Austin band that has transcended the local scene with its spiky, economical new wave to achieve that rare blend of critical appreciation and mass appeal.
Because the Austin show is in such a small venue and is sold out, the next best bet for catching Britt Daniel and his cohorts is the Granada Theater. Even though that show, too, is sold out, it's a bigger space, which means more tickets for sale on Craigslist.
Granada Theater, April 12, 8 p.m. spoontheband.com
BRAZORIA
Pull
Most tugs of war are internal or metaphorical, so it's something else to see a real battle of opposing human forces trying to exert their physical dominance, especially when the losing side's fate in the Battle on the Bernard is an unsuspecting plunge into the San Bernard River.
F.M. 2611 Bridge, April 7, 11 a.m. battleonthebernard.com
GALVESTON
Spread Your Wings
Feather Fest, a weekend birding bonanza with a heralded nature photography component, will teach you how to be in the right place at the right time to capture the widest variety of winged life in its most poetic states.
Old Galveston Square, April 12-15, various times.
galvestonfeatherfest.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The losers in the Battle on the Bernard will get an unsuspecting dip in the San Bernard River. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BATTLE ON THE BERNARD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (76%); POP & ROCK (75%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (71%); RECORD RELEASES (70%); SONG WRITING (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (62%); PORK (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (54%)

PERSON: KEITH RICHARDS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (89%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (65%) TEXAS, USA (89%); MIDWEST USA (50%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012



193 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Low Growth In Earnings Is Expected

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Corporate profits have been among the brightest lights of the economic recovery, helping to lift the stock market more than 25 percent since October.
But analysts predict that when the first-quarter reporting season starts in earnest next week, American companies will show the slowest rate of growth in operating earnings in three years.
One widely used gauge of profits, the Standard & Poor's Capital IQ survey, forecasts that earnings will have grown 0.93 percent in the first quarter, compared with the first quarter of 2011, for the companies that make up the S.& P. 500-stock index. That would bring the value of one share of the index to $23.85. 
In the same period last year, operating earnings per index share were $23.63, a result of 19.68 percent growth from the first quarter in 2010.
''It is the lowest quarter of growth we have seen since the third quarter of 2009,'' said Christine Short, the senior manager for S.& P. Global Markets Intelligence. Other surveys, by Thomson Reuters and FactSet, show similar trends of weak first-quarter growth compared with the year before.
Many companies struggled through the difficult period since the 2008 financial crisis by trimming costs and laying off employees to help rebuild their bottom lines. Now analysts say that the cutbacks may have reached their limits and that profits could very well have peaked in the second half of last year.
The euro zone debt crisis, slowing growth in Asia and emerging markets, and commodity price inflation are also expected to have hurt performance, analysts said.
Analysts don't expect the European debt crisis ''to be fully dealt with in the first half of the year,'' Ms. Short said. ''There is too much uncertainty looming to say how it is going to affect corporate earnings.''
Part of the reason the numbers will show weakness is also smoke and mirrors: profits were starting to grow a year ago as the economy rebounded from the financial crisis, so comparisons to 2011 will be relatively mild.
''You still have growth, but it is at a slower pace,'' said Lawrence Creatura, a portfolio manager at Federated Investors.
Three of the 10 sectors of the S.& P. 500 index -- the industrial, technology and consumer staples companies -- will show earnings growth in the first quarter of 2012, according to the forecast. The energy industry is expected to show flat earnings.
Of the other six, materials and telecommunications are expected to record the largest drops, partly because of shrinking global demand, according to Ms. Short.
Among the companies with lowered forecasts are the steel companies Nucor and Steel Dynamics. Nucor said on March 15 that it expected first-quarter results in a range of 30 to 35 cents a share, down from 50 cents in the same period in 2011.
Because investors are being prepared for what they might see in the coming season, analysts said they did not expect the lower growth to cause any major stock market retreat. But the guidance the companies will give investors for the current quarter and the rest of the year poses a much bigger risk to sentiment.
Barry C. Knapp, the head of United States equity portfolio strategy at Barclays, said Barclays was estimating a retreat in the S.& P. 500 -- albeit less than 10 percent -- if investors were disappointed by companies' guidance.
Still, equities are inexpensive considering the current low interest rates, Mr. Creatura said.
One of the first major companies to report its first-quarter earnings for 2012 will be Alcoa, the aluminum producer, on Tuesday. Investors view the company as something of a bellwether for global economic trends because its products are used for automobiles, airplanes and construction, and also because it has operations in Europe.
Alcoa's operating earnings per share are forecast to have declined about 3 cents in the first quarter of 2012, about the same decline as in the fourth quarter, according to a Bloomberg survey. Its most recent guidance in January included an outlook of market growth for aerospace and auto companies, with 7 percent global growth in aluminum.
After Alcoa will be JPMorgan Chase, scheduled for next Friday. Average estimates for JPMorgan's operating earnings per share are $1.14, compared with $1.28 a year ago and 93 cents in the fourth quarter of 2011.
It, too, is considered a bellwether for its industry, because it is one of the largest banks in asset terms and because its leader, Jamie Dimon, is often seen as a spokesman for the industry, said Gerard S. Cassidy, a banking analyst for RBC Capital Markets.
A recovery in overall earnings growth is expected in the third quarter, according to average forecasts, said John Manley, chief equity strategist at Wells Fargo Advantage Funds.
''I suspect that Europe may have a little bit more of an impact on the bottom line, and the talk may be more measured in terms of growth expectations going forward,'' Mr. Manley said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alcoa's Mount Holly plant in Goose Creek, S.C. Alcoa is scheduled to report earnings next week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MORTON/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); EURO ZONE (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EURO CRISIS (71%); INFLATION (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (52%)

TICKER: FII (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012



194 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2312 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Jazz
Full reviews of recent jazz performances: nytimes.com/jazz.
Ralph Alessi's Modular Theater (Friday) Collective improvisation is the mode and mission of Modular Theater, a slippery ensemble led by Mr. Alessi, an exacting trumpeter, and featuring Loren Stillman on alto saxophone, Drew Gress on bass and Mark Ferber on drums, with Will Jennings on vocals. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $25 cover, includes one drink. (Nate Chinen)
- Theo Bleckmann (Saturday) A vocalist of inventive instinct and assiduous musicality, Mr. Bleckmann is never more secure than when in reverie, plumbing depths at once familiar and strange. He's celebrating the release of ''Hello Earth! The Music of Kate Bush'' (Winter & Winter), an inspired interrogation of the art-rock siren; his band features the violist and guitarist Caleb Burhans, the pianist Henry Hey, the bassist Chris Tarry and the drummer Ben Wittman. At 8 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $15 in advance, $20 day of show. (Chinen) 
Ron Carter Quartet (Friday through Sunday) Ron Carter, one of jazz's most highly regarded bassists, tends to favor polish over power in his small-group work, but that doesn't mean his bands lack a vital spark. This one shouldn't, anyway: it features a smartly intuitive pianist, Renee Rosnes, along with the drummer Payton Crossley and the percussionist Rolando Morales-Matos. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $35 cover at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)
Central Brooklyn Jazz Festival (Friday through April 30) This homegrown, community-supported festival, now in its 13th season, continues with bookings in and around the Fort Greene neighborhood of Brooklyn. Among the highlights are the Houston Person Quartet, at 8 p.m. on Friday at Jazz 966, 966 Fulton Street; and the Kenyatta Beasley Quintet, in a tribute to Frank Foster, at 9 and 10:30 p.m. on Saturday at Sistas' Place, 456 Nostrand Avenue. For a full schedule and more information, visit cbjcjazz.org. (Chinen)
- Chano Dominguez: Flamenco Sketches (Friday through Sunday) Mr. Dominguez, the versatile Andalusian pianist, recorded his new album -- ''Flamenco Sketches'' (Blue Note), named after the ballad of the same name on Miles Davis's ''Kind of Blue'' -- during an engagement at the Jazz Standard in 2009. He returns to help celebrate the club's 10th anniversary, with the vocalist and percussionist Blas Cordoba, the bassist Omer Avital and the drummer Dafnis Prieto. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 p.m. set Friday and Saturday, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $30 cover. (Chinen)
Ellery Eskelin Trio (Saturday) The tenor saxophonist Ellery Eskelin pays homage to his mother -- a Hammond B-3 organ player known as Bobbie Lee -- on his most recent album, ''Trio New York'' (Prime Source). He appears here with Gary Versace, who also plays organ on the album; the drummer is Rudy Royston. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $25 cover, includes one drink. (Chinen)
Orrin Evans and the Captain Black Big Band (Friday and Saturday) On ''Captain Black Big Band'' (Posi-Tone), his fine recent live album, the pianist Orrin Evans drives a high-octane large ensemble with intensity and vigor. He does the same here, showcasing a mixed lineup of hardy improvisers from Philadelphia and New York. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20 cover, or $10 for members. (Chinen)
Bill Evans's Soulgrass (Tuesday through April 14) The recent death of Earl Scruggs, a pioneer of bluegrass and the most influential banjo player of all time, will surely inform some of the music produced by this hybrid summit, a pet project of the saxophonist Bill Evans. The group features a banjo player, Ryan Cavanaugh, along with guests like the keyboardist John Medeski (only on Wednesday and Thursday), the vibraphonist Mike Mainieri (on Tuesday and April 13 and 14) and the trumpeter Randy Brecker (Thursday only). At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $35 cover at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)
- Orrin Evans and the Captain Black Big Band (Friday and Saturday) On ''Captain Black Big Band'' (Posi-Tone), his fine recent live album, the pianist Orrin Evans drives a high-octane large ensemble with intensity and vigor. He does the same here, showcasing a mixed lineup of hardy improvisers from Philadelphia and New York. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20 cover, or $10 for members. (Chinen)
- Salute to Sonny Fortune (Thursday) Mr. Fortune, a saxophonist who has spent his career extending the quest started by John Coltrane in the 1960, presides over this concert, organized by the Highlights in Jazz series. He'll be in good, familiar company: the trumpeter Lew Soloff, the trombonist Robin Eubanks, the pianist George Cables, the bassist Buster Williams and the drummer Billy Hart; also performing is the singer Tessa Souter, with Gene Bertoncini on guitar. At 8 p.m., TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, 199 Chambers Street, near Greenwich Street, (212) 220-1460, tribecapac.org/music.htm; $40, or $37.50 for students. ( Chinen)
Tom Harrell Quintet (Tuesday through April 15) An introverted but assertive trumpeter, Tom Harrell draws from his most recent album, ''The Time of the Sun'' (HighNote), with a version of his steadily working band: Wayne Escoffery on saxophone, Danny Grissett on piano, Ugonna Okegwo on bass and Johnathan Blake on drums. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)
- Billy Hart Quartet (Friday and Saturday) The drummer Billy Hart, 71, has a marvelous new album featuring this longtime working group, featuring prominent acolytes: the tenor saxophonist Mark Turner, the pianist Ethan Iverson and the bassist Ben Street. The album, ''All Our Reasons'' (ECM), features a vivid program of original music, by Mr. Hart and others; it will probably stand as one of the best jazz releases of the year. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $30 and $40 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
Gilad Hekselman Trio (Saturday) A smart guitarist awash in contemporary harmony and multiple strains of groove, Gilad Hekselman draws here from ''Hearts Wide Open'' (Le Chant du Monde), re-enlisting the album's unflappable rhythm team of Joe Martin on bass and Marcus Gilmore on drums. At 7:30, 9:30 and 11:30 p.m., Bar Next Door, 129 Macdougal Street, near West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 529-5945, lalanternacaffe.com; $12 cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)
- Vijay Iyer Trio (Tuesday through April 14) The pianist and composer Vijay Iyer just released ''Accelerando'' (Act), the second album featuring his superb trio with the nimble but grounded bassist Stephan Crump and the magically propulsive drummer Marcus Gilmore. Already the subject of much praise in these pages and elsewhere, the album seems likely to spark an even more dynamic interplay in person, during this album-release engagement. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $30 and $40 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
Kneebody (Wednesday through April 14) This quick-change electro-acoustic chamber ensemble is taking up a four-night residency next week courtesy of the indie promoter Search and Restore, presenting a different concept each night. On Wednesday the band will play the music of the Brazilian pop mischief-maker Tom Ze, with help from Gretchen Parlato on vocals and Mark Giuliana on drums; on Thursday the songs will be by the singer-songwriter Judee Sill, with an as-yet-unannounced guest vocalist. At 9 p.m., Littlefield, 622 Degraw Street, between Third and Fourth Avenues, Gowanus, Brooklyn, littlefieldnyc.com; $15, or $12 for students. (Chinen)
Joe Locke Quintet (Friday through Sunday) A kinetic and harmonically sophisticated vibraphonist, Joe Locke has a recent album, ''For the Love of You'' (eOne), with a pronounced emphasis on romance. He mines similar terrain here, with help from the singer Kenny Washington, the pianist Dado Moroni, the bassist George Mraz and the drummer Clarence Penn. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 p.m. set on Friday and Saturday, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $30 to $40 cover, students $15 for select sets, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)
One for All (Friday and Saturday) Drawing mainly from its most recent album, ''Incorrigible'' (Jazz Legacy), this hard-bop collective benefits greatly from the lean proficiency of its roster: Eric Alexander on tenor saxophone, Jim Rotondi on trumpet, Steve Davis on trombone, David Hazeltine on piano, John Webber on bass and Joe Farnsworth on drums. At 8, 10 and 11:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; $35 cover. (Chinen)
Herlin Riley Quartet (Tuesday through April 15) Few contemporary jazz drummers groove as naturally as Herlin Riley, who presides here over a quartet composed of other musicians with past ties to Wynton Marsalis: the trombonist Wycliffe Gordon (Tuesday and Wednesday only), the saxophonist Todd Williams, the pianist Peter Martin and the bassist Reginald Veal. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $30 and $35 cover, students $15 for select sets, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)
Adam Rudolph: Go Organic Orchestra (Monday) This sprawling, meditative large ensemble, scheduled to perform at Roulette every Monday night in April, is a project of the open-minded percussionist, composer and conductor Adam Rudolph. Drawing inspiration from earthy and elemental sources, it features a total of 38 pieces, in a diverse whorl of woodwinds, strings, percussion and guitars. At 8 p.m., Roulette, 509 Atlantic Avenue, at Third Avenue, Brooklyn, (917) 267-0363, roulette.org; $10. (Chinen)
Sun of Goldfinger (Saturday) The guitarist David Torn, the alto saxophonist Tim Berne and the drummer Ches Smith make up this improvising trio, grounded in textural exploration and concussive power. At 8:30 p.m., Shapeshifter Lab, 18 Whitwell Place, Gowanus, Brooklyn, shapeshifterlab.com; $15. (Chinen)
- Craig Taborn Trio (Friday through Sunday) Last year Craig Taborn, a busy sideman in New York's left-of-center jazz vector, released his solo-piano debut, ''Avenging Angel'' (ECM), a brilliant and unpredictable study informed by contemporary classical music as well as several currents of improvisation. This weekend he closes out his first-ever engagement with a trio at the Village Vanguard, working alongside two intuitive partners, the bassist Thomas Morgan and the drummer Gerald Cleaver. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)
Yosvany Terry Quintet (Tuesday and Wednesday) The saxophonist and percussionist Yosvany Terry has a new album, ''Today's Opinion'' (Criss Cross), that further solidifies his stature as one of the serious younger faces of Afro-Cuban jazz. His band here, as on the album, has Yunior Terry, his brother, on bass; Michael Rodriguez on trumpet; Osmany Paredes on piano; Obed Calvaire on drums; and as a featured guest, the percussionist Pedrito Martinez. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $20 cover. (Chinen)
- Trio M (Saturday) The pianist Myra Melford, the bassist Mark Dresser and the drummer Matt Wilson make up Trio M, a collective with a clear bead on the free jazz legacy of the 1960s. But ''The Guest House'' (Yellowbird/Enja), the group's excellent second album, doesn't feel tethered to any era or dialect: with compositions by all three members, it's a crisp, engaging ride, variously roiling or reflective, with high-wire interplay at almost every turn. At 8 and 10 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; $25 cover, with a $15 minimum. (Chinen)
Steve Wilson Super Band (Thursday through April 15) The alto and soprano saxophonist Steve Wilson combines economy and modernity in his playing, and in this group -- convened to help celebrate the 10th anniversary of the Jazz Standard, one of his steadiest perches -- he has musicians well equipped to frame his sound. On piano is Patrice Rushen; on bass is James Genus (except on April 14); on drums is Billy Kilson. And joining as a guest, only on April 13 and 14, is one of Mr. Wilson's regular collaborators, the singer Carla Cook. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $25 cover. (Chinen)
Eri Yamamoto Trio (Tuesday) The pianist Eri Yamamoto weighs exploratory instincts against a reflective temperament, and her trio, with David Ambrosio on bass and Ikuo Takeuchi on drums, supports her at every turn. She's celebrating the release of ''The Next Page'' (AUM Fidelity), her fourth album with these partners and her seventh with Mr. Takeuchi. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $20 cover, includes one drink. (Chinen)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: VIJAY IYER TRIO: (Tuesday through April 14) The pianist and composer Vijay Iyer, right, just released ''Accelerando'' (Act), the second album featuring his superb trio with the nimble but grounded bassist Stephan Crump and the magically propulsive drummer Marcus Gilmore. Already the subject of much praise in The New York Times and elsewhere, the album seems likely to lead to an even more dynamic interplay in person, during this release engagement. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com
 $30 and $40 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Nate Chinen) (PHOTOGRAPH BY JORDI VIDAL/REDFERNS, VIA GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); JAZZ & BLUES (91%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); RECORD RELEASES (79%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (79%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (79%); FESTIVALS (78%); MUSIC (76%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (77%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012



195 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Huge Rooftop Farm Is Set for Brooklyn

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
Brooklyn is fast becoming the borough of farms. On Thursday, Bright Farms, a private company that develops greenhouses, announced plans to create a sprawling greenhouse on a roof in Sunset Park that is expected to yield a million pounds of produce a year -- without using any dirt.
The hydroponic greenhouse, at a former Navy warehouse that the city's Economic Development Corporation acquired last year, will occupy up to 100,000 square feet of rooftop space. Construction is scheduled to start in the fall, with the first harvest expected next spring. 
When finished, the greenhouse will rank as the largest rooftop farm in the United States -- and possibly the world, Bright Farms officials say. This spring, Brooklyn Grange, another rooftop farm developer, is set to open a 45,000-square-foot commercial operation at the Brooklyn Navy Yard.
''Brooklyn was an agricultural powerhouse in the 19th century, and it has now become a local food scene second to none,'' said Paul Lightfoot, the chief executive of Bright Farms. ''We're bringing a business model where food is grown and sold right in the community.''
Mr. Lightfoot said that the company was in talks with supermarket chains that would potentially commit to buying produce from the Sunset Park farm, which will include a variety of lettuces, tomatoes and herbs. ''We're looking for a long-term contract with one client who operates grocery stores,'' he said.
Bright Farms owns and operates a small ground-level greenhouse, in Huntington, on Long Island, which has a relationship with a supermarket chain called Best Yet Market, with stores in the New York region, including one in Harlem. Bright Farms also plans to open three more commercial greenhouses this year in locations across the country, including Bucks County, Pa.
The Brooklyn greenhouse will rise 20 feet from the roof of an eight-story, 1.1-million-square-foot structure that was built in 1916 for the Department of the Navy. Vacant since 2000, the building, at 850 Third Avenue, is being developed by Salmar Properties, which was chosen by the city to transform the site into a light-manufacturing hub, and which bought the building from the city for $10 million.
Marty Markowitz, the borough president, said that the Bright Farms rooftop was a good fit for the site, a key component of the mayor's plan to redevelop the Brooklyn industrial waterfront. ''Here in New York, we don't have acres and acres of unused land to grow fresh food, but Brooklyn's got plenty of industrial buildings with unused roofs that are perfect for urban farming,'' he said in a statement.
Mr. Markowitz pressed for changes to the city's zoning laws that would make it easier for commercial farms to sprout on New York rooftops. In December, the City Planning Department issued a proposed zoning amendment that would exclude greenhouses atop commercial buildings from certain height and floor-area restrictions.
Hydroponic agriculture, in which vegetables are grown in water rather than soil, has been derided by some purists who say the resulting produce lacks taste. But the farms' yields have increased in popularity because of advances in hydroponic technology, as well as quick travel times from farms to restaurant tables and store shelves.
Hydroponic farms are ideal for rooftops, according to Bright Farms, because they have such high yields and are less heavy than soil-based operations. They also use far less water, while diverting storm water from the sewer system, which can overflow during heavy rain. The Sunset Park greenhouse would capture an estimated 1.8 million gallons of storm water each year.
The Bright Farms greenhouse will join a half-dozen commercial rooftop farms in New York City. Brooklyn Grange already runs a one-acre operation in Long Island City, Queens, and Gotham Greens, another company, has a hydroponic rooftop garden in the Greenpoint, Brooklyn.
Next year, Gotham Greens plans to open three new rooftop greenhouses in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx; added to the 20,000-square-foot Greenpoint greenhouse, the new sites, which will be hydroponic, would raise the company's total production to 200,000 square feet.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An old Navy warehouse in Sunset Park will be home to a hydroponic greenhouse of up to 100,000 square feet. The developer says it will be the largest such greenhouse in the country. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC MICHAEL JOHNSON FOR THE NEW YORK ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GREENHOUSE & PROTECTED CROPS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CITIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); NAVIES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); ZONING (73%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012



196 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Playing the Violence Card

BYLINE: By KHALIL GIBRAN MUHAMMAD. 
Khalil Gibran Muhammad, director of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture at the New York Public Library, is the author of ''The Condemnation of Blackness: Race, Crime, and the Making of Modern Urban America.''

 BODY:
EVER since the culture wars of the 1980s, Americans have been familiar with ''the race card'' -- an epithet used to discredit real and imagined cries of racism. Less familiar, however, is an equally cynical rhetorical tactic that I call ''the violence card.''
Here's how it works. When confronted with an instance of racially charged violence against a black person, a commentator draws attention to the fact that there is much more black-on-black violence than white-on-black violence. To play the violence card -- as many criminal-justice advocates have done since the Rodney King police brutality case of the early 1990s -- is to suggest that black people should worry more about the harm they do to themselves and less about how victimized they are by others. 
The national outrage over the Trayvon Martin case has prompted some recent examples. Last week, the journalist Juan Williams wrote in The Wall Street Journal of the ''tragedy'' of Trayvon's death but wondered ''what about all the other young black murder victims? Nationally, nearly half of all murder victims are black. And the overwhelming majority of those black people are killed by other black people.'' During a debate about the case on Sunday on an ABC News program, the commentator George F. Will argued that the ''root fact'' is that ''about 150 black men are killed every week in this country -- and 94 percent of them by other black men.''
For Mr. Williams, Mr. Will and countless others playing the violence card, the real issue has little to do with racist fears or police practices -- even though those would seem to be the very issues at hand.
It's true that black-on-black violence is an exceptionally grave problem. But this does not explain the allure of the violence card, which perpetuates the reassuring notion that violence against black people is not society's concern but rather a problem for black people to fix on their own. The implication is that the violence that afflicts black America reflects a failure of lower-class black culture, a breakdown of personal responsibility, a pathological trait of a criminally inclined subgroup -- not a problem with social and institutional roots that needs to be addressed through collective effort well beyond the boundaries of black communities.
But perhaps the large scale of black-on-black violence justifies playing the violence card? Not if you recall how Americans responded to high levels of white-on-white violence in the past.
Consider the crime waves of 1890 to 1930, when millions of poor European immigrants came to America only to be trapped in inner-city slums, suffering the effects of severe economic inequality and social marginalization. Around the turn of the century, the Harvard economist William Ripley described the national scene: ''The horde now descending upon our shores is densely ignorant, yet dull and superstitious withal; lawless, with a disposition to criminality.'' But the solution, Ripley argued, was not stigma, isolation and the promotion of fear. ''They are fellow passengers on our ship of state,'' he wrote, ''and the health of the nation depends upon the preservation of the vitality of the lower classes.''
As a spokesman for saving white immigrant communities from the violence within, Ripley was part of a national progressive movement led by Jane Addams, the influential social worker of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. In the face of grisly, gang-related youth shootings -- ''duplicated almost every morning,'' Addams wrote -- she insisted that everyone from the elite to community organizers to police officers had a part to play.
She and other progressives mobilized institutional resources to save killers and the future victims of killers. Violent white neighborhoods were flooded with social workers, police reformers and labor activists committed to creating better jobs and building a social welfare net. White-on-white violence fell slowly but steadily in proportion to economic development and crime prevention.
In almost every way the opposite situation applied to black Americans. Instead of provoking a steady dose of compassionate progressivism, crime and violence in black communities fueled the racist belief that, as numerous contemporaries stated, blacks were their ''own worst enemies'' -- an early version of the violence card. Black people were ''criminalized'' through various institutions and practices, whether Southern chain gangs, prison farms, convict lease camps and lynching bees or Northern anti-black neighborhood violence and race riots.
Racial criminalization has continued to this day, stigmatizing black people as dangerous, legitimizing or excusing white-on-black violence, conflating crime and poverty with blackness, and perpetuating punitive notions of ''justice'' -- vigilante violence, stop-and-frisk racial profiling and mass incarceration -- as the only legitimate responses.
But the past does not have to be the future. The violence card is a cynical ploy that will only contribute to more fear, more black alienation and more violence. Rejecting its skewed logic and embracing a compassionate progressive solution for black crime is our best hope for saving lives and ensuring that young men like Trayvon Martin do not die in vain.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOPOS GRAPHICS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (91%); MURDER (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); TRAYVON MARTIN SHOOTING (73%); JOURNALISM (72%); WRITERS (67%); SLUM DWELLINGS (60%); CITY LIFE (60%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012



197 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Markets Mixed on Fears About Europe

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks were mostly lower on Thursday, sending the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to its biggest weekly loss of the year as renewed concern about Europe's debt crisis overshadowed a decline in jobless claims to a four-year low.
The S.& P. 500 fell 0.88 points, or 0.06 percent, to 1,398.08. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 14.61 points, or 0.11 percent, to 13,060.14. The Nasdaq composite index was higher, gaining 12.41 points, or 0.40 percent, to 3,080.50. 
About 5.8 billion shares changed hands on U.S. stock exchanges, 15 percent below the three-month average.
''You have, certainly, improvement in the labor market in the U.S. but every once in a while we got reminded there still remain problems in Europe,'' said Greg Woodard, a portfolio strategist at Manning & Napier in Fairport, N.Y. ''The volatility is going to continue. It's going to be choppy. The trend seems to be improvement in the U.S. and continued difficulties outside the U.S.''
The S.& P. 500 retreated 0.7 percent this week after reaching an almost four-year high on April 2, as demand fell at a Spanish bond auction and minutes from the Federal Reserve's latest policy meeting damped expectations for more monetary stimulus.
The gauge has still rallied 11 percent this year as economic reports surpassed estimates and investors speculated the euro zone's sovereign debt crisis will be contained.
Equities trimmed early losses after Labor Department data showed new jobless claims fell 6,000, to 357,000, in the week ended March 31, the fewest since April 2008.
Economists in a Bloomberg News survey estimated a decrease to 355,000. The number of people on unemployment benefit rolls also declined, while those receiving extended payments increased.
Stocks fell earlier as Spanish bonds declined for a third day, pushing the spread between yields on 10-year Spanish and German debt to more than 400 basis points for the first time since Dec. 12.
United States Treasuries advanced for a second day as speculation about Europe's debt spurred demand for safe assets.
Ten-year yields posted the biggest two-day drop since January as borrowing costs rose at a French auction. Treasuries pared gains after higher-than-forecast employment growth in Canada set off speculation that Friday's jobs report might indicate a stronger economic recovery.
''Europe is back on the front burner,'' said Thomas Roth, senior Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA. ''It's a constant battle between the U.S. getting better and fears in Europe. It's one of the fears that the Fed has, that Europe could crumble and drag us down.''
The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 12/32, to 98 13/32, and the yield fell to 2.18 percent from 2.22 percent late Wednesday.
Constellation Brands, the liquor company, fell 12 percent to $21.61 after it said earnings per share for the full year might be $1.93 to $2.03, below the $2.23 expected by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Consumer discretionary stocks had the biggest gain in the S.& P. 500, led by Bed Bath & Beyond. The retail-chain operator rose 8.5 percent to $71.85 as the company posted a fourth-quarter profit of $1.48 a share, beating the average analyst estimate of $1.32.
Cabot Oil and Gas rose 2.2 percent to $31.94 as the price of crude oil rose 1.6 percent.
Oil gained for the first time in three days as the jobless numbers and the rebound from early losses in equity markets raised hopes that demand for oil would grow in the United States.
Crude for May delivery gained $1.84 to settle at $103.31 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The price rose 29 cents this week.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (86%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); AUCTIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (64%); EURO ZONE (64%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (57%); MANNING & NAPIER INC (56%)

TICKER: MN (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012



198 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 6584 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to many other art shows is at nytimes.com/events.
Museums
- American Folk Art Museum: 'Jubilation Rumination: Life, Real and Imagined' (through Sept. 2) Having escaped the ugly, West 53rd Street tomb of a building it inhabited from 2001 to 2011, the American Folk Art Museum has reoccupied its old space on Lincoln Square. This wonderful show of about 100 works from the permanent collection samples all the varieties of artistic expression under the museum's purview, from portraits and quilts by anonymous craftspeople to otherworldly fantasies envisioned by so-called Outsiders like Henry Darger and Martin Ramirez. The revival of this irreplaceable institution is cause of rejoicing. 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue, at 66th Street, (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson) 
Asia Society and Museum: 'Princes and Painters in Mughal Delhi 1707-1857' (through May 6) This exhibition covers the late reign of the rich and powerful Mughals, from whom we derive the word mogul, tracking their decline, which coincided with the rise of British rule in India. Wall texts describe imperial intrigue and violence, while paintings depict serene landscapes and interiors and exquisitely drawn courtly figures. There are British colonial patrons called ''White Mughals'' because they had Indian families and adopted local customs, and a final section in which the gruesome narrative in the texts fuses with the images, in the medium of photography, in works like ''Zafar in Captivity,'' which shows the last Mughal emperor as a profoundly defeated man. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742, asiasociety.org. (Martha Schwendener)
Bronx Museum of the Arts: 'Juan Downey: The Invisible Architect' (through May 20) In the wilder moments of his career, Mr. Downey, who died of cancer in 1993 at 53 and is getting his first United States museum retrospective here, reversed the traditional dynamic of sculpture, examining how humans could affect objects rather than the other way around; administered oxygen to pedestrians on the street in New York in ''Fresh Air'' (1972); and cohabitated as a kind of gonzo anthropologist -- or early implementer of art as social practice -- with the Yanomami Indians in Venezuela. Central to his vision, which drew on Frederick Kubler, critical theory and hallucinogenic states of mind, Mr. Downey also developed a concept of ''invisible architecture,'' which he described in 1973 as ''an attitude of total communication within which ultra-developed minds will be telepathically cellular to an electromagnetic whole.'' 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, the Bronx, (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Schwendener)
Brooklyn Museum: 'Keith Haring: 1978-1982' (through July 8) Heavy on the party photographs and punk-to-New Wave soundtrack, this show repackages the mythic Haring -- club kid, Warhol protege and maker of friendly street art -- for a younger generation. But other Harings emerge in rarely seen early drawings, collages, journals and, especially, in short performative videos like ''Painting Myself Into a Corner'' and ''Tribute to Gloria Vanderbilt.'' 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
- The Cloisters: 'The Game of Kings: Medieval Ivory Chessmen From the Isle of Lewis' (through April 22) In 1831, a farmer on the Isle of Lewis, the largest island of the Outer Hebrides, discovered a lost cache of medieval chess pieces. Today, thanks to ''Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone,'' in which Harry and Ron play with magically animated replicas of them, the Lewis Chessmen are world famous. On tour from the British Museum, these adorable, bug-eyed little kings, queens, bishops, knights and warders, each beautifully carved from walrus ivory, are wonderful to examine up close. You don't have to be a chess player or a Harry Potter fan to love them. 99 Margaret Corbin Drive, Fort Tryon Park, Washington Heights, (212) 923-3700, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
- Frick Collection: 'Renoir, Impressionism and Full-Length Painting' (through May 13) Impressionism, like fashion, is dedicated to the fleeting sensation: this moment's light, this season's dress. Yet the works in this exhibition, which transforms the Frick's mohair-upholstered East Gallery into a runway for Renoir's soigne Parisians, don't at first register as Impressionist. With their traditional portrait format and imposing scale, they seem at odds with the modest plein-air paintings that define the movement. Central among them is the Frick's own Renoir, ''La Promenade'' (1875-6), in which a stylish young woman guides two equally well-dressed little girls along a public garden path. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Rosenberg)
Frick Collection: 'White Gold: Highlights From the Arnhold Collection of Meissen Porcelain' (through April 29) Porcelain lovers will not want to miss this show of domestic ware made in Germany in the early 1700s, but the big news is the new wing, the Portico Gallery, that it inaugurates. The Frick has transformed an outdoor colonnade into an indoor exhibition space. Floor-to-ceiling windows enclose a long, narrow space that feels bigger and airier than its actual 850 square feet. In the small rotunda at one end, a life-size, nude Diana by Jean-Antoine Houdon looks out over the traffic on Fifth Avenue with divine indifference. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Johnson)
- Guggenheim Museum: 'John Chamberlain: Choices' (through May 13) The postwar sculptor John Chamberlain, who died in December, manipulated crushed car parts into abstract clusters that are both gorgeous and terrifying. As installed on the Guggenheims curved ramps for this full-dress retrospective, they look, inevitably, like mangled wrecks on a speedway. Yet the show goes to great lengths to extricate Mr. Chamberlain from what he called ''the car-crash syndrome.'' It includes work made from foam, aluminum foil, paper and plexiglass, and it emphasizes the collage process behind the metal sculptures rather than the material that went into them. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Rosenberg)
- Guggenheim Museum: 'Francesca Woodman' (through June 13) Francesca Woodman, the photographer who at 22 took her own life in 1981, is as close to a true saint as the putatively secular world of contemporary art can claim. The dreamy, formally playful and disarmingly erotic pictures she made -- mostly of herself partly unclothed or naked -- project a self surrendering unreservedly to the spirit of art. Viewing this riveting survey of her sadly abbreviated career, it is hard to shake off the admittedly absurd notion that she was too pure an artist for this muddy world. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Johnson)
International Center of Photography: 'The Loving Story: Photographs by Grey Villet' (through May 6) Richard and Mildred Loving, an interracial couple from Virginia whose marriage prompted a benchmark 1967 Supreme Court ruling overturning state miscegenation laws, are portrayed not as political activists, but as political heroes who fell into history by accident. The story began on July 11, 1958, when a Virginia county sheriff and two deputies entered the Lovings' bedroom at 2 a.m. and arrested them, saying they had violated the Racial Integrity Act. Mr. Villet's images represent the heyday of social documentary, but also the midcentury photo-essay format. Ms. Loving later became a conscious activist when, on the 40th anniversary of the Supreme Court ruling, she made a statement supporting the right to marry, whether ''black or white, young or old, gay or straight.'' 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Schwendener)
- International Center of Photography: 'Weegee: Murder Is My Business' (through Sept. 2) From the home of Weegee's voluminous archive, the latest exhibition about this great documentary photographer (1899-1968) revisits his frenetic, formative first decade of work, starting in 1935, when his often sensational images of murder and mayhem appeared in New York's daily newspapers. His penchant for self-promotion, the work of his competitors and peers, the evolution of tabloid journalism and the great city that was both his subject and his audience are emphasized, with fresh curatorial precision and deftly used touch screens. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Roberta Smith)
- Japan Society: 'Deco Japan: Shaping Art and Culture, 1920-1945' (through June 10) This beautiful, surprising and sociologically intriguing exhibition reveals how Japanese artists, designers and craftsmen cultivated their own version of Art Deco, that excruciatingly suave style of art, design and decor that prevailed in Europe and America during the 1920s and '30s. The 200 paintings, sculptures, ceramics, glassware, jewelry, fashion and printed ephemera on display seamlessly blend East and West and old and new. You could almost believe it was the Japanese who invented Art Deco. 333 East 47th Street, (212) 832-1155, japansociety.org. (Johnson)
Jewish Museum: 'Kehinde Wiley / The World Stage: Israel' (through July 29) After earning a master of fine arts at Yale in 2001, Kehinde Wiley began exhibiting his large, figurative oil-on-canvas portraits of young black men in hip-hop apparel. With their emphasis on bright, acid colors and ghetto-fabulous outfits, the paintings borrowed heavily from the work of Barkley Hendricks, although Mr. Wiley's contribution was to push things in a more bombastic direction, hijacking the format of old master portraits. Mr. Wiley's work hasn't changed much over the last decade, although his scope has gone global. This exhibition, which focuses on Ethiopian Israeli Jews, is shown alongside historic paper cuts and textile works he selected from the museum's collection. The result is a fusion of Pattern and Decoration painting with figuration, a mash-up or sampling of historical styles and references. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3337, thejewishmuseum.org. (Schwendener)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Byzantium and Islam: Age of Transition' (through July 8) Concluding the Met's series of Byzantine art blockbusters, this show tells the story of the Byzantine Empire in the Eastern Mediterranean, from Syria through Egypt and across North Africa, as it made contact with (and lost ground to) the emerging Islamic world between the seventh and ninth centuries. Loans from Egypt could not be secured because of the continuing turmoil of the Arab Spring, but important pieces from Jordan, Greece and Georgia are among the show's highlights. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Chinese Art in an Age of Revolution: Fu Baoshi (1904-1965)' (through April 15) Serene on the surface but less so underneath, the museum's first full-dress retrospective of a 20th-century Chinese painter is as much about history as art history. It focuses on an artist, teacher and art historian who helped preserve the ancient tradition of ink painting and then struggled to make it relevant under the Communists, bending it toward propaganda, introducing a new degree of realism and making frequent use of red. While fascinating, the show leaves you wondering what he might have accomplished under less encumbered circumstances. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Naked Before the Camera' (through Sept. 9) This resonant, illuminating if sometimes fraught exhibition traces the progress of the naked, mostly female body through photography from its early years nearly to the present with some 90 images, all owned by the Met. In works variously artistic, erotic, scientific, ethnographic, forensic and experimental, we see a medium stretched by human use and imagination. The male gaze is often relentless, but as time passes, individual faces, personalities and relationships come into focus on all sides; consciousness rises and oppressiveness decreases, which is a relief. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Rembrandt and Degas: Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man' (through May 20) This lovely small show, focused on self-portrait paintings and prints, proposes that Rembrandt was a greater influence on Degas than has generally been recognized. Degas as a young man studied Rembrandt prints, copied at least one and made others imitating Rembrandt-type effects. But a group of four captivating self-portraits at the heart of the show -- two by each artist painted at age 23 -- suggests that the men were temperamentally about as alike as a cat and a dog. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Spies in the House of Art: Photography, Film, and Video' (through Aug. 26) This exhibition of 17 contemporary works inspired by museums doesn't mention Theodor Adorno by name, but it nods toward his ideas in a wall text, which jokes that artists often see museums as ''mausoleums, places where art goes to die.'' Andrea Fraser's video ''Museum Highlights: A Gallery Talk'' (1989) leans toward the anti-museum view, while a 16mm film by Nashashibi/Skaer, the duo of British artists Rosalind Nashashibi and Lucy Skaer, made by gliding through the Met in the dark with a camera and a flash strobe, treats the museum like a darkened crypt. Lutz Bacher's video offers another museum tour, while the museum appears in poetically distorted form in photographs by John Pilson, Tim Davis and Lothar Baumgarten. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Schwendener)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Steins Collect: Matisse, Picasso, and the Parisian Avant-Garde' (through June 3) Like the family it chronicles, this exhibition is fragmented and contentious with flashes of brilliance. It explores the closely intertwined collections of the siblings Leo, Gertrude and Michael Stein (and Michael's wife, Sarah), casting these wealthy American expatriates as ahead-of-the-curve art patrons whose tastes and social networks shaped Modernism as we know it. And it shows Matisse and Picasso vying for the Steins' attention. Highlights include Matisse's Fauvist ''Woman With a Hat'' and, naturally, Picasso's proto-cubist portrait of Gertrude. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Storytelling in Japanese Art' (through May 6) An uncannily contemporary sense of fluidity, action and emotion courses throughout this captivating exhibition, which traces the Japanese penchant for narrative through hand scrolls, hanging scrolls and books, on to the expanded field of folding screens. The sublime 13th-century ''Illustrated Legends of the Kitano Tenjin Shrine'' alone is a must-see: its five hand scrolls constitute one of the Met's greatest paintings and have never before been shown together. Return visits are merited. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
- MoMA PS1: 'Frances Stark: My Best Thing' (through April 30) ''My Best Thing,'' a 99-minute film that Los Angeles presented at the 2011 Venice Biennale, features digitally animated, childlike figures isolated on green-screen backgrounds. In computer-generated voices, they candidly converse about art, literature and sex to improbably engaging effect. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Johnson)
- Morgan Library & Museum: 'Dan Flavin: Drawing' (through July 1) The artist Dan Flavin (1933-96) is so closely identified with his signature medium, the fluorescent light sculpture, that a show of his drawings is bound to surprise. And it's particularly exciting to find that Flavin was not only a devoted draftsman but also a freewheeling polymath on paper. The Morgan's show includes drawings from Flavin's personal collection, which encompasses Hokusai, Mondrian and the Hudson River School and will completely change the way you see his art. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, Ext. 560, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
- Morgan Library & Museum: 'Rembrandt's World: Dutch Drawings From the Clement C. Moore Collection' (through April 29) You won't see much of Rembrandt in this exhibition of about 90 works on paper, which includes just four drawings attributed to that master. What the show lacks in star power, though, it makes up for with a keen, all-encompassing look at life in the Dutch Republic during its Golden Age (which corresponds, roughly, to the 17th century). Seascapes assert naval dominance; genre scenes show bustling markets and tipsy taverngoers; botanical illustrations tell cautionary tales about economic speculation. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
- El Museo del Barrio: 'Testimonios: 100 Years of Popular Expression' (through May 6) The city's premier museum of Latin culture explores its holdings in urban folk art, so-called handicraft and other forms of vernacular expression and comes up with visual gold. Among the kaleidoscopic displays are Puerto Rican santos and the winsome cellophane animals, birds and insects of Gregorio Marzan (1906-97). Splendid textiles include Haitian voodoo banners; densely appliqued molas and the patchwork scenes called arpilleras, with which Chilean women kept hope alive for disappeared relatives during the regime of Augusto Pinochet. An intoxicating, if sometimes bittersweet, vitality is revealed. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Exquisite Corpses: Drawing and Disfiguration' (through July 9) This entertaining little show includes five products of the Surrealist parlor game ''exquisite corpse'' and rustles up other examples of distorted or disjointed figuration from MoMA's permanent collection. There's much here to amuse, provoke and titillate, though the curators don't include more performance-based forms of collaboration. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Print/Out' and 'Printin' ' (through May 14) ''Print/Out'' presents printed works by 40 artists and artist groups from the museum's permanent collection. Produced over the past two decades, most involve public modes of address borrowed from the worlds of advertizing and design and concepts promoting critical suspicion of mainstream media, culture and society. ''Printin','' a related print-focused exhibition, is full of surprises addressing multiple aspects of human experience. With fearless eclecticism, it ranges from a Krazy Kat cartoon by George Herriman to Puritan stocks cut from cardboard by Cady Noland. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Diego Rivera: Murals for the Museum of Modern Art' (through May 14) This show reunites five of the eight free-standing frescoes that Rivera made for a 1931-2 exhibition at MoMA. Some of these paintings seem ripped from current headlines. In ''The Uprising,'' protesting laborers are brutally suppressed by uniformed soldiers; the stratified New York cityscape of ''Frozen Assets'' tops a bank vault with a crowded homeless shelter. Timely as they are, they lack the multitudinous energy and narrative sweep of Rivera's permanently sited murals. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Cindy Sherman' (through June 11) Aided by ever-shifting arrays of costumes, wigs, makeup, props, masks and prosthetic body parts, the leading light of postmodern photo-based art spent nearly four decades turning photography against itself, laying waste to a lexicon of mostly female stereotypes and exposing both the tyranny and the inner lives of the images of women that bombard and shape us all at every turn. This retrospective could have been larger, more clearly organized and less familiar, but its strengths, like the achievement it honors, are undeniable. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
Museum of the City of New York: 'Cecil Beaton: The New York Years' (through April 22) A British dandy in the Wildean mold, Beaton photographed fashion for Vogue and Vanity Fair; made photographic portraits of rich, famous and glamorous people; drew and painted cartoons, caricatures, fashion illustrations and theatrical sets with a deft hand; published six volumes of his diaries; and won two Oscars for his costume and set designs, for the Hollywood movies ''Gigi'' and ''My Fair Lady.'' He spent much time in New York, and this entertaining exhibition surveys what he did here during his five-decade career. Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Johnson)
New Museum: 'The Ungovernables: 2012 New Museum Triennial' (through April 22) The second edition of this survey of young talent, organized by Eungie Joo, is more international than the last one, with artists from Asia and South America and collectives from Africa and the Middle East. Much of the work is made up of small, light formal gestures, unemphatic in tone and socially engaged, though in an unperturbed way that accommodates friendliness and wit. There is also a schedule of performances on- and off-site. An Israeli collective, Public Movement, will stage topical debates around town. Yet another collective, House of Natural Fiber, from Indonesia, plans to demonstrate technology for producing alcoholic beverages and electronic music simultaneously. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)
Noguchi Museum: 'Civic Action: A Vision for Long Island City' (through April 22) Several artists suggest their visions for the future of Long Island City, ranging from site-specific to silly. Natalie Jeremijenko's ''feral robots'' sniff out pollutants in contaminated soil, and she suggests hula hoops filled with wildflower seeds. Rirkrit Tiravanija proposes growing ''drivable'' grass along a section of Broadway, and Mary Miss focuses on four giant smokestacks that tower over the area and imagines them as an eco-feedback center registering environmental changes visible to the community. 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Schwendener)
- Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Whitney Biennial 2012' (through May 27) With remarkable clarity of vision, striking spatial intelligence and a generous stylistic inclusiveness, one of the best Whitney Biennials in recent memory confidently weaves together art objects and time-based art -- dance, theater and performance as well as film and video -- on a scale unprecedented in New York. So doing, this especially poetic incarnation also reinvents the museum's signature show and places future biennial curators in its debt, while offering the out-of-control, money-saturated art world a bit of redemption. Visit early and often. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)
Galleries: Uptown
'Approaching the Horizon: Important Japanese Prints From the Brewster Hanson Collection' (through April 13) Unfamiliar landscape prints by familiar names -- mainly Katsushika Hokusai and Utagawa Hiroshige -- dominate this lavish show, and their superb condition has kept the colors strikingly vivid. The grandly descriptive can turn grandly abstract on a dime, especially when Hokusai tackles waterfalls in vertical formats. Also noteworthy are the prints of his lesser-known contemporary Keisai Eisen, whose inclination to give tumbling water the solidity of nearby rocks has a bracing visionary force. Joan B. Mirviss, 39 East 78th Street, (212) 799-4021, mirviss.com. (Smith)
'Hats: An Anthology by Stephen Jones' (through April 15) This wide-ranging survey was assembled by one of the leading milliners in Britain and draws heavily on the incomparable collection of the Victoria and Albert Museum. It includes fascinating historical material; a survey of 20th- and 21st-century headgear at its most creative (and often most frivolous); and rather too many efforts by the show's organizer. But what's good is great: for example, a platterlike feather number from 18th-century London. Bard Graduate Center: Decorative Arts, Design History, Material Culture, 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3000, bgc.bard.edu. (Smith)
Galleries: 57th Street
- 'Silver and Gold in Ancient China' (through April 14) Ranging from a first-century B.C. silver harness ornament depicting a winged stallion to bevies of gold hair ornaments depicting dragons, birds and flowers from the 10th to 14th centuries (Liao, Northern Song and Song dynasties), this exhibition provides a rare in-depth at ceremonial and luxury objects. Forms, purposes, techniques and surface decoration vary tremendously and to illuminating effect. Standouts include a chased silver Liao dynasty funeral mask and a Song pictorial dish engraved with a marvelous landscape scene of scholars drifting in a boat. Instructive pleasures abound. J. J. Lally & Co. Oriental Art, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 371-3380, jjlally.com. (Smith)
Galleries: Chelsea
Sarah Charlesworth: 'Available Light' (through April 14) Of all the 1980s Pictures artists, few have turned out to be as dedicated as Sarah Charlesworth to photography's traditional methods or to the notion of beauty in the purely contemplative, almost neo-Classical sense. This serene show sums up her breadth of vision with an impressive, almost narrative sequence of images that encompass and blur the boundaries among postmodern appropriation, pristine close-ups of the studio and semi-abstract still lifes that meditate on optics and the glories of light and form. Susan Inglett, 522 West 24th Street, (212) 647-9111, inglettgallery.com. (Smith)
Paul Graham: 'The Present' (through April 21) This latest series by the British photographer Paul Graham was shot entirely in high-traffic areas of Manhattan (Penn Station, Times Square and 125th Street, among others). Its 16 diptychs and 2 triptychs have a simple premise: They show two or three views of the same intersection, taken seconds apart and from more or less the same angle. People go out of focus or disappear entirely and are replaced by new pedestrians doing pretty much the same thing. Cabs speed by, cellphone conversations end, attentions are diverted and street photography is reinvented for an age of perpetual distraction. The Pace Gallery and Pace/MacGill, 545 West 22nd Street, (212) 989-4258, thepacegallery.com. (Rosenberg)
- Ryan McNamara: 'Still' (through April 14) This resourceful performance artist, who is aided by an array of backdrops, costumes, props, materials and whatever ideas spring to anyone's mind, shows the environmental artwork that he wrought earlier in the exhibition by culling images from the photo sessions and decoupaging them, downsized and tinted, to whatever strikes his fancy. Elizabeth Dee Gallery, 545 West 20th Street, (212) 924-7545, now.elizabethdee.com. (Smith)
Catherine Opie: 'High School Football' (through April 14) In her latest series, ''High School Football,'' the photographer Catherine Opie doesn't seem to know what to do with this all-American, uber-masculine subject. Taken all over the country, her images run the gamut from action shots, to sentimental ''Friday Night Lights''-style views of the field and bleachers, to landscapes in which the game seems incidental. There are portraits of warrior-faced young men in their team uniforms, too, which turn out to be a pretty effective defense against emotional candor. Mitchell-Innes & Nash, 534 West 26th Street, (212) 744-7400, miandn.com. (Rosenberg)
- Terry Winters: 'Cricket Music, Tessellation Figures, & Notebook' (through April 14) Terry Winters's new, vigorously painted abstractions are ravishing. As if to defend against anti-hedonist judgment, Mr. Winters also offers a series of notebook collages combining scientific and quasi-scientific imagery in Matthew Marks's small exhibition space at 502 West 22nd Street. They are interesting, but the paintings of flickering, warping, spiraling and tunneling diamond patterns in hot and cool colors are the real trip. Matthew Marks Gallery, 522 and 502 West 22nd Street, (212) 243-0200, matthewmarks.com. (Johnson)
Galleries: Other
- 'The Brucennial 2012: Harderer. Betterer. Fasterer. Strongerer.' (through April 20) Organized by the collective of anonymous artists known as the Bruce High Quality Foundation, this jampacked, multifloor exhibition displays paintings, sculptures, videos and more by close to 400 artists. A radically inclusive survey of what artists in New York really are doing outside the filtering systems of galleries, museums and curators, it is by turns exhilarating, numbing and depressing. Don't miss it. 159 Bleecker Street, at Thompson Street, Greenwich Village, thebrucehighqualityfoundation.com. (Johnson)
Oded Hirsch: 'nothing new' (through April 22) In the mesmerizing video art of Oded Hirsch, who is now having his first solo exhibition in New York, the communal labors of the kibbutz become haunting performances. In the 10-minute ''50 Blue'' (2009), a young man struggles to push an older man in a wheelchair through a swampy landscape to an elevated viewing platform. And in ''Tochka'' (2010), men in blue shirts and white peasant hats cross a field and set to work on a mysterious construction project, which turns out to be a bridge to nowhere. Thierry Goldberg, 103 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, (212) 967-2260, thierrygoldberg.com. (Rosenberg)
Thomas Kovachevich: 'Alpenglow' (through April 15) Named for the glowing skies that accrue near mountains because of extremes of temperature and humidity, this show is dominated by three large striped wall pieces made of nothing but white packing tape and brightly colored grosgrain ribbon. They implicate the gallery space by adjusting noticeably to prevailing climatic conditions: the tape curls or uncurls, and that makes all the difference. Rarely has the divide between Minimalism and Post-Minimalism -- or Donald Judd and John Cage -- been finessed with such elegance and economy. Showroom 170, 170 Suffolk Street, near Houston Street, Lower East Side, (646) 559-2856, showroom170.com. (Smith)
Sam Moyer: 'Slack Tide' (through April 22) Mr. Moyer's beguiling, expansive pictures oscillate astutely between the sublime and the decorative. Mounted on panels whose dimensions range from about 5 to 10 feet, they resemble much-enlarged, black-and-white, aerial photographs of mountainous topographies, possibly on another planet. They also are like giant, dark photocopies of profusely wrinkled bed sheets. But they are entirely made by hand. Rachel Uffner Gallery, 47 Orchard Street, near Hester Street, Lower East Side, (212) 274-0064, racheluffnergallery.com. (Ken Johnson)
Frances Stark: 'Osservate, Leggete Con Me' (through April 21) Conversations about art, movies, literature, philosophy and sex, and expressions of excitement accompanying simultaneous masturbation -- all transcribed from Skype dialogues between Ms. Stark and anonymous Italian men -- are video-projected in two separate rooms, as lines of text accompanied by music. Prepare to be teased. Gavin Brown, 620 Greenwich Street, at Leroy Street, West Village, (212) 627-5258, gavinbrown.biz. (Johnson)
Public Art
Josephine Meckseper: 'Manhattan Oil Project' (through May 6) Two pristine, full-size oil pumps seemingly toiling away in an empty lot of the theater district are intended to raise alarm about waste and the environment, but mainly they exemplify Surrealist cliche, highlight public sculpture's all-too frequent role as light entertainment and -- highlighted with red on black -- are presentable enough to appear on the Broadway stage, perhaps in an update of ''Oklahoma!'' Eighth Avenue, at 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 966-0193, artproductionfund.org. (Smith)
Out of Town
- 'Colorful Realm: Japanese Bird-and-Flower Paintings by Ito Jakuchu (1716-1800)' (through April 29) This miraculous exhibition presents for the first time outside of Japan all the pieces of a famous suite of scroll paintings that Ito Jakuchu (1716-1800) created for a monastery in Kyoto. Three representing enthroned Buddhist deities are comparatively dull, but the 30 depicting flowers, trees, birds, insects, seashells and much more are astoundingly beautiful. Formally virtuosic and magically realistic, they will leave you helplessly enchanted. National Gallery of Art, Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Johnson)
Neuberger Museum of Art: 'American Vanguards: Graham, Davis, Gorky, de Kooning, and Their Circle, 1927-1942' (through April 29) This exhibition, organized by the Addison Gallery of American Art in Andover, Mass., reunites the Four Musketeers of New York painting: John Graham, Arshile Gorky, Stuart Davis and Willem de Kooning. For a time -- the 1930s, give or take a few years -- these artists linked arms to defend modern American art against the dreariness and insularity of the Depression. One might see this show as an expansion of the first few galleries of the Museum of Modern Art's recent de Kooning retrospective, with their eerie still lifes and fidgety figure paintings that seemed to collapse abstraction and representation. Purchase College, State University of New York, 735 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, N.Y., (914) 251-6100, neuberger.org. (Rosenberg)
Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts: 'Henry Ossawa Tanner: Modern Spirit' (through April 15) Henry Ossawa Tanner (1859-1937) was the first African-American artist to achieve international fame in modern times. After permanently expatriating to France in 1891, he found success as a painter of luminous pictures of biblical subjects. In this informative survey of his career, one piece stands out: an Annunciation in which the angel Gabriel appears to Mary as a burst of yellow light. It is a painting of amazing grace. 118 North Broad Street, Philadelphia, (215) 972-7600, pafa.org. (Johnson)
- Philadelphia Museum of Art: 'Zoe Strauss: Ten Years' (through April 22) In 2001 the artist Zoe Strauss came up with an unusual idea for an exhibition. It would take place under an elevated section of Interstate 95, in her home city, Philadelphia, and would consist of photographs mounted on the columns that supported the highway. It would be a recurring event, appearing yearly over a decade, and would be free and accessible to the public. That series, ''I-95,'' is at the core of ''Zoe Strauss: Ten Years,'' an engaging, parameter-expanding exhibition at the Philadelphia Museum of Art and on billboards around the city. In it, the highway links sweeping literary ambition and local interest, lyrical and documentary photography, portraiture and the urban landscape. Benjamin Franklin Parkway and 26th Street, (215) 763-8100, philamuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
- Philadelphia Museum of Art: 'Van Gogh Up Close' (through May 6) Nature both inspired van Gogh's extraordinary art and calmed his perpetually jangled nerves, and this modest yet groundbreaking show of 45 often small, unfamiliar canvases -- devoted almost entirely to landscapes -- examines his crucial connection to its bounty. The selection cuts a narrow, well-organized path through his art, examining the terrains he painted, the often close-up viewpoints he used and the shifting topographies of his paint textures, leading us to the fullness of his achievement along a fresh and eye-opening route. 26th Street at Benjamin Franklin Parkway, (215) 763-8100, philamuseum.org. (Smith)
Last Chance
Frick Collection: 'A Passion for Drawings: Charles Ryskamp's Bequest to the Frick Collection' (closes on Sunday) Modern museums have their origins in the German wunderkammer, or cabinet of curiosities: collections of objects assembled by European aristocrats. The cabinet at the Frick doesn't hold the same range of marvels, but the current show of 10 drawings donated by Charles Ryskamp, a former Frick director, functions almost like a wunderkammer. There is a botanical watercolor by Pierre-Joseph Redoute, who worked for Marie Antoinette before the French Revolution and Empress Josephine afterward; a watercolor by Eugene Delacroix from his first journey to North Africa; a William Blake drawing created during a seance; and George Stubbs's portrait of Warren Hastings, first governor-general of India under British colonial rule, as Hastings was being prosecuted for corruption. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Schwendener)
Guy Goodwin: 'Recent Works' (closes on Sunday) The latest paintings by this veteran abstractionist are laugh-out-loud beautiful. They amp up his longtime interest in bold, roughly painted motifs and objectlike impact through the use of searing color and cut-out (and cut-into) laminated cardboard, with obsessive stapling doing double time as brushwork. More comedic than existential, they make a place for themselves in the tradition of raucous American abstraction that could be said to begin with Stuart Davis and George Sugarman. Brennan & Griffin, 55 Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 227-0115, brennangriffin.com. (Smith)
Jenny Holzer: 'Endgame' (closes on Saturday) This bluntly provocative show presents the first paintings Ms. Holzer has made since her student years in the mid-1970s. They resemble her well-known silk-screen copies of United States government-censored documents related to war in the Middle East. But here the redacted areas are painted to resemble types of Modernist abstraction, implicitly indicting aesthetics-first art for its political obliviousness. It is a tired conceptual gambit. Skarstedt Gallery, 20 East 79th Street, (212) 737-2060, skarstedt.com. (Johnson)
'Kokon Biannual: Spring 2012' (closes on Tuesday) The works here range in size from two six-panel screens by the great Kano Tan'yu (1602-74) that make brilliant proto-Minimalist use of empty space, to a rectangular stoneware dish decorated with bellflowers and pampas grasses by the inimitable Ogata Kenzan (1663-1743). A 14th-century star mandala and a fan with a painted landscape by Tan'yu's grandfather, Kano Eitoku (1543-90), are among the other rarities in this inspiring show, made all the more so by the gallery's elegantly serene design. Koichi Yanagi Oriental Fine Arts, 17 East 71st Street, (212) 744-5577, jada-ny.org. (Smith)
- MoMA PS1: 'Henry Taylor' (closes on Monday) Mr. Taylor, who lives in Los Angeles, paints fast, loose and sensuously on canvases great and small. Portraiture is his work's center of gravity, African-American life his subject. With exuberant generosity, he portrays friends, relatives, acquaintances from the art world and off the street and heroes of sports and politics. Along the way, he takes in downbeat cityscapes patrolled by cop cars and envisions allegories of spiritual trauma in the Land of the Free. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Johnson)
'A Tribute to Forrest Bess' (closes on Wednesday) Occasioned by the sale of a cache of paintings bequeathed to a Houston hospital, this exhibition of 43 typically small, intense, richly symbolic works by Forrest Bess (1911-77), an eccentric visionary painter-fisherman, provides an inadvertently encompassing view of his artistic strengths, weaknesses and vagaries. A 48-minute film from 1998 recounts his tormented life and is punctuated with glimpses of additional, often better, efforts. Although up and down, this is the greatest number of Bess paintings to be shown in New York since 1988. Christie's, 1230 Avenue of the Americas, at 49th Street, (212) 636-2000, christies.com. (Smith)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'THE BRUCENNIAL 2012: HARDERER. BETTERER. FASTERER. STRONGERER.' (through April 20) Organized by the collective of anonymous artists known as the Bruce High Quality Foundation, this jampacked, multifloor exhibition, above, displays paintings, sculptures, videos and more by close to 400 artists. A radically inclusive survey of what artists really are doing outside the filtering systems of galleries, museums and curators, it is by turns exhilarating, numbing and depressing. Don't miss it. 159 Bleecker Street, at Thompson Street, Greenwich Village, thebrucehighqualityfoundation.com. (Ken Johnson) (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIE DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); SCULPTURE (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); PAINTING (79%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); DELHI, INDIA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); INDIA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (76%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012



199 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'SURVIVING PROGRESS'; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: When Human Advancement Backfires

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
No one carries a placard scrawled with ''The end is near'' in the nonfiction movie ''Surviving Progress,'' as people sometimes do in New Yorker cartoons. Its assembly of experts is far too smart and savvy, too heavily armed with facts, figures and the legacy of the Enlightenment to be dismissed as random kooks, well, except by their political and ideological critics. Even so, this 86-minute breeze through civilization, its history and self-made discontents from the Canadian filmmakers Mathieu Roy and Harold Crooks -- which concentrates on the present and future costs of familiar environmental and economic catastrophes -- is very much a doomsday documentary. 
The germ for the movie is ''A Short History of Progress,'' which, as the name announces, is an exceedingly compressed examination of human times from the Canadian novelist and historian Ronald Wright. (The American paperback runs 211 pages, 53 of them for notes.) Specifically the book charts the rise and fall of societies -- in the Stone Age, on Easter Island, the Romans and the Maya -- seeing a cautionary tale about progress in their successes and declines. In the Old Stone Age, to take one bleak example, humans so perfected their hunting tools and techniques, like running a herd of mammoths over a cliff instead of spearing a few for dinner, that they drove their prey into extinction. The geoscientist Paul S. Martin called this extinction theory the overkill hypothesis.
Overkill is one way to describe a lot of the behaviors dissected in ''Surviving Progress,'' as its some two dozen talking-head interviews make distressingly clear. Among the more famous of these heads are the primatologist Jane Goodall, the physicist Stephen Hawking and the writer Margaret Atwood, who's the subject of another new documentary, ''Payback,'' about debts and their fallout. Among the most informative are the blunt-speaking economist Michael Hudson and the fast-talking energy expert Vaclav Smil, who's minimized the importance of global warming in the past but here mainly discusses consumption, stating ''We have to use less.'' In a nice personal touch, Mr. Smil singles out the high price of renovating a bathroom, an example, he says with a smile, drawn from his own life.
Mr. Smil and many of the other authorities are entertaining, often persuasive and surprisingly calm and collected for folks discussing the end of the world as we know it. It's too bad, though, that the most of these talking heads are male and from North America (or Europe), an observation that has nothing to do with political correctness and everything to do with the movie's topic. Environmental and economic calamities never remain geographically confined, as the filmmakers detail in sections that focus, if superficially, on China, Africa and South America. However eloquent, inhabitants of these parts of the world are underrepresented and, at times, badly represented, as with a Chinese tour guide who adds only an unhappy caricature to the mix.
Mr. Roy and Mr. Crooks deviate somewhat from Mr. Wright's book, but the documentary hews pretty much to the same story line: We're doomed, doomed, doomed. Midway through the movie I scribbled, ''I feel very depressed'' in my notebook, a confession that says something about me, but also gets at the documentary's successes and failures. Zippily edited and nicely photographed, ''Surviving Progress'' is a fine summary of a hot ugly mess. But like too many short documentaries, it can't do justice to its complex topic or finally to those of us watching. Because, while ''Surviving Progress'' puts forth a lot of general advice (stop the deforestation of the Amazon), it offers little in terms of real, practical, graspable solutions. People need hope; moviegoers do too.
Surviving Progress
Opens on Friday in Manhattan.
Written and directed by Mathieu Roy and Harold Crooks, based on the book ''A Short History of Progress'' by Ronald Wright; director of photography, Mario Janelle; edited by Louis-Martin Paradis; music by Patrick Watson and Michael Ramsey; produced by Daniel Louis and Denise Robert; released by First Run Features. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes. This film is not rated.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The booming city Chongqing, China, in ''Surviving Progress.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY FIRST RUN FEATURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); WRITERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); HISTORY (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (67%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (64%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (58%); PRIMATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHONGQING, CHINA (50%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (76%) CHINA (92%); CANADA (90%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Surviving Progress (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012



200 of 1083 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: From Philanthropist to Public Enemy in Georgia

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY

 BODY:
TBILISI, Georgia -- On a hill overlooking this ancient city, Georgia's richest man has built himself a glassy, postmodern fortress, its interior a sleek Escher construction of orbs and optical illusions.
The billionaire's balcony offers a view of a snaking river and, across it, the futuristic, egg-shaped blue glass dome atop the residence of his former friend, President Mikheil Saakashvili. Though both men's palaces feature see-through walkways suspended at great height, any resemblance is purely coincidental.
''He wanted to come, but I didn't invite him,'' said Bidzina Ivanishvili, 56, whose net worth Forbes has estimated at $6.4 billion. He was striding past wall-size canvases by Roy Lichtenstein and Damien Hirst, high-quality copies he substituted for the originals late last year when, as he put it, ''my insurance company told me it had begun to smell bad and I started to take things out.'' 
Mr. Ivanishvili, a reclusive philanthropist whom the president has dubbed the Count of Monte Cristo, sent tremors through Georgia's political scene when he announced in October that he would use his fortune to oppose the government and finance his own political ambitions. It was a shocking challenge to Mr. Saakashvili, who has comfortably dominated politics here since the 2008 war with Russia, and the authorities took immediate steps to stop him.
The conflict, which already had the attributes of a 19th-century novel, seemed to harden this week into a protracted stare-down between the two men. On Wednesday, the authorities upheld their earlier decision to revoke Mr. Ivanishvili's Georgian citizenship, which bars him from running for office or financing parties ahead of parliamentary elections in October. Their position seemed to soften late on Thursday, when lawmakers proposed amending the Constitution to allow noncitizens to run for office.
Mr. Ivanishvili invited Tbilisi's diplomatic corps to his headquarters on Thursday to condemn the citizenship decision.
''I don't think this has much effect on me, but it has a great effect on Saakashvili,'' Mr. Ivanishvili said in an interview. ''He will lose face. The euphoria which still exists in America and Europe, where he is trying to fool them into thinking he is a democrat, that euphoria will disappear.''
Mr. Ivanishvili, 56, has long been the subject of rumor in this city. After making his fortune in the Russian metal and banking industries, he returned to his home village of Chorvila and began providing his neighbors with houses, roads and cash, like a feudal lord. His legend was enhanced by tales about his two albino sons -- the eldest, Bera, is a famous rapper -- and a menagerie said to include zebras and penguins.
For years, he spread his Russian-earned wealth around lavishly -- and anonymously. Mr. Ivanishvili was the mysterious buyer who paid $95.2 million for Picasso's ''Dora Maar With Cat'' at Sotheby's in 2006, sending art dealers into a tizzy. In Georgia, he anonymously financed church projects like the gold-domed cathedral that towers over the capital, and government ones like renovations of 500 schools, money to elevate state salaries and boots for the army. (''They were running around in slippers,'' he said.)
Mr. Ivanishvili said his ties to Mr. Saakashvili were finally severed during a phone call in January 2008, when he told the president never to call him again. He said he took great pains to conceal his political plans, speaking in whispers with his wife even at home out of fear that he was under surveillance. Twice, he said, he arranged flights out of the country and then canceled them.
''The decision was this: I needed to completely destroy my world view relating to philanthropy, as well as my relationship with him, and the fact that for 55 years I have been asserting that I would not go into politics,'' he said. ''I tormented myself a great deal.''
Georgia's government acted immediately after Mr. Ivanishvili's bombshell.
Just four days later, the billionaire was stripped of his Georgian citizenship, on the basis that he had never informed officials that he was a citizen of France. (Georgian law permits dual citizenship only with special permission. Mr. Ivanishvili also had Russian citizenship, though he renounced it in December.) Two weeks later, the central bank seized millions of dollars as part of a money-laundering investigation of his bank. The governing party then introduced limits on corporate campaign financing, which would prevent his companies from bankrolling candidates.
Giga Bokeria, Mr. Saakashvili's national security adviser, said he was not worried that Mr. Ivanishvili would buy the votes of Georgian citizens, but that unlimited use of his wealth -- it amounts to more than a third of the country's gross domestic product, by some measures -- ''will corrupt the political process as such.'' He said Georgia's opposition was just beginning to embrace healthy practices like conceding after an electoral defeat.
''A new political culture was appearing, and that includes the idea that parties should stand on their own feet, and now this huge guy financially appears on the landscape,'' Mr. Bokeria said. ''Now all these groups, they are not looking to build their own support, it's just a big oligarch guy -- he calls the shots and he orders the melody.''
The government has also charged that Mr. Ivanishvili is acting in the interest of Russia, offering as evidence his extensive holdings there: $1.1 billion, by his own account, which he says he is trying to liquidate. Mr. Saakashvili rarely mentions Mr. Ivanishvili by name, but he alludes to him frequently, warning of ''new political forces'' and ''forces of darkness'' and an infusion of Russian cash.
Among Mr. Ivanishvili's responses has been to adopt a government strategy, hiring lobbyists in Washington to spread the word about the measures being taken against him. Elements of the case -- like aggressive questioning of opposition activists by a state auditing agency -- have drawn rebukes from American officials.
''For years, on our money, Saakashvili had strong lobbyists, and played with our money, and tried to lie and show a facade of democracy,'' Mr. Ivanishvili said. ''I can also permit myself to hire some lobbying companies, in America among other places, and we can try to show the real picture.''
Mr. Ivanishvili's political platform is vague and, in some respects, grandiose. He proposes to leave the office of prime minister after two years, a period he says is sufficient to create an independent court system and purge what he calls ''elite corruption.'' Asked about whether the standoff would culminate in street demonstrations, he answered with serene confidence.
''If I go out, I can gather 100,000 people in three minutes, but I don't want to,'' he said. ''Until the elections. After the elections, if there is falsification, we will defend our votes.''
Mr. Ivanishvili's parliamentary coalition, Ivanishvili-Georgian Dream, hopes to win half the votes in October elections. A poll performed by the National Democratic Institute and leaked to the Georgian news media last month suggested that it would fall well short of that, giving Mr. Saakashvili's party 47 percent of the vote and Mr. Ivanishvili's coalition trailing with 10 percent. But the same poll showed that the public overwhelmingly supports Mr. Ivanishvili in his fight to regain his citizenship.
People approached on the street this week were iffy about Mr. Ivanishvili as a politician, but they raved about his philanthropic work, his support for museums and theaters, and the riches granted to his neighbors in Chorvila.
Nodar Melikidze, 48, who is unemployed, said Mr. Ivanishvili had paid for one of his friends' cancer treatments.
Lela, 54, said Wednesday's decision about the citizenship left a sour taste in her mouth. ''They showed they are very confident in themselves, and they don't care about people's opinions,'' said Lela, who would not give her last name for fear of repercussions. ''They have washed their hands of us. Many people were not going to vote for Ivanishvili, but by taking this decision the government showed it ignored people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bidzina Ivanishvili, Georgia's richest man, at his offices overlooking the capital, Tbilisi. In recent months he has become a fierce critic of the government. (A4)
 A glassy fortress acts as home and business center for the billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili. The complex offers views of Tbilisi and of the palace of President Mikheil Saakashvili, now Mr. Ivanishvili's political rival. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTYNA MIELNIKIEWICZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CITIZENSHIP (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); RAP MUSIC (60%); CELEBRITIES (60%); HIP HOP CULTURE (60%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012

 
