

601 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Union Leader Urges Companies to Forge Alliance With Labor

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
John J. Sweeney used his first anniversary as president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. to tell business leaders that the labor movement wants to help American businesses compete but will also continue pressuring companies to give workers more money, training and power.
Speaking on Friday in New York to a group called Business for Social Responsibility, Mr. Sweeney urged companies to promote both competitiveness and social equity by taking the high road -- by treating workers as assets, by training them and cooperating with them -- instead of taking the low road of squeezing down wages and casting off workers. 
 Attacked by conservative critics for being anti-business and giving short shrift to the importance of economic growth, Mr. Sweeney expounded more than ever before about labor's desire to cooperate to increase corporate competitiveness.
"We want to help American business compete in the world and create new wealth for your shareholders and your employees," Mr. Sweeney said. "We want to work with you to bake a larger pie which all Americans can share and not just argue with you about how to divide the existing pie. It is time for business and labor to see each other as natural allies, not natural enemies."
In his speech, to several hundred executives, Mr. Sweeney added: "American labor no longer takes the position that quality, productivity and profits are not our business. They are our business. They are our jobs. And, indeed, they are our livelihoods."
If corporations are intent on improving quality and service, he said, they should give workers a greater say in decisions making because that will foster a more dedicated, cooperative work force.
Soon after Mr. Sweeney won the first contested race for the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s presidency, he told corporate executives that he wanted to build bridges to business but was also ready to battle with them if they treated workers shabbily.
In his speech, he took a hard line against companies that he said took the low road. He urged executives in the audience, from companies, like Levi Strauss and Stride Rite, that are known for treating their workers well, to pressure other companies to join them in providing health insurance and extensive training.
"The standards of corporate behavior are much too low because corporate America has too much power, and the rest of us have too little," he said. "A stronger movement of working Americans can help to correct the imbalance."
He pointed to results of an A.F.L.-C.I.O.-sponsored poll indicating that 83 percent of Americans, union and nonunion, say corporations care more about profits than about being fair and loyal to their workers.
Mr. Sweeney said it would be smart business for companies that are already unionized to criticize competitors that dismiss workers who back unionization drives. He noted that a study by a Harvard Law School professor, Paul Weiler, found that 10,000 workers lost their jobs each year for trying to organize unions.
He also told the executives that if they were serious about being socially responsible, they should make sure the contractors that clean their buildings pay workers a living wage and provide health insurance and good working conditions.
Seeking to forge an alliance with companies in Business for Social Responsibility, he cautioned them that competitors who did not provide health insurance or pensions were making it hard for responsible companies to compete. "Together," he said, "we can raise the standards of competition, so that you can take the high road with confidence."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: LEVI STRAUSS & CO (52%); AFL-CIO (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LABOR UNIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (73%); CONSERVATISM (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; SWEENEY, JOHN J JOHN J SWEENEY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



602 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1765 words

HEADLINE: BIll Clinton for President

 BODY:
Today we endorse the re-election of President Bill Clinton. Readers of this page will know that we share many of the public's concerns about Mr. Clinton's resoluteness and sensitivity to ethical standards in government. But our endorsement is delivered in the unequivocal confidence that he is the best candidate in the field and in the belief that because he has grown in the job he can build on the successes of his first term while correcting its defects. Toward that end, our endorsement comes with a set of recommendations for how Mr. Clinton can, before Election Day, address voters' concerns about his personality and character.
First, however, we want to outline the case for Mr. Clinton's re-election based on policy, performance and growth in office. Our view of Mr. Clinton mirrors that of millions of swing voters who are choosing him over Bob Dole and Ross Perot. He is clearly the candidate of hope and progress in this race. No one can doubt his commitment to using government to spur the economy, protect the environment, defend the cities, promote racial justice and combine compassion with fiscal prudence. 
 The choice of Mr. Clinton is easier because of Mr. Dole's halting campaign. Neither his 15 percent tax cut nor his wild charge that newspapers have pulled their punches on Whitewater stands the test of logic or represents Mr. Dole at his best. He is a good man whose service on behalf of the nation, in the Army and the Senate, will be well remembered. Indeed, many voters are dismayed that Mr. Dole has strayed from his moderate record and look to Mr. Clinton as a protection from Republican excess.
 
A Revived Party and Presidency
But a vote for Mr. Clinton is more than a defensive measure. He is clearly the most skilled navigator of today's contrary political seas. Even his most notable defeat, on health care, arose from his correct judgment that Americans want universal, affordable coverage. Mr. Clinton understands that the electorate makes contradictory demands. Voters are sullen and suspicious about government, yet anxious that it serve them. Americans have grown conservative, yet they want their interests and values protected. Mr. Clinton's Presidency has tacked this way and that, in part because it had to. He always calculates how far he can go and at what cost. We have disagreed with some of his calculations, but over the past two years he has not only revived his Presidency, he has also refashioned the Democratic Party's approach to government.
Some argue wrongly that Mr. Clinton has had no sense of direction. In several areas, though, he has picked his destinations and risked his political interests to get there. The pattern of the last two years provides a template for success in a second term.
 
The Economy
The campaign has produced no more fallacious statement than Mr. Dole's assertion that the nation has the worst economy in 100 years. The real situation is that Mr. Clinton's drive toward a balanced budget has helped keep interest rates low and promote an economic expansion now in its fifth year. Mr. Clinton stood up to the spendthrifts in his own party at the start of his term. He curbed the Federal deficits that had piled up over years of Republican Presidents proclaiming devotion to fiscal conservatism. Yet he wisely opposed a balanced-budget amendment that would tie a President's hands in a military or fiscal emergency.
Mr. Clinton raised taxes primarily on those most able to pay while pushing through one of the most important initiatives of his Presidency, the earned-income tax credit, which channeled billions of dollars into the poorest segment of the work force and lifted more than three million people out of poverty.
 
International Trade
Today both parties are driven by differences over trade, which accounts for a third of the economy. The temptation to demagogue about job flight is ever present. Yet Mr. Clinton has performed with a tough sense of purpose, helping to educate the public that foreign competition cannot be wished away. Although accused of unwillingness to take on his own party's interest groups, Mr. Clinton bucked the Democratic leadership to secure the free-trade agreement with Canada and Mexico. He then went on to support the global trade agreement that created the World Trade Organization. At the same time, he has been more aggressive in pressing Japan and China to open their markets.
 
Foreign Policy
In 1993, Mr. Clinton lacked experience in foreign affairs, and he stumbled early by confusing consultation with leadership when it came to Bosnia. Now he is regarded internationally as a leader with a sophisticated grasp of a superpower's obligation to help the world manage its conflicts and economic contests.
The hallmark of this new sophistication is Mr. Clinton's timing of those moments when American prestige and resources can be decisive. His decision to throw political and financial support behind the election of President Boris Yeltsin in Russia, then mired at below 10 percent in the polls, was a successful, high-risk intervention.
In applying American prestige to the Middle East process of reconciliation, Mr. Clinton was building on a bipartisan tradition. But without his intense efforts, the process would have foundered. In Bosnia, Mr. Clinton ignored persistent bad advice about how to use force, invented a peace process from the most unpromising situation and finally stabilized a war that posed a security threat to Europe and endangered NATO.
 
Health Care
 In the field of health care, the Clinton Administration failed through a toxic combination of hubris and secrecy. But Mr. Clinton was headed in the right direction. Americans need and want a health care system that covers everyone and keeps costs down through competition. If Mr. Clinton is elected, the journey toward this valuable goal will continue. If Mr. Dole is elected, that journey will end, and the assault on Medicaid and Medicare will continue. Instead of quality care for all, the country will move toward making Medicare a second-class program for the elderly poor and toward a health-insurance system favoring the affluent and the healthy.
 
Political Values
The last few years have seen an ugliness of tone in American politics toward the poor, minorities and immigrants. Mr. Clinton has been the most important voice for conciliation, but even he has bowed to expediency. We opposed his signing of the welfare bill, but he has promised to ease its unfair attacks on the poor and legal immigrants. His lack of backbone on this issue was at least balanced by a courageous stand in favor of affirmative action.
In sharp contrast to the two previous Administrations, Mr. Clinton has used common sense on guns. By supporting local police, he erased the Republicans' unearned copyright on the crime issue. He has defended choice on abortion, and his re-election will help produce a Supreme Court that protects this and other freedoms.
Another value asserted by Mr. Clinton is reverence for the earth. Electing the Democratic ticket will return to office Vice President Al Gore, the most knowledgeable and consistent defender of the environment in Washington. He converted Mr. Clinton from a relaxed to a muscular guardian of clean air and water. In a second term, they can generate a new wave of sensible environmental laws.
 
Ethics
Obviously, we could not ask our readers to vote for Mr. Clinton without addressing his most significant leadership problem. Many Americans do not trust him or believe him to be a person of character. We do not dodge that issue, nor should Mr. Clinton. Indeed, he must view it as a prime opportunity of his second term. A fraction of the electorate, of course, will never forgive his reputation for philandering. But he can reclaim the trust of the great majority by demonstrating a zeal for financial integrity and for protecting the machinery of justice from politics. Toward that end, we urge Mr. Clinton to close the campaign with a series of dramatic gestures.
First, he should accept the Republican dare and pledge not to pardon anyone convicted in prosecutions arising from Whitewater, the White House travel office firings, the mishandling of F.B.I. files, or the raising of funds for the 1996 campaign. He should promise that he, the First Lady and every member of the executive branch will cooperate with all investigations, whether they are from the Justice Department, special prosecutors or Congressional committees.
Next, Mr. Clinton should deal with his party's Indonesian fund-raising scandal by acknowledging that both parties' financial practices are wrong even if not illegal. He can then credibly pledge to recapture one of the main themes of his 1992 campaign. We saluted then and we still believe in the stirring call in his inaugural address "to reform our politics so that power and privilege no longer shout down the voice of the people."
The Democratic Congressional leadership talked him into shelving campaign finance legislation because their members wanted to keep lapping up contributions from political-action committees. Now is the moment for Mr. Clinton to renew his promise by sponsoring campaign laws that end foreign donations and "soft money" dodges and that give all credible candidates a level playing field when it comes to mail and advertising.
Such dramatic pledges would do more than defuse the criticisms of Mr. Perot and Mr. Dole in the closing days of this election. They would also enlist public opinion on Mr. Clinton's side as a protection against Republican excesses in the Congressional investigations that are coming whether Mr. Clinton opts for openness or sticks to the hunker-down strategy that has done his Administration such damage.
More important, Mr. Clinton would be demonstrating that he regards winning on Nov. 5 as a necessary prelude to the important work that lies ahead. Mr. Clinton's original vision of a country where no one waits for health care, social justice and economic opportunity to trickle down is still valid. His education in the leadership burden that rests on the world's strongest nation and its President has proceeded more rapidly and successfully than anyone could have dared hope. The Presidency he once dreamed is still within his reach if he brings the requisite integrity to the next four years. By adding self discipline to vision, he can build on the achievements he has already made and make a fair bid to leave Washington in 2001 as one of the notable Presidents of the 20th century.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ENDORSEMENTS; ELECTION ISSUES; ETHICS; EDITORIALS ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ETHICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



603 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1712 words

HEADLINE: A G.O.P. Stronghold Starts to Lean Toward the Democrats

SERIES: AMERICAN PROFILES -- New Hampshire

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER 

DATELINE: DERRY, N.H.

 BODY:
The sugar maples that line the roads here are a blaze of gold and red. The farmhouse where Robert Frost once lived and wrote poems has closed to visitors for the season. So has Clam Haven, the seafood shack down the road.
Still, this fall is not like all the others in Derry. For the first time in 20 years, the Democrats have set up a campaign office in what has been a staunchly Republican town in this staunchly Republican state. 
 "Derry has been a black hole for the Democrats," Michael King, the chairman of the New Hampshire Democratic Party, said at a recent celebration marking the opening of the new headquarters. "Democrats here have been afraid to come out of their houses."
Not this year.
Dozens of Democrats, and even some Republicans reveled on Main Street at the balloon-festooned campaign office in what used to be the Woman's Shop, next to J. J. Pizza. They wore buttons proclaiming their allegiance to Bill Clinton -- and Jeanne Shaheen.
Mrs. Shaheen, a three-term State Senator with a reputation as a pragmatist, is running for Governor.
The latest poll by the University of New Hampshire Survey Center for WMUR-TV in Manchester, released earlier this month, gave her a 19-point lead over her conservative Republican opponent, Ovide Lamontagne, the former chairman of the State Board of Education. The same poll showed that 30 percent of Republicans support Mrs. Shaheen. If she wins, she will be the first Democratic Governor in New Hampshire since 1980 -- and the first elected female chief executive in the state's history.
Rick and Susan Katzenberg, who are Democrats, recently gave a party for Mrs. Shaheen at their house in Amherst and most of the 80 guests were Republican. The Katzenbergs were delighted.
"We've never had this many Republicans in the house before," Mrs. Katzenberg, an antiques dealer, said as neighbors chatted over coffee in her living room.
Mrs. Shaheen's standing just over a week from Election Day parallels what is happening in national races in New Hampshire. Bill Clinton has a substantial lead here over his Republican challenger, Bob Dole, and Democrats are in competitive races for the Senate and the House.
This is New Hampshire? Some things used to be certain here. The leaves would change in fall. There would be no sales or income tax. Republicans, for the most part, would dominate the political scene.
"For the first time in history, this is a two-party state," said Dayton Duncan, who was the chief of staff to the last Democratic governor, Hugh Gallen, elected in 1978. "It used to be that the most Democrats could hope for was one or two races near the top that might be competitive. This is the first time Democrats can compete everywhere."
The turn of events for Democrats here has stunned John Ellis, a columnist for The Boston Globe, who has followed New Hampshire politics for 25 years. "It runs counter to everything I know," he said. "It's as if you told me Fidelity is in the business of making cars. I'd say, 'No, they're in the business of selling mutual funds.' I can't believe any of them can win in New Hampshire. It would be like Utah electing Kennedy and Dukakis."
To be sure, no one is ready to predict fundamental, or long-term change in New Hampshire.
"I don't think this is a repudiation of the Republican Party," said R. Kelly Myers, director of the University of New Hampshire Survey Center. "I don't think we're in the midst of a Democratic tide here. What we have is a unique set of circumstances befitting the Democratic Party. The economy has turned around sharply since Clinton took office. It's like night and day here. The President can take the credit for that. And Dole is not an attractive alternative."
As for the Governor's race, Mr. Kelly said, Mrs. Shaheen is a moderate at a time when moderate candidates are succeeding.
"She's running a good campaign," he said. "If you look at previous elections, the Democratic candidates in New Hampshire were not particularly attractive.
"Come back in two years. The Republicans could own everything again. And don't count them out yet -- even this year."
Tom Rath, a lawyer from Concord and longtime Republican political analyst, explained the developments this way: "Republicans here and all around the country are suffering an enthusiasm deficit. I don't think New Hampshire is changing. We have always been a centrist state. I don't think this means that the ideology or the political leanings of the state have actually changed. It's more a commentary that party identification is less important than it was."
He said that the bitter Republican Presidential primary turned off a lot of moderate Republicans. And the Granite State simply has never warmed up to Bob Dole.
Tom Marquis, a book distributor from Nashua, and a Republican, said that he will vote for Mr. Dole. But his support is hardly enthusiastic.
"I'd rather vote for three million people other than Bob Dole," he said, adding that he has ruled out Bill Clinton as untrustworthy.
In a state that fiercely proclaims its independence with the motto "Live Free or Die" on its license plates, one of the keys to Mrs. Shaheen's success was her decision to take "the pledge," as it is known, to oppose any income or sales tax. In doing so, she may have learned from the experience of a predecessor, Deborah Arnesen, a Democrat, who campaigned as the "tax lady" in the 1992 gubernatorial race and advocated a broad-based tax. She lost to Stephen Merrill, a Republican who is not seeking re-election. Ms. Arnesen is now in a close House race.
There is another explanation: The inclination of women to support Democrats nationally this year extends to New Hampshire. The University of New Hampshire poll shows Mrs. Shaheen, 49 and the mother of three, leading among women by 30 percentage points, though by only 8 points among men.
"She's bringing New Hampshire into the 21st century," said Maureen Barrows, an administrator at a mental hospital who lives in Exeter. "She's practical. She's someone who pays attention to detail. She's not someone who will waste our money."
Most of the guests at the Amherst house party were not only Republicans, they were women. They listened admiringly as Mrs. Shaheen talked about financing statewide kindergarten and lowering electric rates -- the state has the highest in the country.
Although she is not only trying to capitalize on her sex, women voters clearly relate. "She has that mom quality," saud Kitten Stearns, who intends to vote for Mrs. Shaheen.
Mrs. Stearns is a moderate Republican. So is Mrs. Barrows.
"Not all Republicans are right-wing extremists," Mrs. Barrows said.. "There's a group of us who are very, very moderate."
Mrs. Barrows, who is 60 and ran unsuccessfully for the House in 1992, said she was supporting Mr. Dole. Mr. Lamontagne is another story. Mrs. Barrows, who favors a woman's right to abortion, said some of his positions are extreme.
The Republican gubernatorial candidate has said that he opposes abortion except in cases where the mother's life is in danger. As chairman of the state board of education, he blocked the state from applying for Federal education money last year because, he said, there were too many strings attached. He also supported the teaching of creationism in public schools in the town of Merrimack, which was battling over the issue a year ago.
A lawyer, he has never held elective office.
A month ago, Mrs. Barrows confided her doubts about Mr. Lamontagne to another Republican in town. "I told him, 'I'd love to be brave enough to vote for Jeanne Shaheen,' " she said. "He said, 'Here's her home number. Call Billy.' "
Billy, as he is known in New Hampshire, is Bill Shaheen, a lawyer, who gave up his job as district judge to campaign for his wife. Mrs. Barrows told him she wanted to help -- without openly declaring her support. Then, two weeks ago, she decided to go public. "I said, 'What am I pussyfooting around for? This is nuts.' "
Susan McLane, a Republican who served 25 years as a member of the State Legislature, is also supporting Jeanne Shaheen -- and the Democratic candidates for Congress, and Bill Clinton. Last spring Mrs. McLane switched her political registration to Independent. Last month she became a Democrat.
"I was a liberal Republican," Mrs. McLane said. "The Republican Party changed. I decided it was dishonest to stay Republican."
It is the talk of the state. Mrs. McLane, whose husband is the grandson of a former Governor of New Hampshire, was an icon of Republican politics in New Hampshire. She was a state legislator for 25 years. She gave the first party for George Bush in New Hampshire, at her house in Concord, in 1978. Barbara Bush stayed at her lake house.
"I lent her my bathing suit," Mrs. McLane said. "She forgot hers."
Mrs. Shaheen was introduced at the Katzenbergs' party by Pixie Lown, a former Republican state legislator. This is the first time Mrs. Lown is supporting a Democratic candidate. She said she was driven to it by the candidacy of Mr. Lamontagne, whom she regards as extreme.
But Mr. Lamontagne, who is 39 and has three children, has appealed to the state's conservative residents.
At a recent forum sponsored by the Merrimack Taxpayers Association, the room was filled with his supporters, including April Sarasin, a 37-year-old school bus driver and mother of three. Describing herself as "pro-life," she said she was concerned that there was too much government and feared that tough economic times would return. "I'm concerned we're not going to be able to keep living in New Hampshire," Mrs. Sarasin said. "We're going to have to move. There are a lot of very vocal liberals moving into town."
Even so, the difficulty facing Republicans here was summed up by Duane Martin, who was taking a break between games at the Merrimack Ten Pin Bowling Center.
A self-described diehard Republican and a carpenter, Mr. Martin discounted the talk about an improving economy in New Hampshire.
"I'm not making any more money than I was 10 years ago," he said. "The rich are getting richer the poor are getting poorer. The Democrats are giving too much away; the government is out of control."
Nonetheless, he said: "I'm thinking of voting for Clinton."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "SNAPSHOT: The Outlook In New Hampshire" lists state demographics (1990) and 1992 Presidential election results. (Sources: Congressional Quarterly's Congressional Districts in the 1990's; The Almanac of American Politics 1996)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (68%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (67%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (66%); HISTORY (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: RIMER, SARA; SHAHEEN, JEANNE (SEN); LAMONTAGNE, OVIDE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB BILL CLINTON (91%); JEANNE SHAHEEN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



604 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE SENATE;
The Race to Fill Dole's Senate Seat Is Testing the Appeal of Conservatives

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WICHITA, Kan., Oct. 23

 BODY:
It has been 64 years since Kansans elected a Democrat to the United States Senate.
But Patricia Bennett, a lifelong Republican, says she is voting for a Democrat, Jill Docking, to fill the last two years of the seat that Bob Dole quit in his quest for the Presidency. The Republican candidate, Representative Sam Brownback, is too conservative for her, Ms. Bennett said, especially on issues like gun control, education and abortion. 
 "Although Docking is a Democrat, she is a moderate with what I consider traditional Republican views on economic policy and balancing the budget, but she'd do it in a humane way," said Ms. Bennett, 36, of Kansas City, a lawyer whose father, Robert F. Bennett, was a Republican Governor of Kansas in the 1970's.
The big question in several Senate races, including those in Colorado, Georgia, Illinois and Wyoming, is whether conservative Republicans, often closely allied with the Christian right, are alienating moderates in their own party and driving them to vote Democratic this year.
Nowhere is this struggle thrown into sharper relief than in the cliffhanger between Mr. Brownback and Mrs. Docking, two affable, articulate 40-year-olds who both lay claim to the tradition of prairie pragmatism.
"Kansans have to figure out how far conservatives in the Republican Party here can go and still represent their traditional Republican values," said Burdett A. Loomis, a professor of political science at the University of Kansas.
Mr. Brownback, a lawyer from Topeka and a top lieutenant in Speaker Newt Gingrich's Republican revolution, said he had picked up the endorsements of many conservative Democrats.
But Republicans outnumber Democrats 3 to 2 in Kansas. So moderate Republicans, especially women, and a large group of independents are likely to decide a race that most analysts say is a dead heat.
Mrs. Docking faces an uphill battle, but the Docking name carries weight. A Massachusetts native, Jill Sadowsky married Tom Docking 19 years ago, and in the mid-1980's he became Lieutenant Governor. Both Mr. Docking's father and grandfather were popular conservative Democratic Governors of Kansas.
Mrs. Docking, a stockbroker from Wichita, is promising to carry on the family tradition in her first race, and she is hoping that the name recognition helps offset Mr. Brownback's 2-to-1 edge in campaign spending.
"I am a centrist," Mrs. Docking said at a candidates forum on Tuesday in Topeka, adding that she supports term limits, a balanced budget and cuts in capital-gains taxes.
While embracing Mr. Clinton's support of abortion rights and a ban on assault weapons, Mrs. Docking criticized the Administration for its ill-fated effort to overhaul health care. "They tried to turn it upside-down in an hour and a half, and it didn't work," she said.
Mrs. Docking even praises some goals of the Republican-led Congress, "like focusing on balancing the budget," before hammering home her main point: "But they were too extremist. They were ideological and arrogant, and they shut down the Government."
Mr. Brownback, who opposes most abortions and favors a moment of silence in schools, is backed by the powerful religious-right community, including the Christian Coalition, and benefits from the coalition's well-organized telephone banks and letter-writing campaigns.
"He's become a poster child for the conservatives," said Joseph K. Unekis, a professor of political science at Kansas State University.
Mr. Brownback warns that electing Mrs. Docking would shift control of the Senate to liberal Democrats. "Ted Kennedy will be chairing the Labor Committee," Mr. Brownback said at the forum. "Joe Biden will chair the Judiciary Committee."
In a blizzard of television commercials, Mr. Brownback accuses Mrs. Docking of being "very liberal" and of supporting tax increases that "even liberals like Bill Clinton do not support." Mr. Brownback supports a balanced-budget amendment, tort reform and a 10 percent pay cut for all members of Congress.
Unlike some Republican candidates, Mr. Brownback is not afraid to run on Congress's record. He lists the accomplishments -- new welfare and health-insurance laws, new farming programs and streamlining Congress -- and plays down Democratic assertions that Republicans tried to cut money for student loans, environmental protection and Medicare.
But like many other Republicans, Mr. Brownback has distanced himself from the unpopular Mr. Gingrich.
"The Speaker has been a strong political leader, but I've had my differences with him," Mr. Brownback said in an interview.
The race between Mrs. Docking and Mr. Brownback has overshadowed a second race, to fill the seat of 18-year Republican Senator Nancy Landon Kassebaum, who is retiring.
Pat Roberts, 60, a Republican in the House for eight terms who headed the House Agriculture Committee, holds a double-digit lead in local polls over the Democrat, State Treasurer Sally Thompson.
Ms. Thompson, 56, a former president of a savings and loan association, has attacked Mr. Roberts's future Congressional pension as excessive and his living in Washington for 30 years as evidence that he is out of touch with Kansans.
Mr. Roberts, whose dry wit rivals Mr. Dole's, boasts of going "toe to toe" with Mr. Gingrich to preserve the Food Stamp program, and has accused Ms. Thompson of mismanaging state money.
The campaign received scant notice outside Kansas until a bizarre incident two weeks ago. After a meeting with editors of The Kansas City Star, Mr. Roberts lingered in a third-floor corridor as Ms. Thompson walked ahead.
"I'm not getting into the elevator with the bitch," Mr. Roberts told his son David, 23, who was upset with Ms. Thompson's remarks about his father at the meeting.
Mr. Roberts later apologized publicly to Ms. Thompson. "It shows he doesn't have respect for women," Ms. Thompson said this week.
"I really regret it," Mr. Roberts said in an interview this week.
But he added, "I don't think it'll have much effect on the campaign."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (97%); 

CITY: TOPEKA, KS, USA (90%); WICHITA, KS, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); CHRISTIAN COALITION CHRISTIAN COALITION (59%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (54%); UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); CHRISTIAN COALITION CHRISTIAN COALITION (59%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (54%); UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS; UNITED STATES (97%); KANSAS, USA (97%); TOPEKA, KS, USA (90%); WICHITA, KS, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GUN CONTROL (76%); LAWYERS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); TERM LIMITS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (71%); ABORTION (71%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; DOLE, BOB; BROWNBACK, SAM (REPR); DOCKING, JILL; ROBERTS, PAT (REPR); THOMPSON, SALLY (TREAS); KASSEBAUM, NANCY LANDON (SEN) SAMUEL BROWNBACK (89%); ROBERT BENNETT (69%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); PAT ROBERTS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



605 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Tides of Change in Troubled St. Petersburg

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Fla., Oct. 26

 BODY:
After the arson and violence in this city's streets two nights ago, residents and officials here are just coming to grips with the unrest, which some say underscores the changing character of an area many still regard as a placid, picturesque town.
"This came as a complete surprise," said an 86-year-old woman who has lived here for 33 years and wanted to be identified only as "just a person who loves St. Petersburg." 
 "This is considered a little town," she added. Everybody is so family-oriented."
Ronald Akers, director of the Center for Studies in Criminology and Law at the University of Florida, agreed that the city, on the Gulf of Mexico, was considered an unlikely spot for a disturbance. "St. Petersburg is perceived as the place where old people live, a tranquil, relatively peaceful place with some good beaches," he said. "It has never been perceived as an urban hot spot."
But St. Petersburg's population has grown by about one-fifth since 1970, to 245,000, and city officials say the average age has dropped to 38 from 48 in the same period. Retirees account for barely a quarter of the residents, and they are increasingly home-grown. Retirees moving in from out of the state look away from urban centers like St. Petersburg to find a low cost of living and the amenities of retirement communities, city officials said.
While the rejuvenated city has been shedding the image of a retirement mecca for one of vibrancy -- the Tampa Bay Devil Rays will bring major league baseball to its domed stadium in 1998 -- it is also hobbled by some big-city problems, including higher unemployment and lower education levels among its black residents, who account for 19 percent of its population.
Urban problems, along with charges of heavy-handedness by the police, seem to be at the root of the disturbance on Thursday night, Mayor David J. Fischer said. "I think the failing is in the young adult group, the 18-to-28-year-old who feels disenfranchised and disillusioned," he said today. "We're going to do a lot of work evaluating what happened. Are we on the wrong path? Are we different than other cities? We're going to work real hard on that."
The site of the disturbances was calm today, and the police said Friday night had been quieter than usual. Except for a couple of arrests and several isolated incidents of arson and bottle-throwing, the night was uneventful for the 200 police officers on patrol, four times the usual number on a weekend.
A state of emergency, which bans any sales of gasoline in containers or guns, remained in force until Monday, however, and about 200 National Guardsmen were standing by.
A dozen people were injured and 28 fires were set after a crowd estimated in the hundreds reacted violently to the fatal shooting of a black teen-ager in his car by a white police officer on Thursday night in a predominantly black neighborhood in the southern part of the city. The police said the teen-ager, Tyron Lewis, 18, had been stopped for speeding but had refused to roll down his window and had been shot through the windshield when his car lurched forward toward the officer.
The police shooting was the second in the area within a few days -- the first involved a black man who the police said was killed by officers as he held a knife to his estranged wife. It was also the fifth this year involving moving vehicles and similar circumstances, and, in most cases, a black driver, police said.
But city officials expressed surprise at the violent reaction because they said racial tensions between the police and black residents had eased under Police Chief Darrel W. Stephens, who stepped up community policing efforts. He was hired in 1993 to deal with the worsening racial discord inside and outside the Police Department under his predecessor.
Residents of the area of the disturbance, however, said a policy of bringing police officers closer to the community through volunteer centers and more time spent in neighborhoods had not reduced police harassment. Black teen-agers complained of attracting police attention whenever they gathered in small groups, while a white resident, Don Mosley, 49, said he had often been stopped in his car for driving in his own neighborhood.
"They see a white person in a black community, and they think you're buying drugs," Mr. Mosley said.
Sevell C. Brown 3d, president of the St. Petersburg chapter of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, said there was disappointment in Mayor Fischer, who was elected with the overwhelming support of black voters. He said the city had not made black residents' concerns about police harassment and other matters a priority, and he called the riot what happens "when you refuse to listen to the rumblings" of dissatisfaction.
"Look around and try to find a black club," he said. "Most blacks have to go to Tampa to entertain themselves."
Mayor Fischer, however, has focused on neighborhood revitalization projects, including in the area where the disturbance occurred.
Police Chief Stephens said that although there might be some racism among his 500 officers, 17 percent of them black, he did not believe that most of his officers singled out black residents for harassment.
"Clearly there's racism in our society, and we have those kinds of problems in our department," he said, "but our officers' behavior, by and large, is professional."
To insure peace, however, the city has invited the Federal Commission on Civil Rights, which had found an improvement in racial tensions between the police and the black community here in recent years, to come back again to evaluate the shooting incident and its aftermath. Community meetings are also scheduled.

GRAPHIC: Photo: St. Petersburg, Fla., was beset by racial violence on Thursday night after a black man was killed by a white police officer. On Friday night, 200 police officers were on duty, and the city was mostly quiet. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GUARD (US) UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GUARD (US) UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ST PETERSBURG (FLA); UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; BLACKS; ARSON; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ARSON (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (87%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); RIOTS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); MISCONDUCT (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); BASEBALL (69%); BEACHES (68%); POPULATION GROWTH (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); COST OF LIVING (64%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (50%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



606 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE THIRD PARTY;
Where Perot Ran Strong, Loyalties Persist

SERIES: AN AMERICAN PLACE -- Looking for a Leader

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP 

DATELINE: CANTON, Ohio, Oct. 26

 BODY:
Stark is a political swing county where a lot of people -- 25 percent of the voters -- supported Ross Perot for President in 1992. As a result, it is an easy place to find a lot of people who are deserting Mr. Perot in 1996. Their reasons break down into four basic categories.
First, there is the "goofy" problem. "He had an original story that appealed to me last time," said Frederick Mottice, a lineman for a power company. "But now he might be a little goofy. He thinks people are out to get him." Jim Lenart, a program analyst, mentioned this factor, too. "I still like what he stands for," Mr. Lenart said. "But a lot of people are saying maybe he's a little goofy." 
 There is also the vanishing allure problem, similar to what middle-aged couples experience before a divorce. "I thought Perot in '92 was something different, something special," said Ron Patterson, a computer technician. "But now he just seems like a rich guy."
Then there is the tough-talking, plain-spoken quitter issue. "He sounded like a guy who would really make something happen," said Mike Kelly, a union auto worker. "But then he changed his mind too many times, being in, being out, being in, being out. I don't like quitters."
And finally, there is the wasted vote syndrome. Keith George, an engineering administrator, still likes Mr. Perot's economic policies and his character, but will not vote for him because he does not appear to be electable. "I certainly don't want to waste my vote again, and that's what I did," said Mr. George, a Republican. "After the '92 election, a good friend said, 'If all of you who'd voted for Perot supported Bush, he'd have won.' It was a bad feeling."
And yet, even with all these problems, and seemingly insurmountable odds, it is striking from interviews with several dozen people who voted for Mr. Perot in 1992 that many of them here -- perhaps half -- are sticking by him. They fear for the local manufacturing economy, they like his economic ideas, they hate politicians, they think it is important to vote their conscience, they think that even if he seems a little paranoid it does not mean people are not out to get him ("Look at the debates," one said). And several said that they simply did not believe the polls, that the polls were wrong or that the polls were made up, and that Mr. Perot could win.
They think Mr. Perot is having an effect on the national political dialogue on issues like the deficit, and they got a chuckle out of Bob Dole's overture to him this week. "Mr. Dole is sounding a little desperate to me," said Al Coppock, a retired truck salesman and a Perot supporter.
(Not that the President impresses them. "Clinton's moral character? A shambles," said David Bibby, a technical director for a maker of hand-held computers, who is sticking with Mr. Perot.)
In 1992, Mr. Perot received 25 percent of the vote in Stark County and 21 percent in Ohio, compared with 19 percent nationally. Ohio is a leading manufacturing state, and Stark's four biggest employers make steel, roller bearings, vacuum cleaners and automated teller machines. The sucking sound of jobs heading south is a worry here, even in these relatively good economic times.
Every Tuesday morning at the Denny's on West Tuscarawas Avenue, about a dozen Perot sympathizers, mostly blue collar, middle class and union members, meet for breakfast. This week they griped about taxes ("too high"), government ("too much") and media conspiracies ("very suspicious"). Their talk is filled with "Gatts" and "Naftas," the free trade agreements, which they think will be their downfall.
Richard Cordes, a union steelworker at the Timken Company, has 10 copies of a video called "Vanishing Jobs," which chronicles the movement of American factories to Mexico and which he lends to co-workers. "They're all loaned out," he said. He keeps Perot literature in his toolbox at the steel mill.
Since the end of Patrick J. Buchanan's Presidential campaign, the Perot supporters are about the only ones here talking passionately about the problems with the economy. The Democrats have no incentive to discuss it: good economic news is Mr. Clinton's ticket to re-election. Mr. Dole's supporters say the economy could be better and talk about his 15 percent cut proposal, but they are not about to attack their fellow Republicans in the boardrooms who are making the decisions to downsize and outsource and send jobs south.
The economy here is a lot better than it was four years ago, but it is still a concern for the average worker. On the plus side, unemployment is about half the 1992 rate. Diebold and the Timken Company are posting record profits, and analysts say the Hoover Company, a division of Maytag, is also performing strongly. In the last several years, Diebold has added white-collar jobs, and Timken has made an unprecedented number of foreign and national purchases this year. It has also expanded existing plants.
On the minus side, Hoover decided this summer to build its newest line of upright vacuums at a nonunion plant in El Paso. It said it was trying to stay competitive with Eureka, which long ago moved much of its vacuum cleaner manufacturing to El Paso and Juarez, Mexico. Over the last dozen years, hundreds of union manufacturing jobs at Diebold have been lost to nonunion plants in the South and to outsourcing, and the plant workers who remain here make less than they did in 1983.
A unionized Ford plant closed here in the late 1980's, while nonunion companies like DLH Industries, which supplies parts to General Motors and pays a few dollars an hour above minimum wage, have grown. The county's second biggest steel company, Republic Engineered Steels, is having its worst year in history as it tries to stay competitive with small, nonunion mills in the South.
The good and bad are epitomized by the Strip, a huge new suburban shopping complex in Jackson. When finished, it will have more than a dozen anchor stores and generate thousands of new jobs. But most of those jobs will pay little above minimum wage.
"No matter how Ross does, these problems are not going away," Mr. Coppock said. "We're getting jobs we don't need in this community."
The Denny's group is not about to get discouraged, even if Mr. Perot appears far behind. Many, like Tom Heatherly, are used to being far behind. In a 1994 Republican primary race for county commission, Mr. Heatherly ran fourth out of four, collecting 12 percent of the vote.
But they have also had their victories. Mr. Coppock, Mr. Heatherly and Mr. Cordes were part of a small group that had practically no money yet led successful campaigns to defeat seven proposed sales tax increases in recent years, nearly paralyzing Stark County government more than once.
Today at midday, they were to meet at the county's main library and caravan to the Youngstown area, where Mr. Perot was scheduled to speak. As might be expected with Perot supporters, before agreeing to caravan they discussed whether it would be better to go their separate ways and meet at the speech. In contrast, when the local Democrats went to hear Mr. Clinton speak in Cleveland on Monday, they rented two buses.
Although several of the Denny's regulars have been on the edge of local politics for years, the typical Perot supporters interviewed do not want to be that close, which is precisely why they are sticking with their man.
Richard Heasley, a union steelworker who calls the Reform Party candidate "a breath of fresh air," was not bothered that Mr. Perot was excluded from the debates. "Nah," he said, "more people are interested in the baseball."
Asked whether he worried about wasting his vote, Billy Roseberry, a retired ironworker, said: "I think you should vote for who you want to win or lose. You should vote for who you support. If everyone figured they wouldn't vote for a guy who doesn't have a chance, we'd never have anything."
As for the national polls showing Mr. Perot in single digits, why should they trust polls any more than politicians? they ask. "The polls may say 5 percent," said Tony DeStephen, a draftsman, "but maybe things will change. You never know. It's early."
And Dee Clapsaddle, a medical bookkeeper, wonders whether these pollsters really even talk to anyone. "I'm very skeptical," she said. "I've never met anyone who was polled."
Living midway between Democratic Cleveland and Republican Columbus, the citizens of Canton, Ohio, and surrounding Stark County have a history of voting for the winning Presidential candidate. This is the 32d article in a yearlong series that explores the forces shaping the political debate at the grass roots. (Previous articles are available to computer users on The New York Times Web, at http://www.nytimes.com/specials/canton.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tuesday's Perot breakfast at Denny's in Canton, Ohio, included, clockwise from left, Doug Dale, Betty Jane Coppock, Dorothy Sweitzer, Al Coppock (dark clothing in booth), Tom Heatherly (right) and Doyle Miller. (Scott Heckel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANTON (OHIO); STARK COUNTY (OHIO); UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; SURVEYS AND SERIES POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); 

PERSON: WINERIP, MICHAEL; PEROT, ROSS ANN LIVERMORE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



607 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE RACE FACTOR;
Incumbency Helps Black Candidate in Redrawn District

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Ga., Oct. 23

 BODY:
Shaking hands with elderly residents at a candidates forum today, Representative Sanford D. Bishop Jr., a black Democrat, was approached by a white man. "I've followed you for some time," the man said, extending his hand. "Your record speaks for itself."
As he seeks re-election in the newly redrawn Second Congressional District, Mr. Bishop is hoping that many white voters will assess him in the same way, by record and not skin color. Elected in a district drawn specifically to have a majority of black voters, he is now running in a district that was redrawn after the Supreme Court had disallowed what it said was blatant racial gerrymandering. 
 Mr. Bishop is one of five black incumbent Democrats in the South in that position. In his case, the proportion of the black population was reduced, to 35 percent from 52.
Yet Mr. Bishop is considered the favorite, as are the four others. Victories by most or all of them may provide provocative lessons about the power of incumbency, the success of race-based affirmative-action programs that give blacks the chance to be judged ultimately on their performance and ideology and not their race, and, perhaps, the lessening of race as a factor in Southern politics.
"I would like to think that with a win that we have matured in the South and that we are saying to the nation that the old stigma that has been attached to the South is no longer applicable," Mr. Bishop said in an interview.
As state legislatures, prodded by recent Supreme Court decisions, drastically redrew maps and reduced the numbers of blacks in several districts in Georgia, Louisiana, Florida and Texas, many civil rights leaders grimly predicted a reduction in the number of black members in the House.
But the black incumbents in those districts appear to be running well. Mr. Bishop and another black incumbent, Cynthia A. McKinney, easily won their primaries in Georgia and are leading their Republican opponents, though Ms. McKinney's race has tightened considerably in recent weeks after accusations that she had been a defender of the Nation of Islam minister, Louis Farrakhan.
In Florida, another incumbent, Corrine D. Brown, is well ahead of her Republican rivals, and Eddie Bernice Johnson in Dallas and Sheila Jackson Lee in Houston are leading in their districts.
"It's better than we would have expected, given the blood letting that went on in the Supreme Court," said Penda Hair, a lawyer for the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund.
There are some exceptions. In Louisiana, Representative Cleo Fields, whose district dropped to less than 30 percent black registered voters from 64 percent as a result of redistricting, said his chances of winning in the new district were slim and declined to run again.
Political scientists, experts in redistricting and the candidates themselves attribute the black candidates' strong showing to the power of incumbency, a status that many say the black candidates would have never achieved had the majority black districts not been created.
Having been in Congress the lawmakers have compiled records, achieved some name recognition and gained access to major campaign donors, achievements that might otherwise have been out of reach to black challengers.
"The central question, I believe, is not what happens to the first generation after redistricting, but what happens to the next generation," said Ms. McKinney, who is running in a district that is 32 percent black after having first been elected in a district that was more than 60 percent black.
Some who have studied the records of the black incumbents say what the next generation of black politicians will do is what black politicians like Mr. Bishop have been doing all along, position themselves in the center or the right of the political spectrum and try to increase their appeal to whites.
Since his election in 1992, Mr. Bishop has assiduously tried remain in step with his overwhelmingly rural, intensely conservative district in southwestern Georgia. He became the only black lawmaker to join the blue dogs, a group of fiscally conservative Democrats, mainly from the South. He was given a seat on the Agriculture Committee, where he has been zealous in protecting subsidies for peanut and cotton farmers. And he has looked out for the three military bases in his district.
"You got a lot of people who want to send messages, angry white males and whatnot," said James Lee Adams Jr., a white farmer who supports Mr. Bishop. "But Sanford brings home the bacon and makes sure it's in all the right smokehouses."
In his latest race, Mr. Bishop is taking no chances. Before the district was redrawn, he voted to ban the sale and manufacture of some semiautomatic weapons. After redistricting, he voted to repeal the ban.
To counter charges from his Republican opponent that he is a liberal, Mr. Bishop promotes his positions in favor of the death penalty, for the welfare bill that President Clinton signed and for an end to a Federal AIDS prevention program for homosexual men.
"For any politician, he or she has got to be responsible to the needs of their constituents, whoever those constituents are," Mr. Bishop said. "I've tried to be the kind of Congressman, no matter how they draw the lines, people will say he's done a good job."
The question then becomes will it be enough for whites to overcome the racially polarized voting patterns that have been the norm here.
"If it turns out, after all, that people are going to vote against him simply because he's black, then that says something pretty bad about the continuing problems in race relations in the United States," said David Bositis, a senior fellow at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); ALBANY, GA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA; SOUTHERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); ALBANY, GA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS POLITICS (90%); REDISTRICTING (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); AGING (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); LAWYERS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (54%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; BISHOP, SANFORD D JR (REPR) SANFORD D BISHOP JR (91%); SHEILA JACKSON-LEE (58%); EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



608 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Both Try to Appear Hawkish on Tax Cuts

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER 

 BODY:
When it comes to taxes and the Federal budget, Representative Robert G. Torricelli says, there is really little separating him from Representative Richard A. Zimmer, his opponent for the United States Senate seat from New Jersey.
"I voted for a tax cut last year, so did Dick Zimmer," Mr. Torricelli said in a recent debate. "I voted for the balanced budget amendment, so did Dick Zimmer." 
 But Mr. Zimmer, a Republican with a long record as a fiscal conservative, contends that there are sharp distinctions between himself and Mr. Torricelli, a Democrat. He views Mr. Torricelli as a late convert to tax and spending reductions.
As is often the case with the positioning that goes on in election campaigns, both candidates are essentially correct. Mr. Torricelli did vote last year for tax cuts proposed by Republican members of Congress, and he has voted in recent years for the balanced budget amendment, after initially opposing it. The measure was passed by the House but failed last year to win approval by the Senate.
But there are also significant differences in emphasis between the two men when they talk, and vote, on Federal spending and taxing. Mr. Zimmer is right when he asserts that he has been, in his words, "a hawk" on cutting spending and taxes and eliminating the Federal deficit, and that he has been one longer and more passionately than Mr. Torricelli.
The candidates' views on a host of other major issues -- education, health care, the environment and social programs, among others -- are shaped by their fundamental priorities on Federal spending. Mr. Zimmer places greater importance on shrinking the size and scope of Government, while Mr. Torricelli has a somewhat more activist view of Government.
Their disagreement is not over whether the Federal budget should be balanced, but how it should be done.
Mr. Zimmer places a priority on cutting spending and taxes, arguing that reducing taxes would give Americans more of their own income to invest or spend. That, in turn, would cause the economy to grow much more quickly than it has in recent years, he contends, so all Americans would be better off.
"You'll be making more money," he told workers at an eyeglass factory last week. "You can save what you earn, and we in the Government will take away less."
Mr. Zimmer, who says he would never vote for a measure that resulted in a net increase in taxes, has tried to differentiate himself from Mr. Torricelli by highlighting the Democrat's votes in favor of tax increases during his seven terms in Congress. Mr. Zimmer particularly points to President Clinton's five-year economic plan, which was passed by Congress, with Mr. Torricelli's support, in 1993. The plan significantly cut the size of the Federal deficit, by reducing spending and raising taxes.
"I've come to understand that when you raise taxes, elected legislators spend every dollar of the new revenue, and then some," Mr. Zimmer said during a recent interview. "And that's why I've become such a hawk on cutting spending."
Mr. Zimmer has voted with Republican Congressional leaders over the last two years to trim the budgets of some Federal agencies and to cut the rate of growth in other Federal programs. He says he would cut not only social programs favored by liberals but also military and space programs that have been supported by conservatives.
"The only way we are going to balance the budget is by putting the broad range of spending programs on the table," Mr. Zimmer said.
Mr. Torricelli says he, too, wants to eliminate the Federal deficit. But like the President and countless other Democrats around the country this fall, he has been emphasizing the preservation of certain programs -- particularly those favored by the middle class, like Medicare, environmental protection and educational aid -- while also bringing Federal spending in line with Federal revenues.
Mr. Torricelli favors a cut in the capital gains tax -- as does Mr. Zimmer -- which Mr. Torricelli says would spur economic growth by increasing investments. He also supports the targeted tax reductions proposed by the President for families with children.
But Mr. Torricelli spends more time talking about Mr. Zimmer's fiscal ideas than his own, in the apparent belief that voters are more worried this year about Republican-sponsored cuts in popular Government programs than they are about reducing taxes.
Mr. Torricelli's television advertisements have concentrated on services Mr. Zimmer has voted to cut, either by reducing actual spending or, in the case of Medicare, by cutting a program's rate of growth. Mr. Zimmer insists that he has never voted to reduce Medicare. But Mr. Torricelli contends that cutting the program's rate of growth while the number of elderly people is growing guarantees that there is less Federal money available for each individual's care.
"With baby boomers retiring and a proposed $270 billion reduction in Medicare spending, there would be $1,700 less available per person on Medicare and a nearly $1,000 increase in their premiums," Mr. Torricelli said in a recent interview.
"Mr. Zimmer can say that's not a cut," he said. "But in the real world in which a senior citizen lives, they're both paying more and having less money available for their services."
Mr. Torricelli has attacked Mr. Zimmer for supporting a Republican bill that would have cut by 25 percent the budget of several Federal agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency. Mr. Zimmer responded that, because he thought many of the agencies should have been cut, he reluctantly supported the proposed reduction to the E.P.A.
In the end, Mr. Torricelli is presenting himself to voters as someone who will protect Federal services that they care about, while simultaneously balancing the budget. Mr. Zimmer offers himself as someone who is much more determined to cut spending and taxes, which would make Americans better off.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%); 

PERSON: ZIMMER, RICHARD A (REPR); TORRICELLI, ROBERT G (REPR); FINDER, ALAN BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



609 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-14
 
AFGHANISTAN'S LATEST SCOURGE
At least 10,000 villages have been turned to rubble in the 18 years that Afghanistan has been at war, but now the ruin comes from the Taliban, strict Muslims who had once promised to end the fighting. 12
 
MEXICAN MYSTERY DEEPENS
In the more than two weeks since they unearthed a body on a ranch belonging to the brother of a former president, investigators have made no progress in learning who the dead man is or how he got there. 3
 
FUROR OVER VENEZUELA PRISONS
The death in a Caracas prison of 25 inmates, burned alive in their cell by National Guardsmen last week, has become a focus for the rivalries that lie behind the misery of Venezuela's prison system. 4
 
BOSNIA'S WEAK ECONOMIC ENGINE
Although some diplomats had counted on industrial renewal to help restore the links between Bosnia's Muslims, Serbs and Croats, economic growth has turned out to be much slower than expected. 13
 
THE STRUGGLE FOR JERUSALEM
It is a city with not much industry, little strategic significance and too little water, yet of all the issues separating Jews and Palestinians, none approaches the passions fired by Jerusalem. 14
 
U.N. EVACUATION IN ZAIRE
Eastern Zaire descended further into chaos as fighting spread and intensified, forcing the United Nations to pull out its 98 relief workers and leaving half a million refugees to fend for themselves. 14
 
National 16-34
 
A FOCUS ON TURNOUT
The final 10 days of the 1996 campaign are shaping up as a furious struggle by the two parties and their allies to get their supporters to the polls, in the face of widespread indications that sagging voter interest may well diminish turnout. 1
 
A HARSH ATTACK BY DOLE
Bob Dole continued trying to stir up "outrage" at the Clinton Administration, offered a rare mention of Hillary Rodham Clinton and criticized the President's lack of military service. 1
 
ATLANTA BOMB CASE
The Justice Department declared that Richard A. Jewell is no longer considered a suspect in the July 27 bombing at the Olympics. 1
 
STEPPING DOWN, AND ONWARD
Among the 14 Senators who are retiring this year, there is a mixture of excitement and angst over the future. 22
 
WORRY OVER WETLANDS
As small wetlands in Panama City, Fla., give way to Wal-Marts, with the approval of the Army Corps of Engineers, other agencies are becoming concerned. 22
 
PEROT, FOUR YEARS LATER
An American Place: In Canton, Ohio, which gave strong support to Ross Perot four years ago, there are some defections this time around, but a longing for Perot-like change persists. 26
 
Metropolitan 35-40
 
GIULIANI BACKING KEMP (AND DOLE)
With a little more than 200 hours left before the Presidential election, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani ended months of hand-wringing yesterday and endorsed the Republican presidential ticket of Jack Kemp and Bob Dole, virtually in that order. 1
 
CITY PAYS FOR PRIVATE EDUCATION
Hundreds of parents of learning-disabled children are getting New York City's public school system to pay for educating their children in private schools, at an annual cost of $20,000 to $60,000 a child. 35
 
CUBAN ARTISTS: JUST VISITING
They dance on New York's most famed stages and organize the latest downtown art exhibitions. They perform in respected tiny theaters and play their music in big outdoor spaces. They are young and talented and they are Cuban. But unlike earlier generations who renounced Cuba to settle in the United States, this group returns home when the show is over. 35
 
Obituaries 41-42

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CROATIA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TALIBAN (90%); PRISONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RELIGION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); REFUGEES (73%); WETLANDS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); BURN INJURIES (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); APPROVALS (67%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



610 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1743 words

HEADLINE: Cuban Artists Abroad Straddle Two Worlds;
Ideological Pressure Intrudes on Acclaim

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO 

 BODY:
They dance on New York's most famed stages and organize the latest downtown art exhibitions. They perform in respected tiny theaters and play their music in big outdoor spaces. They are young and talented and they are Cuban. Unfailingly, they draw big crowds.
Yet when the curtain comes down and the show is over, these Cubans go home. 
 "Some of the people I know think I'm crazy for wanting to return," said Alfredo Alonso, 29, the lead actor in "Vagos Rumores" ("Vague Rumors"), a Cuban play at the Gramercy Arts Theater. "They are betting I won't return, but I will."
Mr. Alonso, who plays a 19th-century Cuban poet who was critical of slavery and Spain's domination but who refused to go into exile as many of his compatriots did, says he would not have come to the United States if it had meant leaving Cuba for good.
The artists' desire to go home, and the fact that the Cuban Government allows them to, sets them apart from hundreds of thousands of Cubans who in the last 37 years have had to renounce country and family to work in the United States.
But the privilege comes at a price: they must straddle an ideological fence in a politically charged situation that for almost four decades has demanded clear definitions.
"The first thing people want to know when they hear I come from Cuba is am I or am I not against the Cuban Government," said Juan Carlos Cremata, 34, a film maker who lives in Manhattan and plans to return soon to the island after five years of world travel. "All these questions are unnecessary."
And the answers are seldom clear.
At a time of increasing tension between the two countries, brought about by Cuba's downing of two United States planes in February and Washington's swift reaction to tighten travel and trade with the island, the artists stand on uncharted terrain. Neither government spokesmen nor government critics, they walk an ideological fine line.
"If you have been here too long and return to Cuba, people think you are C.I.A.," Mr. Cremata said. "And if you've been in Cuba too long and then come here, people think you work for the state security apparatus. There is paranoia everywhere."
Adding to the artists' balancing act is a troublesome fact: rejection by members of the Cuban exile community, who assume that a decision to return to Cuba is an implicit statement of support for Fidel Castro.
For Cuban artists working in the United States, openness about their intentions could cost them performance contracts and clients. A Miami concert by the Cuban singer Rosita Fornes was recently canceled after exiles threatened mass protests outside the theater. In New York, where the singer performed for four nights in July at the Gramercy Arts Theater, some 60 exiles staged demonstrations the first two nights outside the theater and local Spanish-language papers carried scathing editorials. But the show went on.
Protests have not held back New York audiences, who flock to see these artists precisely because they live in Cuba and, some believe, bring with them the more authentic sounds and rhythms of the island.
But there are political reasons as well that draw certain audiences to Cuban art, particularly those who advocate closer relations between the two countries. After decades of cold war tension, these artists are the only bridge over the chasm that divides the two countries.
Foundations and nonprofit organizations that bring many of the artists here say they relish their groundbreaking role. "We see this as a very positive experience," said Holly Block, executive director of Art in General, an alternative nonprofit art organization in TriBeCa that has brought four artists from the island in less than a year and plans to bring five more soon. "It foments dialogue, it creates discussion and it helps to clear some of the stereotypes about what's going on in Cuba."
In the last few months alone, New Yorkers have been exposed to an onslaught of Cuban artists.
Jose Manuel Carreno, a principal dancer with American Ballet Theater, danced to rave reviews in the spring and will tour with the company early next year. The musician and composer Chucho Valdes packed the Village Vanguard every night a few weeks ago. Gerardo Mosquera, an art critic, is a curator at the New Museum in SoHo. Two members of a trio called Los Carpinteros (the Carpenters) participated in a recent TriBeCa art exhibition.
Earlier this year, Alexis (Kcho) Leyva Machado had a well-received one-man show at the Barbara Gladstone Gallery in SoHo. And Grupo AfroCuba de Matanzas, a music and folkloric dance group, gave summer concerts at Lincoln Center, at the Apollo Theater in Harlem and at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
The concept of artists living and working abroad, particularly in the United States, after 35 years of embargo against the island, is relatively new in Cuba. Before 1990, the Cuban Government allowed few artists or performers to visit here.
Observers of Cuban affairs say that things began to change rapidly as the country's economic crisis deepened after the loss of cash subsidies from the former Soviet Union. No longer able to support its artists -- or, some say, looking to squelch growing dissent among the intellectual and artistic elite who expected Cuba to democratize as Eastern bloc countries did -- the Government began to relax the exit-permit rules.
"If we can no longer provide materials and perks for them, it's unfair for us to ask them not to seek them elsewhere," said Roberto Robaina, Cuba's Foreign Minister, during a recent visit here. "So we have to let them go and do their own thing, wherever their work takes them."
Their work takes them throughout the world, from Buenos Aires to Caracas, Madrid to Istanbul, but the United States is their country of choice. And New York, with its thirst for art and new talent, is the city of their dreams.
"This is where I always wanted to dance," said Mr. Carreno, 28. "I love New York."
In 1995, the State Department issued travel visas to 84 Cuban artists, entertainers and professionals of "extraordinary ability"; 23 of them came as temporary workers, State Department officials say. In 1989, only 4 Cubans received the same type of visa.
"They are coming in droves," said Manuel Gonzalez, a corporate curator in Manhattan. "It's a free-for-all."
Yet it is never an easy journey. Because of embargo restrictions, Cuban professionals who wish to enter the United States must seek special visas and their sponsors must secure a license from the Treasury Department to pay for everything from plane tickets to salaries.
Most of the artists receive just a modest per diem. Each of the six members of the theater company that brought "Vagos Rumores" to Manhattan, for example, receives $56 a day for food and transportation from Repertorio Espanol. If they eat frugally, they have money left over to please their whims.
"I may not be able to eat for the rest of the month, but I'm going to see a Broadway show," said Adria Santana, 48, the female lead in "Vagos Rumores."
These much-sought-after trips offer a rare chance to earn dollars and buy scarce products, from soap to leather shoes, and they also provide the artists with an opportunity to expand their knowledge and create new markets for their art. The artists, who say they shun politics and are here for professional reasons only, are careful not to jeopardize their travel privileges by insulting the political sensitivities of their hosts and audiences and of the Cuban Government, which controls exit visas. They measure every word, especially to strangers.
"You never know if the person next to you likes the Cuban Government or not," said a painter who recently came to New York and flew briefly to Miami to seek new clients. Speaking on condition of anonymity, he insisted that he was "a free man" who refused to be manipulated by other people's ideologies. But remember, he said before he left, "I don't want this story to ruin the Miami market for me."
Mr. Cremata, saying he is tired of demagogy on both sides, declines to discuss politics. His father was killed when anti-Castro terrorists blew up a plane over the Caribbean in 1976.
"I saw the beginning of the movie and I want to see how it ends," he said when asked why he wants to return to Cuba, using an apt metaphor for a film maker but saying little about his feelings toward the Cuban Government. "And there's also my family; I don't want to leave them behind."
Aside from ties to family and friends at home, the artists working here also say they have sound business reasons not to put roots down in New York. Without support from the sponsors who brought them here, they would have to compete for jobs on the open market, a difficult skill to acquire for artists who have been government trained and supported.
"I know actresses who are working as clerks during the day in some stores and don't get a chance to perform," Ms. Santana said. "I don't want that kind of life. In Cuba, no matter how difficult things are, I can do what I love to do."
Arturo Cuenca, a conceptual artist who defected in 1991 after two years of playing the role his colleagues are now assuming, is critical of their on-the-fence position, calling it comfortable but dishonest.
"It's very easy to let the Cuban Government back your career. It's a lot more difficult to go at it alone," said Mr. Cuenca, 40, adding that his career suffered after he defected, because he lost the cachet of being a Cuban living in Cuba. "Once you become an exile and make statements against the Cuban Government, the doors of the art community, for the most part, are closed."
The artists, who know they lead a privileged life, are taking advantage of their newly found quasi-freedom.
Ms. Santana has traveled to three countries with "Vagos Rumores" and to 10 more with a monologue she will also perform here after the play closes in November. Mr. Carreno has danced in Europe, Asia and the United States for six years. Mr. Cremata has traveled through Europe and Latin America thanks to a 16-minute black-and-white experimental film he made in 1990.
"Every time my film gets selected for a festival anywhere, I have to go with it," he said. "I will not send the film alone. That little film has allowed me to see the world. People ask us to choose, but why should we?
"We are opening a door," Mr. Cremata said. "And my job as an artist is to open doors, not to close them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Adria Santana, foreground, and Alfredo Alonso, the stars of the Cuban play "Vagos Rumores" at the Gramercy Arts Theater, apply makeup before going onstage. The cast lives frugally, hoping to have money for some New York shopping. (Photographs by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times) (pg. 35); Arturo Cuenca, a conceptual artist, is critical of Cuban artists who try to straddle both worlds. He defected in 1991 and cannot go home. He is shown in his New York studio with some of his photographic light boxes. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) (pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CASTILLE-LA MANCHA, SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); SPAIN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CASTILLE-LA MANCHA, SPAIN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; CUBAN-AMERICANS THEATER (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); MUSIC (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (61%); 

PERSON: OJITO, MIRTA FIDEL CASTRO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



611 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Seeks to End Link Of Mob to Food Markets

BYLINE: By SELWYN RAAB 

 BODY:
In a new tactic to combat organized crime's influence at New York City's five major wholesale food markets, the Giuliani administration wants the authority to investigate and ban officials of unions who represent market employees and are suspected of having ties to the mob.
The administration's request is contained in the draft of a proposed law before the City Council that for the first time would empower city officials to expel union officers if they conclude they are connected to Mafia figures or to corruption. 
 "We can't clean up the markets without addressing the traditional role organized crime has played in these unions," said Councilman Kenneth K. Fisher of Brooklyn, one of the chief sponsors of the bill.
A draft of the legislation was criticized by some labor leaders as an improper intrusion into union activities that would give City Hall unusual authority to scrutinize the backgrounds of officers, require them to be fingerprinted and disqualify them for acts of misconduct related to "the orderly operation of the market."
A major union leader in the city, Assemblyman Brian M. McLaughlin of Queens, who is the president of the New York City Central Labor Council, said that the group did not contest the city's right to conduct background investigations or the need to rid the markets of mobsters and their allies.
But Mr. McLaughlin, in an interview, described the proposed version of the law as too vague in specifying the reasons the city could use to bar officials from union posts and employees from holding market jobs.
"This bill, as it is presently written, puts into the hands of a single city official, the Commissioner of Business Services, unfettered discretion to decide what is a reasonable cause to remove someone," Mr. McLaughlin added. "That is our main objection, plus the fact that the bill is way too vague and way too broad."
The council is the coordinating and lobbying body for almost 500 A.F.L.-C.I.O. locals representing 1.5 million members.
Spokesmen for the three main unions in the markets denied that their units were under mob control and questioned the constitutionality of the bill.
"This is going to be fought to the Supreme Court," said Anthony Cirillo, the president of a Fulton Fish Market union that is one of the targets of the bill.
Aides to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and some City Council members say the law is needed to invigorate a campaign begun last year to reform the markets through stricter city regulations and oversight. The law would cover the Fulton Fish Market in lower Manhattan, the Hunts Point Produce Market in the Bronx, the Gansevoort Meat Market in Greenwich Village, the Brooklyn Terminal Market in Sunset Park and the Brooklyn Wholesale Meat Market in Canarsie.
Randy M. Mastro, the Deputy Mayor for Operations and one of the chief designers of the bill, said the legislation would not infringe on traditional union rights to organize members, handle grievances, organize boycotts and negotiate contracts with employers. He said that the bill was modeled on laws in New Jersey and in Nevada that allowed state agencies that regulated casinos to eject union officials for Mafia links or misconduct. Those laws have been upheld by the Federal courts.
The five markets covered by the bill are important assets of the city economy. They handle most of the fresh fish and unpackaged fruit, vegetables and meat shipped into the New York region and then sold to retail stores and restaurants. More than 200 businesses, mainly wholesale dealers, in the markets generated more than $3 billion in sales last year and employed 8,000 people.
City and law-enforcement officials assert that for decades mobsters, by handpicking union officials at the markets, extorted money from merchants in return for labor peace, demanded no-show jobs for mobsters and their relatives and got sweetheart union contracts for mob-run companies. The Mafia, the officials say, also used the markets as bases for gambling, loan sharking and money laundering operations as well as for narcotics trafficking.
Mr. Mastro said the proposed law was mostly directed at three union locals in the markets whose officials in the last two decades were linked through convictions and indictments to the Gambino, Genovese and Lucchese crime families.
The unions are the United Seafood Workers Local 359 of the United Food and Commercial Workers, which represents more than 300 employees at the Fulton Fish Market; Local 174 of the United Food and Commercial Workers, which represents 800 employees at the Hunts Point and the Gansevoort Markets, and Local 202 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, with 1,400 members at Hunts Point.
Mr. Cirillo, Local 359's president, said the administration had singled out his union for retaliation because a Federal judge in 1989 rejected a racketeering suit brought by Mr. Giuliani when he was a Federal prosecutor that asserted the local was a tool of the Genovese family.
Daniel J. Kane of the teamsters' Local 202 said the bill "is overkill" because the local had ousted all mob-tainted officials and was being monitored by both court-appointed and independent investigators.
A spokesman for Local 174 and the national Food and Commercial Workers Union, Richard Lipsky, said that the union would lobby to "remove onerous clauses from the bill that abrogate basic union prerogatives and interfere with existing jurisdiction by the National Labor Relations Board."
Last year, the City Council approved a bill proposed by Mayor Giuliani that granted the city the right to determine who could work and operate businesses at the fish market. That law, however, did not apply to unions or their officials at the fish market.
Hearings on the new bill will be held on Thursday, Friday and on Nov. 7 at City Hall before the City Council's Economic Development Committee.

GRAPHIC: Map of New York City showing the location of five major wholesale food markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: FULTON FISH MARKET (70%); HUNTS POINT PRODUCE MARKET (69%); UNITED FOOD&COMMERCIAL WORKERS (61%); BROOKLYN TERMINAL MARKET (56%); NEW YORK CITY CENTRAL LABOR COUNCIL (56%); CITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FULTON FISH MARKET (70%); HUNTS POINT PRODUCE MARKET (69%); UNITED FOOD&COMMERCIAL WORKERS (61%); BROOKLYN TERMINAL MARKET (56%); NEW YORK CITY CENTRAL LABOR COUNCIL (56%); CITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ORGANIZED CRIME ORGANIZED CRIME (92%); CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOOD WHOLESALERS (89%); MAYORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); MEAT WHOLESALERS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); FINGERPRINTING (73%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); RAAB, SELWYN RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



612 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE STATEGY;
PARTIES PRESSING TO RAISE TURNOUT AS ELECTION NEARS

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER 

 BODY:
The final 10 days of the 1996 campaign are shaping up as a furious struggle by the two parties and their allies to get their supporters to the polls, in the face of widespread indications that sagging voter interest may well diminish turnout.
Strategists say that fears on both sides are legitimate after a lopsided and largely static Presidential campaign. Democrats worry that President Clinton's comfortable lead in the polls will cause many would-be supporters to think he no longer needs their votes; Republicans fear that Bob Dole's troubled campaign will so dispirit many of the party faithful that they will simply stay home. In either case, it is the struggle for control of the House of Representatives that could be most affected, many analysts say. 
 Mary Crawford, press secretary for the Republican National Committee, said, "It's totally fair to say that the party, on a national and state level, will be donating unprecedented resources to turning out our voters this year."
Democrats make similar vows. "We saw in 1994 the results of low turnout," said David Eichenbaum, the Democratic National Committee's director of communications. "We lost a number of races by very close margins that had everything to do with turnout and resulted in a Republican Congress that tried to gut a lot of important priorities."
The final drives by the parties and their allied interest groups are well under way, often based on extensive research to identify probable supporters and find the appeals most likely to get them to the polls. This weekend, Democrats are holding rallies and distributing leaflets directed at women from the soccer fields of suburban Baltimore to the Wal-Marts of Georgia. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. has sent 1,000 fresh troops into the field to help unions coordinate the endgame of their effort to oust the Republican House; labor volunteers distributed 100,000 pieces of literature to union members on a single day last week in Washington State.
On the conservative side, the Christian Coalition is distributing 45 million voter guides through 120,000 churches, as well as running get-out-the-vote commercials on Christian radio outlets and getting in touch with more than three million voters by letter, phone and personal visits.
Ralph Reed, the executive director of the coalition, says his voters will know the stakes. "It would be the end of the world to core religious conservatives if Dick Gephardt became Speaker or Tom Daschle became majority leader," he said. "It would make it impossible to move any pro-family legislation through Congress for the foreseeable future, and that's why I'm predicting the largest turnout by religious conservatives ever in a Presidential election."
Still, when it comes to the electorate at large, many analysts say poll data indicate that voters are much less interested in this campaign than they were in the battle between Bill Clinton and President George Bush four years ago. For example, in the most recent New York Times/CBS News Poll, 39 percent said they ould describe this race as interesting, compared with 78 percent who felt that way about the Presidential campaign in October 1992. Another indicator is the decline in audiences for the debates and the conventions this year compared with 1992.
Experts cite several reasons for the shrinking interest: the seeming lack of competition in the Presidential race, the relatively healthy economy compared with the recessionary days of 1992, and the low-key nature of the Ross Perot campaign in contrast to the interest and excitement he generated four years ago. Thomas Patterson, the Benjamin C. Bradlee Professor of Government and the Press at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, said the lack of interest might be less a sign of troubled politics than of comparatively untroubled times. "It's an incumbent running for re-election when the economy looks pretty good and the world seems to be pretty much in control," he said.
As a result, some analysts say this year's turnout might be closer to that of 1988, which was 50.1 percent of the voting-age population, than of 1992, which was 55.2. But there are other analysts who disagree, and maintain that broader, structural forces -- like the aging of the baby boomers -- will push for a higher turnout.
And there are some wild cards. This is the first Presidential election since the National Voter Registration Act, known as the motor-voter law, went into effect. A study released this month on the impact of that law, which was intended to make it easier to register to vote, projected that as of June 30, nine million additional voters had been added to the rolls since the law went into effect in January 1995.
The report, by a nonprofit group called Human Serve, projected that the law, which requires states to permit registration by mail, at welfare and motor-vehicle offices and other state agencies, would result in the largest two-year increase ever in the number of registered voters.
But there are skeptics who wonder whether the final tally will be that high; Curtis Gans, who heads the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate, said he expected final figures to fall "well short" of the Human Serve totals. And some political scientists question whether those newly registered voters will vote.
The pressing political question is just who would gain an advantage from a lower turnout. Andrew Kohut, a pollster at the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, said: "All of my experience indicates lower turnout helps Republicans. But we are seeing in our typology that many of the moderate Republicans and populist Republicans are conflicted about their choices. And when people are conflicted about their choices and uninspired about the top of the ticket, they can stay home rather than make the choice for Clinton."
This uncertainty has fueled the two parties' efforts to mobilize their voters. An example is the Democrats' focus on women, who tilt overwhelmingly toward that party in both the race for the Presidency and the battle for the House, according to the New York Times/CBS News Poll.
Mr. Gans maintains that the most important factor on Election Day may well be the percentage of female voters: In 1992, 54 percent of the people who voted were women, and in 1994, 51 percent, according to surveys of people leaving the polls.
Democratic strategists are convinced that the "drop-off women" -- those who voted in 1992 but not in 1994 -- are critical to their party's fortunes in 1996. "Largely, the women we're targeting are white, noncollege-educated and under 65," said Mary Beth Cahill, the executive director of Emily's List, a women's political group that has worked closely with the Democratic Party on getting out the women's vote.
Emily's List is active in 27 states. It expects to send 7.5 million pieces of mail and will call 500,000 people at least once to get out the vote, Ms. Cahill said. Ann F. Lewis, deputy manager for the Clinton-Gore campaign, said: "Our biggest challenge is to make the connection between the political act and real life, because left to itself, this political system seems remote. A lot of our ads and messages are about making the case that this election is about issues that matter to you and your family and that voting is a responsible act on behalf of you and your children."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: Election Interest and Voter Turnout" tracks number of registered voters who said they are paying "a lot of attention" to the campaign, from January through election day, during 1992 and 1996. Graph also tracks turnout for Presidential elections, as a precentage of the voting-age population, from 1932 through 1992. (Sources: The New York Times/CBS News poll, Vital Statistics on Congress 1993-1994 [Congressional Quarterly, 1994]) (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 103 P.L. 31 NATIONAL VOTER REGISTRATION ACT OF 1993 (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; VOTER BEHAVIOR; ELECTIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); SOCCER (73%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (63%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB BILL CLINTON (92%); TOM DASCHLE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



613 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: By the Way, Giuliani Backs Kemp (and Dole)

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

 BODY:
With a little more than 200 hours left before the Presidential election, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani ended months of hand-wringing yesterday and endorsed the Republican Presidential ticket of Jack Kemp and Bob Dole, virtually in that order.
In fact, the Mayor's long-awaited announcement, made after he met Mr. Kemp at La Guardia Airport, contained not one word of praise for Mr. Dole, except to say that his choice of Mr. Kemp as running mate had opened up the party to Mr. Kemp's themes of inclusiveness and tolerance. By contrast, the Mayor effusively complimented his old friend, Mr. Kemp. 
 "For a long time, the issue was, 'Should the Republican Party broaden itself, should there be a broad tent, an inclusive party?' " Mr. Giuliani said, standing in front of a huge bust of his favorite former Mayor, Fiorello La Guardia, in the rotunda of the Marine Air Terminal. "Jack Kemp was at the core of fighting for that, and Senator Dole in reaching out to him, bringing in others, has been a big step in changing the direction of the party."
He went on to commend Mr. Kemp's performance in the recent debate -- saying nothing about Mr. Dole's -- and even credited Mr. Kemp's ideas for what he said was his own economic success as Mayor. As he and Mr. Kemp left for their box seats at the World Series, Mr. Giuliani did not rule out campaigning for the ticket, if asked.
However tepid, the endorsement may appease concerned Republicans as the Mayor heads into a re-election campaign, but its timing -- just before the end of the race, and on a critical night for the Yankees -- seemed designed to produce as little publicity as possible. That reticence underscores Mr. Giuliani's difficulty in supporting a Republican candidate so far behind in the polls, particularly in a city in which Democrats outnumber Republicans by 5 to 1.
"He's intentionally doing it in the dead of night," said former Mayor Edward I. Koch.
But Mr. Giuliani said he had invited the Republican vice-presidential candidate to a World Series game earlier in the month, and decided that their joint appearance was the best time to declare his intentions. Both he and Mr. Kemp said the last 10 days might be the best moment for such an announcement.
"On the question of waiting so long, maybe I'm like a lot of voters," the Mayor said. "A lot of voters really make up their minds in the last 10 to 12 days of an election. I have made up my mind; I support them."
Mr. Kemp thanked the Mayor on behalf of the ticket, predicting the Republicans would win because of "stand-up" support from people like Mr. Giuliani. "This is a very strong signal from the mayor of the most important financial center on the universe, in this whole global economy," Mr. Kemp said. "He is taking a stand on behalf of the Dole-Kemp ticket and understands we cannot leave our cities behind, recognizes that we have to have an urban policy for America that is inclusionary."
Despite Mr. Dole's unpopularity among the very voters who will shortly choose the next Mayor, Mr. Giuliani had to defuse the tensions simmering within his own party. Republican leaders, still angry about Mr. Giuliani's support for Gov. Mario M. Cuomo in 1994, were prepared to write him out of the party if he had stayed neutral or endorsed President Clinton.
Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, one of Mr. Dole's chief supporters, has already been trying to encourage Alan G. Hevesi, the Democratic city comptroller, to run against the Mayor in 1997, and could have arranged a Republican primary that would have cost the Giuliani campaign time and money. Now such infighting will be stymied or, at best, muted.
"If he had gone the other way, there would have been problems for him," said Assemblyman John Ravitz, a Republican of Manhattan and a close political ally. "Some Republicans would have wondered if they could count on him. But now there won't be a primary, and the troops in every county organization won't be troubled about working hard to make sure he's re-elected."
The Mayor insisted in an interview yesterday that he wasn't particularly concerned about a Republican primary, and had made his decision on the merits. He said that while he has strong disagreements with both Presidential candidates -- including President Clinton's decision to sign the bill overhauling welfare, and Mr. Dole's support of restrictions on benefits to immigrants -- he likes both men personally and believes the disagreements cancel each other out. That allowed him to base his decision on the future direction of the Republican Party, he said.
"I support what Senator Dole has done in opening up the party, and I want to see that movement continue," he said in the interview. "From the point of view of being broader-based, the party is in better shape than it was five years ago. You have people running for high office now with moderate viewpoints, who understand the complexities of how cities operate in America. Whatever happens, I'd like to see that movement expanded." He added that he believes Mr. Kemp understands cities better than Mr. Dole, Mr. Clinton or Vice President Al Gore.
Michael D. McCurry, the White House spokesman, said, "Despite the endorsement, the President, if re-elected, will continue to work with the Mayor to strengthen New York City's economy, reduce crime and address those urban issues on which the Mayor has been a true leader."
 Others familiar with the Mayor's political thinking said that he was concerned about the future of the Republican Party if Mr. Dole is trounced in next week's election. A Clinton landslide, Mr. Giuliani believes, could lead to a fight for the soul of the party that might result in the ascendancy of its right wing.
Although some of his likely Democratic opponents are already planning to remind voters next year of his support for Mr. Dole, Mr. Giuliani said he didn't believe voters would care a year from now.
"My opponents think transitory things like this have a lot of value, but they don't," he said. "Ultimately people will vote based on issues confronting them at the moment, not a year before. Next year at this time will be a long time from now."
Local politicians of varying stripes seemed to agree with Mr. Giuliani's assessment that the announcement would have little effect on either the Presidential race or next year's mayoral race.
"Everyone knows Giuliani is a Republican, a liberal Republican, but he has to support his own party for President," said Claire Shulman, the Borough President of Queens and a Democrat who supports the Mayor.
Mr. Koch, who is frequently at odds with Mr. Giuliani, said he didn't believe the announcement would hurt the Mayor in any way. But neither, he added, will it help the Mayor in Republican circles.
"It comes so late, and so grudgingly, that he's not in any way repairing the damage that ensued when he spit in the eye of every Republican by endorsing Mario Cuomo," Mr. Koch said. He added, laughing, that Mr. Dole is now likely to join the long list of candidates who have lost after receiving the Mayor's blessing.
"Dole is probably saying, 'Why me, Lord?' " Mr. Koch said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Kemp, received a baseball and an endorsement last night from Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ENDORSEMENTS US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BASEBALL (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); KEMP, JACK; DOLE, BOB RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



614 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 8; Page 4; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: WORLD CHAMPS: NOTEBOOK;
Smoltz and Belle: Cream of Free-Agent Crop

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
If someone eagerly gave Kenny Rogers $5 million a year for four years, what would he be willing to give John Smoltz? The pitcher, about to become a free agent, will probably soon find out.
No pitcher has ever been in a better position economically than the one who led the major leagues with 24 victories this season, added four more in the post-season, including one in the World Series, and is a couple of weeks away from winning the Cy Young Award. Smoltz is virtually certain to become the highest-paid pitcher ever, shooting past the $19.5 million, three-year contract David Cone signed with the Yankees 10 months ago. 
 The free-agent season is here. Eligible players will begin filing for free agency today or tomorrow (the day after the end of the World Series) and can begin signing with new teams two weeks hence. Smoltz will be the market's prize pitcher, Albert Belle the most glamorous hitter. The prevailing view among baseball executives is that Smoltz will remain with the Atlanta Braves, but they're not sure if Belle will still be wearing a Cleveland Indians uniform next season.
Smoltz has not set a price for his winning services because his representatives have had no negotiations with the Braves.
"Once the Braves indicated in spring training they didn't want to negotiate, John adopted the approach that he would go through the season and pitch and not talk about a contract," Miles Shoda, one of his two agents, said.
Although talk at the World Series has Belle rejecting $8 million a year for four years and seeking $10 million a year for five years from the Indians, his agent, Arn Tellem, said he has had no talks with the club since early in the season.
"They haven't given us a number since probably a week into the season," Tellem said. "The numbers being talked about now are all speculation by people who don't know." Tellem did not deny that Belle months ago rejected an Indians offer in the $8 million range. And while he declined to say what Belle would ask for, he said, "I'm bringing my N.B.A. perspective to this negotiation."
Tellem also represents basketball players, one of whom, Reggie Miller, got $9 million a year in the wild and wacky ways of National Basketball Association contracts. Tellem said he spoke with John Hart, the Indians' general manager, last week and expects to resume discussions with numbers in them this week.
Belle talk at the World Series also says the Florida Marlins are so interested in him that they would be willing to meet his $50 million price, if that indeed is his price. But the Marlins can't be caught talking to Belle until he declares free agency, and they can't talk money until after the filing period.
"I haven't talked to the Marlins and I'm not allowed to," Tellem said.
The Marlins have also expressed interest in trading for Barry Bonds if the San Francisco Giants are really interested in trading him. Obviously, either/or would suffice as the Marlins try to load up to make Jim Leyland's first Florida team an instant contender.
After Belle, Greg Vaughn, who had a great season for Milwaukee but a poor one for San Diego after being traded there, is the next best hitter who could be available, but the selection of lusty hitters quickly gets sparse.
After Smoltz, the best pitcher who could be on the market is Roger Clemens, who may leave Boston because he and the Red Sox disagree on how long a long-term contract he should have.
Smoltz will almost certainly get what he wants, though he hasn't said what that might be.
"We're going to sit down and meet with John next week and develop our game plan," Shoda said the morning after Smoltz suffered his toughest loss of the season, 1-0, to the Yankees in Game 5 of the World Series on an unearned run. "Soon after that, we'll probably set up meetings with Atlanta. That would indicate to John what it is he'll want to do."
Given that he has pitched for the Braves his entire major league career and he has pitched in post-season games five of the past six post-seasons, Smoltz can be expected to make remaining with Atlanta his first priority.
It's even possible that Smoltz, like his teammate, Fred McGriff, a year ago, will accept less money from the Braves than another team. But Shoda cautioned, "The Braves will have to deal with the issue of free-market value." In other words, he will not give the Braves a bargain-basement deal. Just to make it interesting, Shoda said he expected Smoltz to have "a core of a reasonable number of legitimate suitors."

 
 
Balls and Strikes
 In five starts for Atlanta this post-season, John Smoltz produced a 4-1 record (the loss was 1-0 to an unearned run) and a 0.95 earned run average based on 4 earned runs allowed in 38 innings. Kenny Rogers made three starts for the Yankees, lasted a total of 7 innings, allowed 11 runs (all earned) for a 14.14 e.r.a., faced a total of only 41 batters and gave up 15 hits to 34 batters for a .441 batting average.
In Game 2 of the World Series, Greg Maddux pitched 8 innings, faced 29 batters and threw a total of 20 balls. Two nights later, Rogers threw his 21st ball on his second pitch to Jeff Blauser, the eighth batter he faced.

 
 
Damaged Goods?
 A high-powered trio of Gene Budig, the American League president; Leonard Coleman, the National League president, and Randy Levine, the chief management labor executive, had been scheduled to conduct an arbitration hearing tomorrow in the Yankees' dispute with the Milwaukee Brewers over the Aug. 23 trade of Graeme Lloyd to the Yankees. However, the hearing has been postponed to an undetermined date.
If the hearing is held, can the Yankees' representatives really walk into the hearing room with straight faces and argue that Lloyd, the 6-foot-7-inch Australian relief pitcher, was damaged goods?
That is the same Graeme Lloyd who relieved in eight post-season games, including last night's, and allowed one hit and nothing else to the 15 batters he faced. As poor as many relievers are, they all should be that damaged.

 
 
The Leyland Chase
 Jim Leyland got a head start on the other free agents this off season.
"It was a rare experience," he said. "Talking to the teams was very good, but the experience of the phone ringing every minute of every day because of media people from every city was hectic. We did every interview. We knew people had a job to do. We handled everything. I don't know if I'd want to go through it again."
Leyland, considered one of the best managers in the business, was the target of a recent four-way sprint to secure his services for the next five years or so. He created the race by resigning as manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates because he felt he had endured the team's rebuilding process long enough. The Florida Marlins were the instant favorites to sign him, but California, Boston and the Chicago White Sox waged a spirited competition.
"I thought there were going to be only two teams -- California and Florida," Leyland said. "I didn't know Kevin Kennedy was going to be let go in Boston. I was surprised when the White Sox got into it."
In the end, it was the Marlins who got their man, but not before Leyland went whizzing through an intensive, whirlwind period of pursuit. The decision, he said, was tough.
"It ended up that California and I couldn't work it out," said Leyland, who plans to remain a Pittsburgh resident. "That seemed so far away. That was the first one eliminated. They made a tremendous offer. I was really impressed with Bill Bavasi."
Leyland said he became concerned about the Boston situation. "I heard some grumbling from Boston, that the players were unhappy because management let Kennedy go," he said. "I hate to say I was scared, but I was. It's a great place, a great team. But if I'd go in there and these guys were upset about what happened, I felt in time I could earn their respect but they might not give me a chance."
That left the White Sox and the Marlins, and Leyland said he decided he liked the Florida combination of young players and veterans. "It's a great nucleus," he said. "I felt they would add to the team. They're not that far away."
Leyland, who will have a $1.5 million salary, said he did not hold it against the White Sox that they fired his good friend and coach Gene Lamont as manager 31 games into the 1995 season. "Gene and I talked about that," Leyland said. "He wanted whatever was the best thing for me. He said if that means going to Chicago, you should go. We're mature enough that that had nothing to do with my situation."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cecil Fielder celebrating in the locker room after the Yankees won the World Series last night. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (74%); GEORGIA, USA (55%); OHIO, USA (55%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTA BRAVES (83%); ATLANTA BRAVES (83%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (55%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (83%); ATLANTA BRAVES (83%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (55%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); FLORIDA, USA (74%); GEORGIA, USA (55%); OHIO, USA (55%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (75%); 

PERSON: SMOLTZ, JOHN; BELLE, ALBERT; CHASS, MURRAY KENNETH RAY 'KENNY' ROGERS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



615 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Chirac Removes France as Honest Peace Broker;
No Litmus Test

 BODY:
To the Editor:
While Anthony H. Cordesman (Op-Ed, Oct. 23) is correct that Palestinian poverty threatens the Arab-Israeli peace process, his policy prescription skirts a crucial dilemma: Palestinian economic growth and long-term Israeli security are unlikely to move in a positive direction until they are seen as separate issues. 
 Mr. Cordesman criticizes the Palestinian Authority for being "too slow to understand that economic growth and sovereignty depend on its ability to halt terrorism." He notes that Israel "overreacted by imposing harsh security measures" and blocking exports and laborers from leaving the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. The implication is that the reverse -- tougher Palestinian security measures coupled with a more relaxed Israeli stance -- would inhibit terrorism and promote Palestinian prosperity.
But what if the Palestinians failed to halt terrorism? Economic and political benefits are slow to materialize even under the best of conditions, and some militants are likely to commit violence long into the future. Given a perception of Palestinian failure on halting terrorism, Israeli punitive measures would again derail Palestinian economic hopes.
A better approach would be to de-link economics and security for the sake of Israel's long-term security. Allowing the movement of Palestinian exports and labor, as well as minimizing border closures, would give more Palestinians something to lose and generate more internal calls for stopping anti-Israel violence.
Palestinian poverty will undermine peace prospects, but a security litmus test, whether the enforcer be Israeli or Palestinian, is a way to guarantee continued economic stagnation.
 
JEREMY PRESSMAN
Somerville, Mass., Oct. 23, 1996
 
The writer is a former project associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (72%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS TERRORISM (91%); PEACE PROCESS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); 

PERSON: PRESSMAN, JEREMY TZIPORA LIVNI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



616 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: India's Caste System Bears Legal Scrutiny;
In a Different Guise

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your Oct. 20 Week in Review article cavils at the moribund caste system in India, but the system exists in the United States, in a different guise. The managers in a bicycle factory in India may indeed have all been Brahmins and the cleaners may have been low caste. But the Boston brahmins of American corporations have relegated jobs in the mailroom to the "lower castes," too. 
 Contrary to a suggestion in your article, the caste system is not reinforced in matrimonial advertisements in Indian newspapers. Today almost all such advertisements include the phrase "caste no bar," further evidence of the dying system. In the United States the gap between rich and poor is getting bigger; in India, however, the upper castes are losing the economic status afforded by the caste system.
 
NITA SHAH
Kew Gardens, Queens, Oct. 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (87%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; UNITED STATES; INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (87%); BOSTON, MA, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); TRENDS (69%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (68%); 

PERSON: SHAH, NITA

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



617 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 45; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 5409 words

HEADLINE: The Answer is National Standards

BYLINE: By Sara Mosle; Sara Mosle, a contributing writer for the Magazine, last wrote about the Science Skills Center in Brooklyn.

 BODY:
AMONG THE ISSUES THAT CONCERN MOST AMERICANS, EDUCATION HAS MOVED TO THE top of the list, ranking in some polls above the economy, the environment or even crime. Bill Clinton and Bob Dole have made it a major issue in the Presidential campaign, but their oratory has become so similar and so insular as to cloud rather than clarify their differences. The education debate has been reduced to a single issue, "choice," which both candidates have claimed as their own, grabbing on either side of the term and pulling, like two kids with a beach towel in a game of tug of war. But neither candidate is addressing the problems in most classrooms. I learned about them firsthand in 1992 -- from boats.
I was teaching third grade at a public school in a poor immigrant neighborhood in New York City. At the time, my school had some 1,600 children in a building designed for about half that many. It was an S.U.R. school, a school under review. The reading and math scores were so low that it was in danger of being taken over by the state. 
 My students had just come back from lunch one day, and in their absence I had set up for that afternoon's science experiment. Every third-grade teacher in the district taught three units in science, one of which was boats, or "why things float." Students were supposed to construct boats from clay, aluminum foil or paper to test whether they would float or carry cargo like paper clips and then to draw conclusions about which designs were best and the nature of buoyancy. The philosophy behind this hands-on inquiry approach was sound enough: kids would act like real scientists, collect and interpret data, learn the laws of nature through observation and then write up reports about what they had discovered. But the theory, as is often the case, foundered on the hard rocks of practice.
I had laid out newspaper, a plastic tub of water and lumps of clay on several clusters of desks so that students could work together in groups of four. I'd seen this approach demonstrated beautifully in my ed.-school courses, but almost always in small "alternative" settings, with lots of supplies and assistance and managed by teachers who had developed and refined their methods over years. Grace in the classroom does not spring, Athena-like, full grown from the heads of even the best ed.-school programs.
With 32 kids in my class, I couldn't fit eight groups of four desks in the room. In such cramped quarters, kids frequently bumped into one other, resulting in spills. Wet clay, I quickly discovered, is extremely difficult to wash off, particularly when there are 64 muddy hands and one small sink. Despite trash-bag aprons, the clay got on everything: clothes, desks, books. One teacher poked her head in during a lesson and asked incredulously, "You're actually doing this with so many kids?" I nodded weakly, my clothes covered in clay, my hair frazzled, the classroom a mess.
Most teachers, I later learned, simply did demonstration experiments in front of their classes. (So much for hands-on learning.) And who could blame them? There were no background materials for teachers, no histories of science nor interesting tales about real scientists to inspire kids. Most of my students were recent immigrants from the Dominican Republic, with limited English, who desperately needed exposure to scientific vocabulary. We were supposed to be inculcating a love of reading in our kids, but they almost never got a chance to read nonfiction. Yes, yes, I could haul in books from the local library, create research projects from scratch, design a thematic unit around the "Titanic," but curriculum building of this sort takes exceptional amounts of time, energy and devotion.
I'd see my middle-class friends and painfully realize that their kids grasped entire subject areas about which my students knew nothing: the organs of the body, the solar system, photosynthesis, rockets, dinosaurs, creatures of the ocean. Their kids hadn't learned about such things solely from hands-on experiences with, say, bodily organs, but from reading or being read to at home; they had begun to explore their interests through reading and were building up a wealth of knowledge on a wide range of subjects. I despaired at the discrepancy between what they and my students knew, and doubted that "boats" was going to help bridge the gap. I began to yearn for the kind of textbooks that I had once loved as a kid: big, beautiful books that I liked just holding, smoothing down their shiny pages of colorful illustrations and photographs.
Certainly, science lessons should include experiments, but boats, at the time, constituted a third of the science curriculum in my district. Too often, lessons deteriorated into the children drawing an endless series of boats in their lab books. It's axiomatic among many educators that kids in poorer urban schools don't get the frills, like art, that more affluent students do. If anything, my students got too much of it.
 NEVER, IN ALL OF AMERICAN HISTORY, HAVE ELEMENTARY AND secondary students taken more standardized tests. Yet there are no standards in American public education, no officially recognized, agreed-on expectations of what students should know at each level of schooling. Curriculums vary widely, not only within cities and states but also within individual schools. Report after report has shown that American children study too many subjects, too superficially, and spend way too much time taking electives that don't give them the basic skills they need to get even a blue-collar job after high school. And particularly in poorer urban schools, kids are shuffled into tracks in which they take different courses, from driver's ed. to advanced calculus, that determine their career prospects, often before their teens.
In the global economy, Americans worry about our ability to compete, but we don't do for our children what other countries do for theirs. Nearly every other industrialized nation has a core curriculum that stipulates what students must learn in subjects like math, science, literature and history in order to graduate from one level of schooling to the next. The standardized tests used to measure such progress are limited in number and are content-based, designed for the curriculum, and typically require analytical essays as well as multiple-choice answers. Students know exactly what's expected of them; notions of achievement are associated with effort, not inherent ability, and everyone receives help to meet the same goals. What's more, this system has produced higher and more equitable levels of achievement (particularly in science and math) than in the United States -- even in countries like France, which also contends with a large immigrant population. National standards not only boost the achievement of disadvantaged students but also raise academic levels systemwide.
In the United States, by contrast, expectations of students are vague, almost insuring inequality of educational opportunity and achievement. Students are besieged with standardized tests, yet most have little connection to what they study in school; consequently, teachers are encouraged to teach "test-taking skills" rather than specific content. The most important standardized test in America, for instance, is the S.A.T., which is an aptitude rather than an achievement exam, meaning that its emphasis is on general ability rather than knowledge of particular subjects.
Getting back to basics, of course, is a hardy perennial in educational reform. What distinguishes the current standards movement from past hortatory rhetoric is that it emphasizes equal opportunity as much as achievement, through a national curriculum -- goals on which both liberals and conservatives should be able to agree. The present movement is led by three figures: Diane Ravitch, who worked in the Education Department under former President Bush; E. D. Hirsch Jr., an author who describes himself as a political liberal and an educational conservative, and Albert Shanker, the union boss and longtime head of the American Federation of Teachers. The most unlikely of the three, Shanker is actually the one who has pushed the longest and the hardest for standards.
Presidents Clinton and Bush have also supported the idea of national standards. Clinton's Goals 2000 initiative, which is almost indistinguishable from Bush's America 2000, offers funds to states to develop standards on their own. Neither political party, however, has ever really campaigned vigorously for the issue. Instead, both have embraced choice as a panacea to what ails our public-school system. By choice, Dole and other Republicans mean publicly funded vouchers for parents to send their kids to private or parochial schools. Democrats and the teachers' unions both oppose vouchers, and the Dole attacks on the "militant teachers' unions" and on the President are best understood as shots fired in this vouchers war.
At the Democratic convention, President Clinton also voiced his support for choice -- by which he means public-school choice, in which parents can send their kids to any one of a number of public or charter schools instead of being assigned by geography. Some 25 states have established charter laws that create public schools free from constraints like union seniority rules and special education mandates. And some states, including New York, have what amount to charter schools without charter laws; in the last few years, some 50 new "alternative" public schools have opened in New York City as part of a growing choice system. Still, as a movement, choice lags behind many other reforms. Out of approximately 85,000 public schools nationwide, there are only 475 charter schools, while only 120 private schools accept vouchers in two states. As Shanker has pointed out, starting a school from scratch is like starting a small business, and half of all new businesses fail. Public-school choice and charter schools would reform the current system; vouchers could potentially destroy it.
Choice, however, makes no sense without standards, for how can parents choose without a means to compare schools? Resistance to standards, though, comes from both liberal and conservative quarters. Progressive educators, who historically have concerned themselves with how learning occurs, worry that a national curriculum would lead to more rote exercises, unimaginative teaching and a greater reliance on standardized tests, which they see as biased against poor and minority-group children. And conservatives, who you might think would cozy up to standards, are deeply suspicious of any sort of outside meddling in their neighborhood schools. Several districts, for instance, have turned down Federal funds offered under Goals 2000 rather than cede any perceived control of their schools to the Federal Government.
Yet for all the cries of "more local control," the American education system remains one of the most decentralized in the industrialized world. There are some 15,000 local school districts in this country, and they are run and financed almost entirely at the state and local level. If our schools are failing, as some people claim, it probably argues against, rather than for, more local control, which is exactly the point that standards advocates make. Conservatives like to point to international comparisons to demonstrate how poorly American students are doing. What they fail to note is that most other industrialized nations do not rely on a voucher system to achieve their superior results. The Dutch, for instance, instituted a voucher system many years ago, and today the Netherlands exhibits the least consistent school quality in northern continental Europe. Some 16 percent of Dutch schools perform below par, Hirsch reports, compared with 1 to 5 percent of subpar schools in the nonchoice systems of Denmark, Japan and South Korea. What these nations do share is a national, standardized curriculum.
The American population is highly mobile -- which means choice without standards will only make things worse. My first year teaching, some 10 students transferred in or out of my class -- the norm in many poorer urban schools. But even the average child changes schools some five times between the 1st and 12th grades, and each time, his or her chances of graduating decreases 2.6 percent, regardless of family background or income. Schools must respond to this mobility by providing a more uniform system that will make dislocations less disruptive.
In order to earn a middle-class income, workers today must have "hard skills" in reading and math "at levels much higher than many high-school graduates now attain," Richard Murnane and Frank Levy write in their new book, "Teaching the New Basic Skills." These authors note that while "soft skills" like the ability to work in groups or make oral presentations will also be vital, companies like Diamond-Star Motors and Honda typically require job applicants to pass standardized tests in basic skills before they can even move on to the "soft" portion of the interview.
Standardized tests, in other words, are not some artificial measure imposed by educators but are a real-world exercise that many employers now use to weed out applicants, precisely because they have lost faith in the meaning of a high-school diploma. And far from being discriminatory, standardized measures tend to be fairer. "Skills tests are less biased [against ghetto blacks] than the subjective assessments used in the typical interview," William Julius Wilson writes in his new study, "The Disappearance of Work."
The relationship between a 17-year-old's math scores and his or her hourly wage seven years later has grown stronger rather than weaker over the last two decades. When Murnane and Levy talk about "strong math skills," they are not referring to calculus but to the simple use of fractions and decimals in one- or two-step problems. And by comparing the cut-off points of employer tests to the student scores on national standardized exams, they discover that "close to half of all 17-year-olds cannot read or do math at the level needed to get a job in a modern automobile plant."
Even surfing the Internet requires an ability to spell a World Wide Web address flawlessly or to read often very dense material on the screen. It may be hypertext, but it is still text. It is true that I have forgotten much of what I learned in high-school math or science, but that is partly because I did not become a doctor, an architect or engineer. Yet all these professions remained open to me into my 20's because I had the preparation in high school to take premed or advanced math courses in college. For my students, however, I began to see doors closing as early as third grade. They were not getting the elemental skills they needed to take more advanced courses in junior high and high school, which would in turn make entry into a wide variety of professions possible.
"Nations that establish national standards do so to insure equality of education as well as higher achievement," Diane Ravitch writes in "National Standards in American Education: A Citizen's Guide," because "they make explicit what they expect children to learn to insure that all children have access to the same educational opportunities."
Here, Catholic schools provide a powerful example. Most of them, even those that serve disadvantaged children, expect all students to take a core curriculum that will prepare them for college. While the achievement gap between disadvantaged and more privileged students widens in high school, it actually narrows dramatically in most parochial institutions. Yet Anthony Bryk, Valerie Lee and Peter Holland, who compiled these statistics in "Catholic Schools and the Common Good," do not conclude that America should adopt a voucher system. Instead, they credit the Catholic schools' reliance on a core curriculum -- on standards.
 IN THE FIRST QUARTER of this century, there was not a great need for "standards" because most Americans did not make it to the eighth grade. Recent immigrants and the poor often climbed the economic ladder by attending vocational schools. Only the children of the middle and upper classes generally pursued higher education. Not until mid-century, after Brown v. Board of Education and the height of the civil rights movement, did the United States even begin to make good on its promise to educate its children equally. The testing industry initially sprouted, as Nicholas Lemann has written, as a means of assisting elite colleges to select scholarship students.
But as the public schools began opening their doors to a wider array of students in the 1960's, the need for students to reach higher levels of academic achievement also mounted as low-skill, high-paying jobs began to disappear. The standards movement is partly a reaction to this economic reality.
In the 1960's, as many minority-group parents and liberal academics became understandably discouraged by the slow pace of educational progress, they began to call for more reforms: community control, a racial diversity in faculty and curriculum and less reliance on tests that were regarded as culturally biased. In 1968, a battle erupted between an experimental community board in Ocean Hill-Brownsville and the teachers' union in New York City. The board, in a bid to gain complete control over its local schools, managed to dismiss and replace hundreds of teachers in the A.F.T.'s local, the United Federation of Teachers. The leader of the union, Albert Shanker, called a series of strikes and at one point some 55,000 members walked out for 36 days in what was then the longest teachers' strike in the nation's history. The bitter battle, which pitted the largely black school board against the union's predominantly white Jewish leadership, soured relations between Jews and blacks in the city and led to the "decentralization" of the city's school system into 32 semiautonomous community districts, which are still in place.
At the time, Shanker was widely regarded, as he later put it, as a "powerful madman," a reactionary who supported more discipline and higher academic standards in schools. In Woody Allen's 1973 film, "Sleeper," Allen's character wakes up after being frozen for 200 years to discover that civilization as he knew it had disappeared. When he asks what happened, he learns that "a man named Albert Shanker got a hold of a nuclear warhead." But history has largely vindicated Shanker's role in the strike. Most city officials now agree that decentralization has failed, and nowhere more so than in poorer school districts, which have been subject to exactly the kind of political patronage and corruption that Shanker warned against.
At 68, Shanker is now regarded as "education's elder statesman," as Teacher magazine recently put it. Perceptions of him have changed largely by his standing still. Far from unqualifiedly praising the nation's public schools, he is often their harshest critic and, in recent years, he has occasionally turned his newspaper column "Where We Stand" into a bully pulpit for creating a national curriculum. It has appeared as a weekly union advertisement for the last 28 years in, among other places, The New York Times each Sunday. So outspoken is he that the A.F.T.'s executive board once had to vote on whether or not to try to muzzle him. "We decided to let Al be Al," says Sandra Feldman, the president of New York's United Federation of Teachers, the A.F.T. local that Shanker built up in the 1960's from 2,400 members to a 60,000-strong organization that would strike on his command.
Like Diane Ravitch, Shanker, who was active in the civil rights movement, sees standards as an equity issue -- the only assurance that disadvantaged children will receive the knowledge they need to succeed. "The idea that we can't have national standards and curriculums because every state and, indeed, every locality wants to create its own is bunk," Shanker wrote in a typically blunt column. "We already have a national curriculum -- but it is set by textbook publishers, and its standards are very low."
Feldman recalls the moment that Shanker first urged the union to reform itself. The year was 1983, on the eve of a union convention in New York, and Shanker, Feldman and the union's executive board had gathered in a hotel suite to read advance copies of the "Nation at Risk" report. Feldman recalls: "We all had this visceral reaction. You know, 'This is horrible! They're attacking teachers.' Everyone was watching Al to hear his response. When Al finished reading the report, he closed the book and looked up at all of us and said, 'The report is right, and not only that, we should say that before our members.' And that's what he did. It was a really courageous thing for him to do."
As a union leader, Shanker has always confounded easy stereotyping, especially by conservatives. He helped to orchestrate the first "national education summit" under President Bush in 1989 and then this past March under President Clinton. He was instrumental in helping to create both the America 2000 and Goals 2000 programs. And each of the last two years, the A.F.T. has issued a "National Report Card" on the efforts of states to create rigorous, content-specific goals in English, math, social studies and science. (The A.F.T. estimates that adequate standards and means of assessment in all four areas exist in only 14 states.)
"Look, I agree with Al Shanker four days out of every five," concedes Chester E. Finn Jr., a former Assistant Secretary of Education in the Reagan Administration and a senior fellow at the conservative Hudson Institute. "But he is not representative of his union. He is way ahead of his membership." When I told Shanker of Finn's comments, he let out a rare low chuckle. "But that's not what Dole and other Republicans say," Shanker said, his dark eyes glinting behind thick, nerdy glasses and his usually impassive pudding-white face crackling into a wide mischievous grin. "They say it's the union leaders who are awful and the members who are wonderful." His laughter rumbled like a distant thunderstorm.
We were talking at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, where he was undergoing radiation treatment. Shanker had bladder cancer two years ago and recovered, but he was diagnosed with lung cancer in April. Nevertheless, he remains active. Although he was in a period of chemotherapy, he attended the A.F.T.'s biennial convention in Cincinnati in August at which he delivered one of his trademark Castro-length speeches, presided over caucuses and was unanimously elected to another two-year term. Sitting upright recently in his hospital bed, his dour, basset-hound face was as immobile as ever. But underneath his thin, white hospital sheet, I spied two narrow, dark, nylon-socked feet robustly pumping as he talked, like pistons in a steam engine.
At the convention, the A.F.T. issued a report offering qualified support of charter schools, but Shanker, who wishes that the support had been stronger, still finds the emphasis on charter laws as the the chief means of school reform misplaced. "At the moment," he argues, "public schools take all comers." With a voucher system, he says, "you'll end up with kids of different religions, nationalities and languages going off to different schools to maintain their separateness, and I think we'd have a terrible social price to pay for it. You'll end up with creationist schools, Louis Farrakhan schools."
Many voucher advocates have been disappointed by the lack of studies demonstrating that such programs have dramatically boosted student achievement. But this summer they were given a lift by the publication of a report that retabulated data that had already been collected on a Milwaukee voucher program; the new study claimed to show what the old study hadn't: students in the voucher schools made significant gains over comparable public-school students. Conservative commentators seized upon the report as proof that vouchers work. However, recent articles in The New Republic and The Wall Street Journal have raised serious questions about the statistical validity of the new study. "It shows you the danger of trying to rely on statistics if you had a market system," says Shanker. Without standards, making objective comparisons is difficult at best.
Shanker insists that most teachers and parents actually want the same things for children: tougher academic standards and better discipline. Boiled down to its Brechtian essence, "grub first, then ethics," Shanker's reform message is "standards first, then choice." He says, "If we had a system of standards and assessments in place, then as far as I'm concerned every school should be a charter school."
 JUST HOW EFFECTIVE A standard curriculum can be is evident at Mohegan, a K-8 public school in the South Bronx that uses E. D. Hirsch's "core knowledge" sequence through the sixth grade. His curriculum, which was compiled by educators across the country and introduced in 1990, is one working model of what a national curriculum might look like. It specifies lesson content in the basic subjects, with each year building on the last. Already some 350 schools have adopted Hirsch's curriculum, and initial qualitative reports are impressive.
Jeffrey Litt is the principal of the school and, at 48, has a dark salt-and-pepper beard and still lets off a faint whiff of 60's radicalism. He is an ardent disciple of both Hirsch and Shanker. "Shanker is one of my heroes," he says. "I've been in the system for more than 20 years and I've seen it all: open classrooms, the old math, the new math. I've seen every methodology, but core knowledge is the first thing that's made sense to me, because it makes content the priority. For children to be successful as adults, they need a shared body of knowledge so they'll be able to communicate, write an article, understand a story in the paper about the Supreme Court. Shanker is right on the money with regards to standards."
Litt and I were sitting in his office, a large room with high ceilings in a gothic, five-story 1925 building that serves 939 kids. The school is neither a choice nor a charter program. Mohegan's students, most of whom are black or Latino and qualify for the free-lunch program, come from the surrounding neighborhood. Although it has an association with the Manhattan Institute, which provides some funds and extensive institutional support, it looks very much like a traditional public school in New York, at least at first glance.
When Litt took over the school in 1988, it was decrepit. There had been five principals in the previous two years. Fire had damaged the building, and there was graffiti on the walls, the smell of urine in the stairwells and an atmosphere of chaos and defeat throughout. The district was once known for its corruption. "There were no books, no pencils," he recalls. "The school had been cleaned out."
Litt describes how Hirsch's core knowledge curriculum has given his students and teachers badly needed direction, but he also touches on many of the problems faced by urban principals and teachers. Forty-four percent of all teachers in Mohegan's district are "permanent substitutes" and consequently have little or no training. Teacher turnover is high, and so his staff cannot afford to redesign the curriculum each year as more stable schools can.
"Teachers who disagree with Shanker are afraid of standards; they fear they won't be able to add their own flavor or creativity," Litt says. But in the classes that I visited, teachers were not promoting bloodless rote learning. Their methods were mostly a hybrid -- part traditional, part progressive -- avoiding easy caricature.
"Before core, there was no sequence," says Evelyn Hernandez, a fifth-grade teacher who has worked at the school since 1988. "Teachers taught whatever they wanted, but nothing was connected. They weren't building the knowledge or the background that children needed to be critical thinkers. But after we implemented core in 1991, the content was much more exciting than in their textbooks. I knew what I was supposed to be doing. The curriculum provided the topic, but I could teach it however I wanted. I have a lot more freedom and flexibility. In fifth grade, we learn about the Aztecs and the Incas and the Mayans, but every year I teach it differently, so I don't get bored. Some years, it might be a drama; others, we might make headdresses -- whatever the kids are geared to -- but they learn the same information."
Nancy Sorokin used to teach in Riverdale, an affluent section of the Bronx, and says her mostly upper-income parents used to complain, "You're teaching the kids too much!" She laughs. This fall, by the third week of school, she already had her routines in place with her first-grade class. Desks were arranged in groups in a classroom as cramped as my own had been. Her approach was a mixture of phonics (in which kids learn to read by sounding out words) and whole language (in which they learn by reading words in context). First, she reviewed some of the letter sounds, and then students came together to read "Skip to My Lou," a rhyming big-book. Kids could read along, pick out complicated rhymes on their own and learn the names and habits of different farm animals. This was the core curriculum content for the start of the first grade. It was not unlike the many demonstration videos I had seen in my courses in ed. school. The kids were engaged and already reading at a higher level than some third graders.
 STANDARDS advocates like Shanker have essentially offered a trade-off with more progressive-minded educators: standards for charter schools. It's a deal that those on both the left and right can accept. There are a thousand ways to teach American history. Standards dictate minimum content, not method, and while there are certain to be debates about exactly what will be taught, the discussion can begin by looking at the curriculums of other industrialized nations. These do not need to be massive guides, such as many school districts put out for each subject in every grade. The Japanese goals for elementary and secondary education are encapsulated in three slim volumes. Conciseness demands specificity.
Education, of course, in the American fashion, aims to enrich lives, not just to line pockets. But you cannot think critically if you do not have something to think about; content matters. It does not empower students to teach them about power without giving them the power to succeed.
Still, progressive educators are right to point out that too many American classrooms remain dull and lifeless. But standards advocates are not arguing for a return to rote learning. The sensitivity to children's needs and differences, the ability to inspire intellectual curiosity and excitement exist independent of method. Schools should be allowed to use whatever approach they would like and then be held accountable for the results on substantive, content-based exams that are geared to the curriculum.
In recent years, many educators have advocated replacing standardized tests with "portfolios" of students' work -- essays, short stories, videos, plays -- in an attempt to measure hard-to-quantify abilities. Though as a means of learning portfolios are wonderful, as a means of testing they are too subjective, too labor-intensive and consequently too costly to implement on a national scale. Every system requires trade-offs; some students will always perform better on certain kinds of tests. We would be better off reforming the tests we have, combining essay and multiple-choice questions to evaluate a wide range of skills.
Standards, of course, will be meaningless unless cities and states devote the resources necessary to helping students meet them. Schools and classes need to be smaller, and a new curriculum will require new supplies.
Americans have never been more interested in education reform since, perhaps, the days of Horace Mann. Whoever takes the oath as President on Jan. 20, 1997, would be wise to seize the moment and advocate the creation of a national curriculum with high-stakes assessments and the means to help students meet them. Will the real education President please stand up?

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Mogegan, a public school in the South Bronx, a "core knowledge" curriculum has produced impressive results for students and teachers alike. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY GREENFIELD-SANDERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 47)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; TESTS AND TESTING STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); BOAT BUILDING (74%); BEACHES (70%); 

PERSON: MOSLE, SARA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



618 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 52; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 2363 words

HEADLINE: The Worst Job in The World?

BYLINE: By Claudia Dreifus; Claudia Dreifus is a contributing writer for the Magazine. Her most recent interview was with Kareem Abdul-Jabbar.

 BODY:
During the early months of the Clinton Presidency, when the White House was mired in aborted appointments -- Lani Guinier, Kimba Wood, Zoe Baird -- the nomination of a longtime immigration expert named Doris M. Meissner sailed through the Senate. As Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, she would have a high-profile job that has always been controversial: keeping open America's front door while slamming shut the back.
"Doris was everyone's idea of the perfect public servant," says Attorney General Janet Reno, Meissner's boss. Throughout Washington, Meissner was considered a thoughtful expert on migration issues, having served as Acting I.N.S. Commissioner under President Ronald Reagan and as director of the Immigration Policy Project of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. "What's so special about her," says Reno, "in a town where a lot of people are focused on their position and their power, is that I've never seen her ego intrude on her decision making." 
 Meissner has had a busy time in office, with the I.N.S. beset by management scandals. A June 1995 riot at the I.N.S.'s Esmor detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., drew attention to inhumane conditions within the agency's holding system. That same month, when a Congressional delegation flew down to inspect I.N.S. operations in Miami, local immigration officials released or moved detainees to other jails to disguise overcrowded conditions. This year, at Mexican border crossings in San Diego, I.N.S. agents were accused of returning aliens to Mexico without counting them, to make it appear as if illegal crossings had been curtailed.
And then came election season. Meissner's agency became ground zero for an often raw debate. Nativist proclamations emanated from talk radio and the more conservative quarters of politics; Pete Wilson, Pat Buchanan and Bob Dole all blamed an ineffectual Clinton Administration for a leaky border.
"For years, observers have consistently rated I.N.S. as one of the worst-managed, least-effective Federal agencies," says Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas and chairman of the House Subcommittee on Immigration. "And too little has happened on this Administration's watch, aside from blatant self-promotion, to change that reality."
Meissner, of course, defends her agency's record. She is soft-spoken but firm. During five interviews in her Washington office, she didn't seem to utter a single unintended word. Yet beneath that control is a woman who has recently emerged from a personal nightmare. The April airplane crash in Croatia that killed Commerce Secretary Ron Brown also killed Charles F. Meissner, the Assistant Secretary for International Economic Policy and Doris Meissner's husband of 32 years. Several weeks after his death, she returned to her desk.

Q: The Senate's retiring immigration expert, Alan Simpson, says you have the worst job in the world.
 
Meissner: I read where he said that. Well, I think the Immigration Service is a fascinating place. I don't think that in my lifetime the immigration issue has ever had the saliency and the resonance that it has at this moment. This is the second-largest immigration period in our country's history. Only a few years ago, we had about 300,000 naturalizations a year. In 1994 that jumped to about 500,000 and in 1995 to 1,000,000. And with the new welfare reform legislation that Congress has just passed [which prevents most noncitizens from getting public assistance], I suspect the numbers will go up.

Q: To curb illegal immigration from Mexico, Pat Buchanan has suggested a fence along the Southwest border.
 
A: How are we going to do that? What Buchanan is missing is that "the border" is a lot bigger than our 2,000-mile frontier with Mexico. Our borders are also the beaches of Florida, the airports and overseas consulates where visas are issued. About 40 percent of the illegal immigrants in this country are people who have overstayed legally issued documents.
Now, there's a 14-mile stretch of San Diego that has traditionally accounted for 50 percent of the people illegally crossing into the United States, and that is an area where we're gaining control. We're fortifying the border, infusing people, technology and equipment. We're doing fencing where it makes sense.

Q: Congress has just passed a comprehensive immigration bill. Give us your assessment of the good, the bad and the ugly.
 
A: The good is what didn't happen with this bill. The Gallegly amendment [which would have thrown the children of illegal immigrants out of public schools] was defeated. A back-door set of changes [aimed at curbing] legal immigration was dropped. Fundamentally, the new law helps by maintaining a distinction between legal and illegal immigration.
On the other side, the new law has deportation provisions that are mandatory and retroactive and that will affect a lot of people who've been here for a long time. I can see a great deal of pressure coming down on the agency -- a lot of telephone calls to me and private legislation on behalf of individuals -- and the I.N.S. will be viewed as the bad guy, as harsh and unrelenting, when in fact we're just carrying out the will of Congress.

Q: Congress also grafted substantial revisions in immigration law onto several pieces of unrelated legislation. The welfare reform law, for instance, has a section barring legal immigrants from receiving most benefits. How will these changes affect the I.N.S.?

A: Nobody disputes that illegal immigrants should be denied benefits. But they are already ineligible for all the major cash-assistance programs. This welfare bill said that those who've come in legally, who've played by the rules and are paying taxes will, should they fall on hard times, not be treated the way citizens are. That's a major change in the social contract.
There is a right way and a wrong way to deal with illegal immigration. The right way is to prevent and deter illegal entry at the borders, and also at the workplace. Most people who come into the country illegally come for jobs. So being effective means making it hard for an illegal immigrant to get employment. Yet with this Congress, it's been an uphill battle to get resources for employer enforcement.

Q: George Soros, the financier and philanthropist, read about the new immigration law and said, "I am appalled by Congress's recent action to deny vital public assistance to noncitizens who are lawfully resident in this country," and he set up a $50 million fund to help counter it. Do you find it embarrassing that a private figure felt compelled to do this?
 
A: Why should I find it embarrassing? It's a fabulous and noble thing he has done. I'm distressed and sorry that the circumstances are such that there's a need for such a step.

Q: In the book "Alien Nation," Peter Brimelow argued that high immigration levels -- particularly from underdeveloped countries -- were going to wreck this country. How do you feel about his point, that race and ethnicity should be factors in determining immigration policy?
 
A: I didn't read his book, but I do know this: We are a society committed to equal opportunity, and in 1965 we rejected national origins as a basis of immigration. But race and ethnicity are not the dispositive factors here. The crucial issue is the strength of our civil society. We have to be absolutely certain that new people learn that we live in a democratic society where there are certain things we do -- vote, send the kids to school, pick up the trash, join the P.T.A. Speaking English is the single most important factor in immigrants' making a success of it.

Q: So you oppose the idea of national origins being a factor in immigration policy. But the new bill requires that any American wishing to sponsor immigrants must have an income 125 percent above the poverty level. Previously, a sponsor needed only an income at poverty level. Doesn't this discriminate against immigrants from poor countries?

A: This was something we opposed. At first, Congress had this at 200 percent, then 140 percent; 125 percent was the compromise.

Q: A lot of proposals floating around state legislatures are aimed at throwing the children of illegal immigrants out of public schools. Do you find such ideas helpful?
 
A: No. I also disagree with the similar notion of barring the U.S.-born children of illegals from citizenship. Now, it used to be that a child born in the United States would create the basis for the parents getting legal status. That has been changed -- the parents cannot get legal status until the child is 21. It's hard to imagine that people come and have a baby for the sake of waiting 21 years in order to get legal status.

Q: Alan Simpson insists they do.
 
A: Well, the evidence does not show that. I mean, this is an area in immigration where the cure is worse than the disease. If you were to have this provision where children born of illegals would not become citizens, you would build into the society a class that would never have any rights. That's not healthy for the rest of us.

Q: New Americans almost always describe their experiences with the immigration service as Orwellian nightmares. Are they exaggerating?
 
A: Well, this has not been an agency known for its customer friendliness. And I don't know if it can become that. Our people are often in a position of being surly because they haven't been equipped to do their jobs properly. They work in terrible and demoralizing settings; they lack the modern information systems they need to give reliable information; they rely on byzantine forms and too many forms.

Q: One of the agency's more customer-friendly innovations has been a program called Citizenship U.S.A., which speeds up the processing of naturalization applications and often has mass swearing-in ceremonies, at which you occasionally preside. Why has this program made some Republicans in Congress so angry?
 
A: Citizenship is one of those issues that's very easy to support until it seems that you're doing it in a serious fashion. And we are. And we've done it in the face of extraordinary numbers of applications. If we had kept doing business as usual, we would now be hearing an unbelievable cacophony of criticism about our inefficiency, our ineffectiveness.

Q: Recently there have been three I.N.S. management scandals: in Elizabeth, Miami and San Diego. What have you done about them?
 
A: At the New Jersey detention center we basically ended the relationship with the contractor because there were substantial deficiencies, failures, things wrong. Then we put into place a whole series of corrective measures. And we will not reopen that facility until I am convinced that all the corrective measures have been addressed.
Now, the Miami situation is one where we received a report from the Justice Department Inspector General, and it was very damaging. As soon as I read the report, we reassigned four senior managers to nonsupervisory duties.
In terms of San Diego, we have allegations from a Border Patrol union leader who says he has information that we manipulated numbers in order to make Operation Gatekeeper look good. As soon as we got those allegations, we put our internal audit staff onto it, sent them to San Diego to Border Patrol musters and asked people to come forward with information. We have broadened the investigation so that it is now a joint I.N.S.-Justice Department investigation. We did a macro review of the apprehension numbers vis-a-vis fingerprint data to see if there is any reason to imagine that anybody manipulated numbers. There's no data that lead us to conclude that any manipulation of the numbers was done.

Q: Weren't your own parents immigrants?
 
A: Oh, yes, they came from Germany in the 1920's, separately. My father passed through Ellis Island in 1927 without problems. Still, for years he had a lot of anxiety. At one point his naturalization papers were lost in a fire, and there was incredible concern about whether he could get a copy. When your parents are immigrants, you grow up understanding immigration in a way that you never could from a textbook: how precious and difficult it is.

Q: As a young woman, what did you expect to be doing with your life?
 
A: Well, I didn't have career expectations the way we talk about them now. I married my husband the day before I graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1963. We'd met during my freshman year, studied together, supported each other, were pals together. One factor that made my later professional life possible was that my husband was totally open to, shall we say, a nontraditional set of assumptions. He was always one of my biggest promoters. And I his. I don't know how to depict it for you. He was just a really decent, nice man.

Q: The San Diego allegations were made while you were still mourning your husband. While you were dealing with that, FAIR, the Federation for American Immigration Reform, called for your resignation.
 
A: Well, that comes with the territory, and I have no intention of resigning. I think the most important thing about their press release was that nobody jumped on the bandwagon.

Q: You returned to your office a month after your husband was killed. Was it difficult to go back so quickly?
 
A: Well, of course it was. But what else would you do? I mean, what else would you do? I have a purpose here. It was very hard. It continues to be.

Q: Washington is thought to be a coldhearted town. How did people treat you after your husband's death?
 
A: The day after the terrible news, Alice Rivlin and Donna Shalala were in my living room. Janet Reno took me to dinner, but then, Janet Reno has always been there for me. I don't know how to get my arms around it all. One friend came to pay a condolence call and she looked at my piano and asked, "Do you play now?" My daughter said, "She plays when she's sad." And I said, "I've been playing lately, but the piano is so out of tune that I sound lousy." The next day a piano tuner showed up at my door.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Doris Meissner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELFIE SEMOTAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 53); Meissner at a naturalization ceremony in Dallas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANNY TURNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 54)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); CROATIA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (93%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (93%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); CROATIA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION IMMIGRATION (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); REFUGEES (77%); POLITICS (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); SCANDALS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BORDER CONTROL (69%); CONSERVATISM (68%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (60%); 

PERSON: DREIFUS, CLAUDIA; MEISSNER, DORIS M (COMR); MEISSNER, CHARLES F BILL CLINTON (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); LAMAR SMITH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



619 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 38; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 4203 words

HEADLINE: Hank Williams. Garth Brooks. BR5-49?

BYLINE: By Peter Applebome; Peter Applebome is chief national education correspondent for The New York Times. This is adapted from "Dixie Rising: How the South Is Shaping American Values, Politics and Culture," to be published in November by Times Books/Random House.

 BODY:
LATE ONE AFTERNOON IN AUGUST 1995, TIM DUBOIS AND THE FOLKS AT THE Arista/Nashville record company began trickling into Robert's Western World, a combination honky tonk and seedy boot store with ridiculous, turquoise-colored booths and ancient bar stools in sunflower patterns. DuBois, a former songwriter ("She Got the Gold Mine -- I Got the Shaft"), senior financial analyst at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas and accounting professor, sat at the first table sipping a Miller Lite and staring at the ratty blue stage where five young musicians in Salvation Army Western wear were ripping through a manic set of primordial rockabilly and country music from the 40's, 50's and 60's. The music was so antediluvian that today's slick country radio would find most of it as alien as a Kurdish folk song.
For a while, DuBois watched with a half smile, sometimes stroking his chin as if pondering a really enticing riddle. But as the show went on, you could see that he was just enjoying himself, smiling at the dumb patter and serio-comic tip-grubbing and then grinning widely during an apocalyptic version of "Red Hot," with its immortal lyric, "My gal is red hot, your gal ain't doodly squat." When it was over, DuBois walked up to one of the singers, Chuck Mead, and handed him two $20 bills. It wasn't clear if that meant, "I really love what you guys do, but I don't think I can make this work," or "I really love what you guys do. Let's talk." 
 It turned out to be the latter, and the result last month was the first studio recording by a band called BR5-49. (It's the phone number used by a hapless car dealer in a gag on the old TV show "Hee Haw.") The album, a collection of hopelessly retro, twangy howls from Nashville's past, is totally unsuited to today's country music radio -- which has quietly become the nation's largest radio format, with 2,600 radio stations, 1,400 more than the next format.
DuBois, who as president of Arista/Nashville built country music's biggest success story over the past six years, understands as much as anyone the demographic and musical currents that have made country the biggest growth area in American entertainment. Total record sales have more than quadrupled in seven years to $2.1 billion. In 1990, 39 country albums "went gold" (500,000 copies) or platinum (a million copies). In 1995, it was 135. Country's top artist, Garth Brooks, has sold 60 million albums in only seven years, making him second only to the Beatles in certified United States album sales.
But what DuBois and almost everyone in Nashville is trying to figure out is how to keep that momentum. For all its recent growth, country music is stalling. The 135 gold or platinum albums in 1995 were down a notch from the 143 in 1994, sales were down 11 percent for the first half of 1996 compared with the same period last year and almost everyone agrees that country radio is glutted with sound-alike, look-alike, toothy young Garth clones. These days, no one can tell Rick Trevino from Tracy Byrd, from Jeff Carson, from Clay Walker, from Kenny Chesney, from John Michael Montgomery, from Doug Stone, from Ty England.
"The record companies are feeding radio nothing but safe, lame, ear candy," says Evelyn Shriver, an acerbic publicist, voicing the minority viewpoint that a major shakeout is coming, like what happened at the end of the urban cowboy craze of the early 1980's. "It sounds fine to 14-year-olds, but for anyone else, how much of this can you take? The crash is coming, and I'd rather have it come sooner than later, because when you have chaos you always produce something new."
The majority view is that country has grown so far so fast that a pause and some casualties are probably inevitable, but that what's happening now is more a breathing spell than a prelude to a major tailspin.
"We probably peaked in 1994, and we flattened out in 1995 and we'll probably be flat again this year," says Ed Benson, executive director of the Country Music Association, the industry's trade group. "But last year we had 61 different artists certified gold or platinum. We've had the kind of growth that any industry would kill for. What's different now is that country music is part of the entertainment fabric of America in a way it's never been before. We've had a lot of growth, and we'll proably see a shakeout of some of the players before long. But we're at a level that's so much higher than ever before, no one's panicking. The bottom isn't going to fall out."
Not, anyway, if people like Tim DuBois can help it.
COUNTRY MUSIC HAS PROSPERED LIKE never before during the 90's for lots of reasons. Most white baby boomers, other than urban sophisticates on the two coasts, are turned off by rap, dance, hip-hop, punk and the other subsets of modern urban music. The generation that grew up on the Eagles and James Taylor is finding that the blend of folk, country and California-style rock that Nashville churns out sounds more like the rock they remember than Smashing Pumpkins or Dr. Dre ever will. And country found a way to get young and sexy in a culture that demands both.
Most of all, country has prospered because the nation is moving South and West and from cities to suburbs (or cities like Nashville that feel like suburbs). And in a nation increasingly shaped by the conservative politics and values of the South, most people would take the world of roots, retro values and simple pleasures represented by Vince Gill or Trisha Yearwood over the world of dislocation, urban grit and cultural dissonance represented by the Fugees or Tupac Shakur.
No one caught the boom that transformed Nashville better than Tim DuBois, the son of two Oklahoma schoolteachers, who had never worked for a record company until he was tapped by Clive Davis, head of Arista records, to start Arista/ Nashville in 1989. Since then, the company has sold 55 million records, and DuBois has vied with Tony Brown, president of country's leading label, MCA/Nashville, for the unofficial title of the Nashville executive with the golden touch.
DuBois, at 48, has graying hair combed straight back and a salt-and-pepper goatee that's mostly salt. He speaks in an Oklahoma twang and projects a genial, plain-folks quality that's almost Clinton-esque in its disarming qualities. He's the kind of guy who, when he hits one of his customarily lame chip shots in the general direction of the green at a charity golf tournament, can get away with a line like: "It's on the dance floor, but I'm not sure you can hear the band."
When DuBois was hired at Arista, the first act he signed was Alan Jackson, a tall, laconic Georgian who writes both traditional odes to home and family and deceptively witty songs like "Gone Country," which lampoons the Las Vegas lounge lizards, L.A. pop artistes and liberal folkies who descended on Nashville in the early 90's. Jackson has gone on to sell 21 million records, becoming second only to Garth Brooks as a 90's Nashville icon.
Not long afterward, DuBois took two struggling solo artists named Kix Brooks and Ronnie Dunn to lunch and said: "You guys don't know one another, but I think you're an act. Why don't you hang out and see if you like one another." They cooked up the definitive country-rock, line-dance sound and in four years sold 14 million albums, making Brooks and Dunn one of the best-selling duos in music history, in a league with Simon and Garfunkel and Hall and Oates.
"Part of country's success is generational," says DuBois, who is wearing a gray knit shirt with no tie, olive slacks and brown loafers at his office in Nashville. "I'm 48, and I think most baby boomers are alienated from urban dance, rap. It didn't translate with their value system, and it didn't translate with their musical taste. When they began to search around they found that some of the music that was coming out of Nashville was more like the rock-and-roll they were comfortable with than anything else out there. How much oldies rock can you listen to without getting tired of hearing 'Brown Sugar' 18,000 times?
"I grew up playing in rock-and-roll bands and writing rock-and-roll music," DuBois continues. "Very few of us grew up listening to the Grand Ole Opry. But when people started listening to country, they found something that wasn't all about truck drivers and cheating; it was about life, a lot of baby boomer issues, and there were still stories there, and there were still great harmonies, and it was just a comfortable place to be."
The trouble is, country may have become too comfortable and bland -- too much Eagles, not enough Merle Haggard. It's widely believed that Nashville needs to find a new direction, and exactly what that sound will be -- and how to get it played and exposed -- is what everyone in town is talking about. Many think Nashville will do what it has always done in slack times -- get rawer and closer to its roots; certainly closer than the current H.N.C. -- that's Hot New Country -- fare. As an example, they point to 14-year-old LeAnn Rimes and her enormous success this year with "Blue," a song with a hard-core, 1950's country sound.
 A LOT OF PEOPLE STILL FIND IT HARD TO take country seriously. After all, other than polka, and perhaps disco, no American music has been subjected to more ridicule than the music of the white South -- the music of Uncle Dave Macon and Grandpa Jones, of "Hee Haw" and Webb Pierce's customized Pontiac Bonneville with silver rifles mounted on the fenders, a silver pistol on the hood and horseshoes on the gas and brake pedals; the corn-pone music of Minnie Pearl's hat, Roy Acuff's twang and Dolly Parton's chest.
But, just as nearly all American music is essentially Southern music, country has always produced both stylized schlock and distinctly American marvels of wit and compression. Even on today's bland country radio, a song like Tracy Lawrence's "Time Marches On," written by the longtime Nashville songwriter Bobby Braddock, takes America from Hank Williams to Bob Dylan to Hank Williams, from beer to pot to boomers turned self-styled sexy grandmas, like a brilliant bit of American haiku. What has changed is that Nashville has become the center of American songwriting, the new Tin Pan Alley, and that, like the nation, the music's heart has moved from the country to the suburbs.
If you watched the Country Music Association Awards on Oct. 2, with their parade of young, attractive, all-white performers combining suburban sensibilities and rural styles, you would know what a reassuring environment it is for selling McDonald's, Wranglers and Chevrolet -- as safe and clean as the neighborhood mall. A lot of the performers are "country" more as a marketing category than as a musical identity, so that "country" acts include made-for-video hot bodies like Shania Twain from Windsor, Ontario, or feminist singer-songwriters like Mary-Chapin Carpenter from Princeton, N.J., via Brown University, or roots rockers like the Tractors.
The people running this music are headquartered in a thoroughly nondescript stretch of about 10 blocks near downtown called Music Row. Here the record companies and publishing firms are housed in blocky low-rise brick buildings that look like parking garages, with terrazzo floors, TV's forever set on Country Music Television and life-size cutouts of the label's hottest star next to the receptionist's desk.
In much the way Nashville borders on self-caricature, with huge billboards for country music stars looming over its freeways, Music Row has the appealing feel of a small town where the only industry is music. The same people turn up at the endless parties for new artists, new labels, platinum records and the rest. The streets have names like Roy Acuff Place and Chet Atkins Place. Successes are marked with banners hung from windows reading "Congratulations Larry Boone and Billy Lawson," or " 'Learning as You Go,' Recorded by Rick Trevino," in just the way the old Acme Farm Supply store across the street from the new Hard Rock Cafe downtown for a while had a banner outside reading "Free Dog Dip Every Saturday."
And if the ethic at the top of Los Angeles or New York is the edgy overdrive of Doberman-style gatekeepers and power lunches at Spago or the Four Seasons, the ethic of the movers and shakers in Nashville, is, well, country. No one wears a tie. Stars and label executives take Nashville's version of a power breakfast (at 9 A.M., not 7) at the Pancake Pantry or hang out over greasy burgers at Brown's Diner or on the cafeteria lines at favorite meat and threes (that's a meat and three vegetables), like Sweat's Barbecue, Arnold's or the Pie Wagon. The one would-be Spago-like industry hangout that has lasted is the Sunset Grill, which has all the glamour of a fallout shelter decorated with Christmas tree lights. When they hit it big, everyone heads for the mix of suburbs and exurbs outside town, where they build big rambling manses, raise horses, eat barbecue at places like Carl's Perfect Pig near Tim's farm outside town and live out the contemporary version of the country-lite American dream.
But if Nashville is still endearingly uncool, that hasn't stopped half the world from trying to get in on the action. In the mid-1980's, there were six major labels in Nashville. Now there are 25 majors or major independents. For instance, Imprint Records started up last year with a public stock offering, becoming the first all-country publicly traded record label. Usually, that sort of thing signals a top in either the stock market or the music market. But these days, who knows?
Both because of the success of the music and the allure of the life there (Nashville had the biggest gain in residential construction of any city in the country during the first half of this year), Nashville increasingly has become home base for an unlikely army of old rockers turned Nashville songwriters or producers trying to get away from the L.A. and New York rat races. They include Steve Winwood; Peter Frampton; Bernie Leadon of the Eagles; John Kay of Steppenwolf; Felix Cavaliere of the Rascals; Al Anderson of N.R.B.Q.; Kim Carnes; Mark Farner of Grand Funk Railroad; Janis Ian; Al Kooper, the great keyboard man on all of Dylan's greatest 60's albums; the legendary Memphis guitarist Steve Cropper; Bob Welch of Fleetwood Mac and Duane Eddy, the twangy guitar pioneer.
The big question in town, though, is what happens next?
 MORE THAN A FEW PEOPLE WORRY that country is winning the battle but losing the war, that it's succeeding by selling its soul. The artists who helped create modern country music -- Merle Haggard, Willie Nelson, Tammy Wynette, Waylon Jennings, George Jones, Johnny Cash, even younger icons like Emmylou Harris -- have long since been shut out by country radio, which prefers younger, sexier models.
"The best quote I ever heard about country music these days is that the reason Long John Silver's outsells Uncle Bud's Catfish Cabin on the edge of town is because they've made fish succeed in not tasting like fish," says Marty Stuart, a flamboyant 38-year-old guitarist and singer who represents much of what's left of Nashville's historical memory. "And I think it's the same thing with country music. There's only a measure of the heart and soul of country music left on the radio and on the concert trail these days, and the real thing, the Bill Monroe, Hank Williams thing, is that far from being long gone. But country always swings between innovation and imitation, and I think we're heading back to some innovation. You've got some great music all over town now, more than there's been for years, and it would be a sin for Nashville not to expose that culture that's trying to manufacture itself."
In fact, country and its outer branches are full of amazing music these days, not just the hot stars who will last like Patty Loveless, Alan Jackson, Vince Gill, Mary-Chapin Carpenter, Trisha Yearwood and George Strait. There is also the bluegrass-jazz banjo of Bela Fleck, the eclectic bluegrass of Alison Krauss, the Appalachian confessional folk of Iris Dement or Gillian Welch and rootsy country-rockers like James House, Kim Richey, the Mavericks and the Tractors.
And on country news groups on the Internet, in smoky clubs and in scrappy little magazines with names like Country Standard Time, the real excitement tends to be not about the big sellers but about smart singer-songwriters like Steve Earle, Al Anderson, Gretchen Peters and Jim Lauderdale or rough-edged acts that take various routes back to the past -- artists like Junior Brown and Wayne Hancock, bands like the Derailers and Wilco.
"It's harder because there's so many artists these days," says Patty Loveless, who this fall won C.M.A.'s Female Vocalist of the Year award. "But you just have to fight to make the music you want to. I always assume if I like something, someone else will, too."
The trouble is everyone has to fit through the same pipeline -- the narrow world of country radio, increasingly dominated by a few big consultants, who winnow out almost everything that's not right down the middle of the road.
"The great lesson of the last decade is that what serves the interest of radio in terms of attracting a maximum market share does not always serve the record business in terms of offering stylistic variety and novelty," says Bill Ivey, executive director of the Country Music Foundation, which runs country's museum and research center. "Radio thrives on familiarity and repetition, and the record business on novelty and innovation. The two are an imperfect fit."
To many people who care about country the real question is not what big thing Nashville cooks up next but, as Marty Stuart says, whether it will find a way to promote and expose some of the new music that's too off center for radio's hit machine.
The cost of playing the game -- $500,000 for a record and video, with a big push on radio -- argues against the likelihood of the off-center acts getting much of an airing, but people are looking for alternatives. One possibility is the so-called Americana format, a hybrid of off-center country and roots rock that could give exposure to the more adventurous acts. But it hasn't caught on.
The most interesting Nashville label these days may be a bare-bones independent called Dead Reckoning, started by some of the most accomplished, offbeat originals in town -- the performers Kieran Kane, Kevin Welch, Mike Henderson, Harry Stinson and Tammy Rogers. They operate out of what used to be the playroom of Kane's house and rely on word of mouth, direct mail, the Internet, radio play in Europe and joint Reckoner tours to sell their wares. They have bypassed radio and the big labels to produce some of the most innovative blues, country and roots records being produced anywhere.
In contrast to radio's seamless ditties about wise grandpas and grade-school romances that last forever, the Reckoners' songs reflect a more complicated America, like in Kane's "Dirty Little Town," which combines melodic, two-step music with a dour lyric about trying to escape from a dead-end place where you can't drink the water or breathe the air, and where the trees are dying under a sky that is purple and brown.
It's a long way from a sure thing commercially, and Dead Reckoning will never rival the titans of Music Row, but after two years Kane thinks there's a way to make it work.
"Anyone who isn't seeing the decline in sales and radio listenership is like a guy who sits on a beach and watches a hurricane roll in and doesn't move until the damn thing's on top of him," Kane says as he dashes out from his kitchen at 1 Reckoner Center to pick up his son at school. "Most of the music's just not very good. We figure if we're at a place where the music comes first, and we work hard at it, people will find us."
 "VINNIE," SOMEONE CALLS OUT AT THE Hermitage Golf Course, named after President Andrew Jackson's famous home nearby. "Hit 'em good, buddy."
It's the day after the Country Music Awards, the 30th version of Nashville's biggest night of preening, marketing and self-congratulation. "Vinnie" is the show's regular host, Vince Gill, whose boy-next-door looks, aw-shucks manner and arresting tenor have made him the quintessential Nashville figure of the 90's. On this day he's doing what everyone in Nashville does when they're not making music. He's playing golf, this time at the Diamond Rio Celebrity Golf Tournament, organized by Diamond Rio, one of DuBois's acts.
Arista had been saved from a C.M.A. shutout only by Brooks and Dunn, who won both Best Duo and the grand prize, Entertainer of the Year. It was a reminder that you can be Music Row's genius one year and back with the pack the next. But if DuBois was at all disappointed, he didn't show it. Instead he zipped around with his Brooks and Dunn golf bag, exchanging hugs and greetings with Gill and other Nashville insiders.
It's a long way from the coal miners' daughters and hillbilly wildmen of its past, but for better or worse, it's Nashville in the 90's. "I was talking to a fellow the other day who said, 'Wouldn't it be great to do a plain old country album,' " says Joe Diffie, an agreeably disheveled honky tonker with long stringy hair and an ample belly rolling around under his golf shirt. "But the problem is you've got to get it played, and you've got to get it sold." He pauses, and then dredging up the old country aphorism, he adds, "You've got to do what you can in the parameters you're given."
As it turns out, there is a group doing plain old country music that night in Nashville. It is DuBois's BR5-49, whose retro country with a punk sensibility -- so out, it's in -- has already developed something of a cult following. The band hasn't got anywhere with radio, but it has been touring Europe and America with the rock band the Black Crowes, getting tabbed by Rolling Stone as Nashville's hottest band and in general hovering in the air like the ghosts of Nashville's past.
Away for months, they are back at Robert's Western World downtown, and the place is packed with old country geezers, hip Nashville types, Vanderbilt college kids, all of whom are crammed in hip to hip or are milling around outside, where the owner Robert Moore is selling BR5-49 CD's, cassettes and T-shirts almost in the shadow of the giant radio tower in front of Nashville's almost-finished downtown sports arena.
It was all pretty surreal, but then the surreal is the routine these days in downtown Nashville. At the beginning of the 90's, downtown Nashville was a seedy wasteland of old clothing stores and dives where British tourists wandered in to find someone wheezing out old Willie Nelson songs.
But over the past few years it has come alive, seemingly in two eras at once. On the one hand, there is the regulation-issue downtown redevelopment of refurbished brick; designer coffee bistros; a Hard Rock Cafe and a Planet Hollywood; the country line-dance palace, the Wildhorse Saloon, and the new sports arena. But on the other, the venerable old dives like Tootsie's Orchid Lounge have come alive with some of the most raucous, real-deal music Nashville has heard in years.
No one knows whether the old dives will be able to withstand the gentrification of downtown. And in the same way, no one is sure what to make of BR5-49. Even their fans aren't sure if this goes anywhere, whether BR5-49 is anything other than a great country garage band, whether its live act translates to records and whether its popularity heralds a swing back toward Nashville's roots or just an interesting nostalgia trip.
But in a nation that is trying to head both into the brave new world of the Internet and back to an imagined America of roots and small-town values, the split personality of the scene and the music has an oddly familiar feel. Nostalgia aside, there's an economic and cultural logic to country gone suburban. But whether country can take a big slice of what the Dead Reckoners and BR5-49 represent may go a long way toward determining what kind of a future it has.
Still, no one at Robert's seems remotely interested in where this is all leading. The crowd jitterbugs and hollers as BR5-49 rips through ragged Hank Williams, Webb Pierce and Johnny Horton chestnuts; goofball oddities like "Humdinger" by the Farmer Boys, the world's least erotic love song, and originals like "Me and Opie Down by the Duck Pond," about an X-rated, lost episode of "The Andy Griffith Show." They play from 11 at night to 2 in the morning without a break, finishing with an inspired rendition of Johnny Horton's "Cherokee Boogie" that has people dancing in the streets outside.
Given the prevailing winds, it has the bittersweet air of something ending more than something beginning. But out on the street, the old electric sign is still spinning in front of the Ernest Tubb Record Shop, the winos are out in force in front of the Turf Club, Heilig Meyers Furniture is aglow under the street lights and, on this night at least, the grimy, ancestral rhythms of the old Nashville are holding their own against the big-bucks hum of the new Music City machine.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Saviors to be? BR5-49 plays retro country with a punk sensibility. (pg. 39); Downtown Nashville is jumping at line-dancing palaces like the Wildhorse Saloon. (pg. 42); Artists on the Dead Reckoning label are replanting country's roots. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ARLENE GOTTFRIED FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 43)
 
Chart: "Nashville's Next Act" Country music changed enormously in the 90's, and Nashville is looking to change again -- but to what? Many people think it's likely to reach back from today's suburban sound toward Nashville's roots. (pg. 40)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ARISTA RECORDS FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (72%); COUNTRY MUSIC ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARISTA RECORDS COUNTRY MUSIC ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (94%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; COUNTRY MUSIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION COUNTRY MUSIC (91%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RADIO FORMATS (74%); SONG WRITING (72%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (72%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (68%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER; DUBOIS, TIM TROYAL GARTH 'GARTH' BROOKS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



620 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 4; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY;
TRAVEL ADVISORY

 BODY:

CRUISE
 
Fashion Statement
Passengers on a cruise and land tour through the Far East March 4 to 24 better leave their white vinyl belts at home. Mr. Blackwell, who annually selects the 10 worst-dressed women, will regale passengers aboard the Marco Polo, an Orient Lines ship, with tales of Hollywood Babylon's wardrobes. After stays in Bangkok and Singapore, guests take an 11-night cruise to Java, Manila and Hong Kong. Prices start at $3,225 a person, double occupancy, plus air fare to and from the United States.Robinsons-May Travel: (800) 800-2325.

GUIDEBOOK
 
Nights Out
 Guidebooks are generally broken down by such classifications as region and price. Now Frommer's has a series focusing on the time of day. Its By Night guides describe nocturnal life in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Manhattan, New Orleans, Miami, Chicago, London and Paris. The pocket-sized paperbacks, $12.95 each, offer suggestions on music and dance clubs, cultural activities, late-night restaurants, bars and more risque pursuits. Guides on Amsterdam and Las Vegas are expected to be in bookstores by December. To order, call Macmillan at (800) 428-5331.
 
AIRLINE
 
Spine Tingler
 Even in first class, airline amenities don't include a masseur for a stiff lower back. But United Airlines has a substitute. Its Connoisseur Class seats (between first class and economy) on Flight 895, between Chicago and Hong Kong, are now equipped with a device called a Backcycler, which automatically moves the lumbar area with the goal of easing lower-back strain and improving circulation. United plans to have Backcyclers installed in all Connoisseur Class seats on its North American and Latin American flights by the end of 1997, and on all Pacific flights by the end of 1998.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); THAILAND (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); LATIN AMERICA (70%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); THAILAND (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); LATIN AMERICA (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING; CRUISES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS AIRLINES (90%); CRUISES (79%); BOOKSTORES (77%); RESTAURANTS (75%); AIR FARES (75%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (74%); DRINKING PLACES (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



621 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Q&A: Dr. Herbert S. Sacks;
A Psychiatrist Talks About Social Policy

BYLINE: By NANCY POLK 

 BODY:
AFTER a career as a child psychiatrist, international consultant and clinical professor of child and adolescent psychiatry at the Yale Child Study Center, Dr. Herbert S. Sacks will become president of the 41,000-member American Psychiatric Association in the spring.
Dr. Sacks, who lives in New Haven and practices in Westport, has, among other things, served 10 years as a senior psychiatric consultant to the Peace Corps, helped direct the Yale-AID epidemiological study in the Senegal River Valley in Africa for 12 years and been a consultant on the movies "Lorenzo's Oil" and "Rain Man." 
 He considers himself a strong patient advocate and is interested in the relationship of developmental psychological theory and clinical experience to social policy. In the early 1970's he led a successful battle to mandate group health coverage for outpatient psychiatric treatment, the first such policy in the nation. "It was a hell of a battle in the legislature because Connecticut is the capital of the American insurance industry," he said.
Recently Dr. Sacks discussed some of his organization's and his own concerns. Following are excerpts from that conversation.
Q. What is the impact of managed care on psychiatry?
A. Managed care will not go away. It is totally undesirable in terms of people getting adequate care. Our focus is patients who are suffering.
We are alarmed at the extent of managed care moving toward capitation. That means that a certain sum of money is allotted per patient. Managed care operations of course, would like to capitate at a very low level with extraordinary profit for insurance companies.
Q. You talk of the industrialization of American medicine. What is that?
A. We have a trillion-dollar industry, one-seventh of the economy. We have an insurance industry with over six million employees. Insurance companies and managed care operations wield an inordinate amount of power over legislatures and Congress. The greed is daunting. Aetna and US Healthcare merged recently, one example of a frenzy of profit-driven Wall Street consolidations. As an example of greed, the C.E.O. of US Healthcare will get in excess of $900 million plus Aetna's airplane, a crew and a pilot. Where does the money come from? It comes from the denial and interruption of medically necessary patient care.
Q. Why do you characterize mental illness coverage as a stepchild of managed care?
A. Managed care has chosen psychiatry as its prime target because it is most vulnerable. It is important that psychiatry be accountable, but we are capable of making clear and unambiguous diagnoses. Psychiatric illness is diagnosable. It is treatable. Treatment is cost-effective and it works. The National Alliance for the Mentally Ill does terrific work in educating the public about how treatable are schizophrenia, major depression, child autism, bi-polar disorder, severe obsessive-compulsive disorders, various pervasive developmental disorders. These may not have a clearly defined cure but people can become self-sufficient.
Q. Some people are not being treated. We see them living in the streets. Can they be helped more effectively?
A. In the 1970's the Feds tried to honey the bait by providing grants to states to deinstitutionalize patients. The notion was that states would help many of these severely mentally ill patients. They would return to their families and communities.
In Central and West Africa I saw families accept mentally ill people back into their communities and offer support and care. In this country, even in Connecticut, the number of resources -- outpatient facilities, monitoring, sheltered workshops, visiting nurse services, outreach -- were all underfunded or not funded at all. We found anywhere from 40 to 60 percent of homeless people on the streets were mentally ill.
Re-education, housing, monitoring are all critical. There is an absence of suitable housing for people who are struggling to get on their feet. They have been stigmatized rather severely. We'd rather not look at them when we walk down the street. Aggressive panhandlers are translated into potential assailants.
Q. Why is confidentiality so important?
A. One grave concern we have has to do with computer cross-linkages, the demands of managed care organizations for full medical records. They claim they need them for accountability. That is not true. They can do the same work by using aggregated data. They don't need individual identifiers. In Greenwich we have the Medical Information Bureau which collects information. Say you apply for disability or life insurance and you have been treated for depression. Computer cross linkages pick this up because it's been paid to a third-party payer. There's a question about whether you will get insurance. There are leaks all over the place. In my private practice dealing with upper middle class patients who work in corporations, banks and the media, perhaps half of them who have coverage will not use it. They pay out of pocket because of their concern about these breaches, because of what they observe in their own workplaces.
Q. Are children getting help they need to cope with violent behavior?
A. The amount of juvenile crime is terrifying. Three out of 10 murder arrests involve victims under 18. Victims of juvenile assaults are often children themselves.
Politicians in response to community fears have introduced legislation to send serious juvenile offenders to adult facilities. But there they will be subjected to physical and sexual assault, coercion. They will learn new modes of criminal behavior which they will predictably pursue once they are out.
Our grave concern is that the rehabilitation model has been trashed and there is a climate of hopelessness about our youth. There is a small cadre of youngsters who are not readily helped by current sophisticated techniques. Special facilities need to be put in to place to address these youngsters. Many have been reared in poverty, in fatherless families, by serial parenting figures. Often, though not always, they have limited intellectual capabilities, possibly as a consequence of inadequate stimulation in their early lives and nutritional deficits.
Q. What about the lives of middle class children?
A. We are living in very difficult times. We are suffering from an excessive amount of instant communication. Children are plugged into television sets instead of reading. The downside of computers is that it doesn't make for reflection. There is a major question as to whether those developments enhance the life of the mind. Worried about television violence? Researchers should look at Saturday morning cartoons. They have dreadful themes. When you have vulnerable children, external stimulation with a fiercely aggressive quality has an incendiary effect.
Q. What about the effect of welfare reform on children?
A. Recently Congress passed a welfare reform bill that is a very serious setback for the cause of children. It is politically palatable but it's inhumane. Children of the poor have no political power. Politicians all know that. It's easier to take away from children's intrinsic needs, which assures them of small futures. It is a national tragedy.
Q. Often care for the poor and institutionalized has been delivered by foreign doctors. Will changes in immigration policies affect that?
A. At this time 44 percent of first-year residents in psychiatry are international graduates. About 75 percent who come here for training do not return to their home countries. They have done terrific work in the public sector like correctional institutions and public hospitals. However, we are running into a major workforce problem: We have an excessive number of physicians. So Congress has agreed to put a restrain on the immigration of physicians. Predictably, after the November election, Medicare reimbursements for the training of international graduates will end. The resolution of these matters will very much affect not only psychiatry but also pediatrics and internal medicine, among other specialties.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Herbert S. Sacks finds managed care "undesirable" and welfare changes "inhumane." (Gale Zucker for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SENEGAL (79%); AFRICA (77%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PSYCHIATRIC ASSN AMERICAN PSYCHIATRIC ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN PSYCHIATRIC ASSOCIATION (84%); PEACE CORPS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PSYCHIATRIC ASSN AMERICAN PSYCHIATRIC ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN PSYCHIATRIC ASSOCIATION (84%); PEACE CORPS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); SENEGAL (79%); AFRICA (77%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; PSYCHIATRY AND PSYCHIATRISTS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH PSYCHIATRY (94%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (88%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DEPRESSION (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (73%); OBSESSIVE COMPULSIVE DISORDER (73%); GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); AUTISM (60%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (60%); 

PERSON: POLK, NANCY; SACKS, HERBERT S (DR) HERBERT S SACKS (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



622 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 33; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: FILM VIEW;
Garden State? The Image Is Closer to Crab Grass

BYLINE: By Charles Strum; Charles Strum is the editor of the Sunday New Jersey section of The New York Times.

 BODY:
IN HIS LYRICAL, SENTIMENTAL essay "Here Is New York," E. B. White revealed with consummate grace and clarity what most New Yorkers, native or adoptive, seem to understand but do not often express:
"New York," he wrote, "is the concentrate of art and commerce and sport and religion and entertainment and finance, bringing to a single compact arena the gladiator, the evangelist, the promoter, the actor, the trader and the merchant." 
 "No one," he said, "should come to New York to live unless he is willing to be lucky."
Just so.
And what he made just as clear was that any place else was just, well, any place else. Or perhaps an un-place. The closest of these is New Jersey.
Are we picking on New Jersey again?
No, we are not. But film makers are. More and more, it seems, despite the fact that -- or perhaps because -- it is not New York or California or Florida. Or Fargo.
Among recent "Jersey films" is "Bogus" set partly in Newark, where Whoopi Goldberg runs a restaurant-supply business. Sharp-eyed members of the audience will recognize the train station and the site of the state's new performing arts center, now nearing completion. In "Caught," a love triangle set above a fish store, Jersey City is the locale, with lower Manhattan (the Emerald City?) shining across the harbor. A few years ago, a new director, Stacy Cochran, came out with "My New Gun," a delightfully wry tale of a suburban New Jersey housewife whose adventures are thrown into high relief by the blandness of her surroundings.
Let's face facts: New Jersey has too long been defined (and insulted) because of the few things it seems to be rather than the many different things it is. New York is easy; New Jersey is hard.
In some ways, that can be hard for film makers too especially if they are trying to sell a concept in 25 words or less. New Jersey is just too many things crammed into a small space between New York and Philadelphia (a valley of humility between two mountains of conceit, someone once said), and the best known of these are not always flattering.
It is a state with more Superfund toxic-waste sites than any other. It is malls, strip zoning, cookie-cutter suburbs, dying cities and overpriced pizza at the shore. Its industrial reputation mocks its own nickname, the Garden State, even though 60 percent of its land is still forest or farm. It also has mountains and horse farms and crystal clear trout streams. But the tank farms will out. That's frustrating, because despite all of New York's problems, it still has Fifth Avenue and the Empire State Building. Even its slums are awe inspiring, if only because they are among the biggest, the oldest or the most dreadful.
People pick on New Jersey with the same ease with which they glamorize New York or Los Angeles. It is part of the public imagination. New Jersey is not New York. Its cities certainly aren't. They are not even Chicago (itself reduced by A. J. Liebling to the status of the "second city"), or, to quote White again on New York, they are not "Spokane multiplied by 60 or Detroit multiplied by 4."
But they are most certainly post-modern, post-industrial, real. In gritty screenplays about lonely people, cheap hoodlums or failed schemes, New Jersey's cities -- and the anonymity of its suburbs -- are less imagination than stark truth. Real people live there, unadorned by nearness to celebrity. The rich and famous may step over the homeless on the doorsteps of their East Side town houses; in Camden or Newark, the poor simply step over the poorer.
In suburb after suburb, people strive to avoid urban tumult, but they cannot ultimately avoid one another. And when they collide, the New York of Woody Allen or Sidney Lumet is not there to comfort them or conceal them. Nor will a Jersey film distract the audience with its aura of big-town romanticism.
Of course, it's more glamorous, on film, to win or lose or get shot or make love in New York or L.A. But be clear on this: if it happens in New Jersey, it really happens. Because real life, the day-to-day routine of striving, and all too often losing, is not glamorous.
Three recent films come to mind: "Welcome to the Dollhouse," "Palookaville" and "Big Night."
The first is a scathing re-creation of the director's life as a nerd in a suburban junior high school. The second is the tale of three losers in a down-and-out part of Jersey City (essentially three palookas in Palookaville). The third is also about haplessness -- the pain and failure of two brothers whose dream is to own a successful restaurant.
You would have to look closely to suspect that "Big Night" takes place in New Jersey. Although the film's co-writer, co-director and co-star, Stanley Tucci, had no intention of singling out New Jersey in his search for a small, East Coast shore town, he did want to give the impression that "Big Night" took place in a hamlet by the sea. (He shot some of his film a bit north and inland, at Keyport, near Raritan Bay.) And it resonates.
As depicted in these films, New Jersey is not a place to go if you are willing to be lucky.
Todd Solondz's "Dollhouse," which opened in May and is due on video in December, was shot in West Caldwell, N.J. It is often described as a dark comedy. In fact, it is a grotesque investigation of intersecting suburban lives, bordering on surrealism. The Essex County suburb inhabited by the unattractive seventh grader Dawn Wiener and her unattractive family is depicted with the same odd invasiveness that Diane Arbus used in her portrait photography. Dawn's house, seen straight on in numerous shots, as if it were a police mug shot, is a building without architecture.
Could this film really be what we know, what we remember of what it means to live in the suburbs?
Its repulsive characters inhabit a place devoid of grace or beauty. You just know that cooking smells (broiled flounder, perhaps?) stick to the garish dining room wallpaper, and the sculptured, opaque water glasses on the table disguise the lukewarm beverages they contain. Dawn's pain at being the butt of her classmates' jokes is made worse by the anonymity she suffers almost everywhere she goes. She is part of a school, part of a family, part of a neighborhood, yet utterly alone.
The same is true for Sid, Russ and Jerry, the three unemployed losers from "Palookaville," a movie shot in Jersey City that opened on Friday.
The director, Alan Taylor, wastes no time in setting the tone, a tone that could only be set in Jersey City. As the opening credits roll, the audience looks out the passenger-side front window of an old car as it passes through a rickety, low-rise neighborhood just west of the waterfront. Across the Hudson, visible as the car glides past each intersection, are the World Trade Center towers. What they represent -- the big time, the big score, making it big -- is as unattainable as permanent employment for these bumblers, who try capitalism and crime and fail at both.
Yet they are sympathetic figures because they are recognizable in their failure and their striving, the more so because we see (though they do not) that they will probably never emerge from obscurity.
"Big Night" falls into this category by accident.
The director, Mr. Tucci, was looking for a shore town in the Northeast in which to set two brothers from Italy in the late 1950's. Here, they hope, they will find success for the restaurant that Primo, the chef who sees himself as an artist, will make famous. There are Italian communities up and down the East Coast, and certainly the Jersey Shore has always had its Italian precincts.
The town where Primo and his brother Secondo set up their Paradise restaurant is in such a place.
The food is unsurpassed; the clientele leaves something to be desired. Their chief rival, Pascal, owns the Grotto restaurant across the street, a restaurant that would fit in perfectly in Dawn Wiener's community. Instead of delicate seafood risotto (a la Primo), Pascal serves flaming platters and heaping plates of meatballs and thick spaghetti, to the accompaniment of a cheap singer who belts out "O Sole Mio" for the unworldy overeaters who squeeze into the vinyl booths.
For the men from the Paradise, the Grotto is hell. They are trapped by the ways of their adopted land and the small-time ways of the prospective clientele. The Paradise, ultimately, is lost.
Is all this loss, all this grit unbecoming? Not really. Each of these films depicts a triumph of spirit over adversity, however momentary. It may not be fully representative of New Jersey, anymore than "On the Waterfront" was.
That film, shot in Hoboken, won eight Academy Awards.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vincent Gallo, left, Adam Trese and William Forsythe in "Palookaville"--Down and out. (Samuel Goldwyn) (pg. 33); Arie Verveen, left, Maria Conchita Alonso and Edward James Olmos in "Caught"-- Set in Jersey City, far from Manhattan's bright lights. (Robert Gilberg/Sony Pictures Classics) (pg. 50)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WELCOME TO THE DOLLHOUSE (MOVIE); PALOOKAVILLE (MOVIE); BIG NIGHT (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE BUILDING CO (50%); NEW YORK (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES FILM (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); MOUNTAINS (84%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); RESTAURANTS (66%); SUPERFUND (65%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (60%); SLUM DWELLINGS (60%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%); 

PERSON: STRUM, CHARLES WHOOPI GOLDBERG (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



623 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 8; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Two for the Color, and Recycled Objects

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH ATTEBERY 

 BODY:
MELISSA BARBIERI, an artist who lives in Greenwich, trained as a classical portraitist in the Italian Renaissance style and derives her greatest satisfaction from painting religious and other heroically inspired figures on giant, stretch canvases.
But these days, walls and wooden furniture generally serve as her canvases. And instead of classical figures, she is more likely to be found painting murals depicting country themes, animal portraits rendered in the Old English style, or whimsical creatures like monkeys swinging on palm fronds, friendly camels with lips turned up in wry grins. For one client, she rendered a life-size giraffe on the wall flanking a grand staircase. 
 Ms. Barbieri, 34, and Matthew Tyrrell, 36, own and operate Painted, a decorative painting business in the Chickahominy section of Greenwich. In addition to being business partners, the two are longtime friends, who met in a high school art class in Fairfield and decided six years ago to pool their talents.
Mr. Tyrrell, at the time, had spent a dozen years working for high-profile decorators in New York City. Ms. Barbieri, a divorced mother of two living in Florida, was working as a waitress and bartender and painting whenever she had time. So they quit their jobs, moved back to Connecticut and invested the bulk of their savings in used furniture.
"It all started with $3,000," Mr. Tyrrell said, "and a rundown Cape Cod in Fairfield."
The dining room of that Cape Cod, which belonged to Ms. Barbieri's mother, served as their first base of operations.
"For three months we sat there with blow dryers, painting," Ms. Barbieri said. "We started out with the country look and then trained ourselves until we were very sure of our technique in a lot of other areas."
When they had completed a representative selection of their work, Ms. Barbieri and Mr. Tyrrell put it out for sale on their front lawn. Several months later, they made their first major sale -- to Tuscany, a Greenwich shop specializing in Italian hand-painted ceramics, furniture and decorative home furnishings. The owner of Tuscany, Barbara Brigham, who now sells the work of Painted regularly, recalled the event and her first meeting with Mr. Tyrrell.
"It was about 5 o'clock on a January day," she said, "when this shadow appeared at the front door and he came swooping into the store with a long black cape and those dark blue eyes. I thought to myself, 'What is this?' "
After talking to Mr. Tyrrell for awhile, Ms. Brigham asked to see his work, expecting him to produce a portfolio. Instead, Mr. Tyrrell rushed outside and carried in a painted chest of drawers that sold within the week for $1,500. Since then, Ms. Brigham said, "It's just kind of always worked. It's one of those so-called good marriages."
At a time when many Connecticut businesses are struggling, and when even Greenwich, a town often considered recession-proof, has seen several stores close their doors, Ms. Barbieri and Mr. Tyrrell are doing fine, they say. Annual sales last year totaled about $300,000, according to Mr. Tyrrell, who stressed that all their pieces are recycled.
"Our prices would triple," he said, "if we had to buy new things."
Ms. Barbieri attributes the success of Painted to the combination of talents she and Mr. Tyrrell bring to the operation. Unlike artists who specialize in one area of painting or design, the Painted partners cover a wide range of skills, from formal wall glazing, murals, stenciling and faux finish work, to timeless painted furniture for children and adults, and funky transformations of recycled lamps and accessories. Painted also incorporates a decorating service known as Dogwood Cottage, for clients wishing to buy rugs, fabrics and decorative accessories.
"Because we come from different ends of the spectrum," Ms. Barbieri said, "there's nothing we can't do. Matthew has the eye of a decorator and I was trained in fine arts, so we complement each other."
"Not only is their range so diverse," said Ms. Brigham, "but they can do anything in any color and in any look you want. They can do something very early American, or very French or Italian."
Ms. Brigham said that hand-painted furniture is especially popular among her European customers. "Europeans," she said, " have lots of painted pieces, while Americans tend to have a lot of mahogany and cherry. Americans are just being introduced to this type of furniture."
While Ms. Barbieri and Mr. Tyrrell characterize all their work as fun, their favorite projects are those in which they have free rein to design a space and develop their own motifs and color schemes.
One such project started out as a colorless laundry room and ended up a bright barnyard scene. On one wall, beneath a sky dotted with puffy white clouds, stands a clothesline covered with laundry fluttering in the breeze. Appliances and cabinets painted to look like weathered barnwood, complete with trompe l'oeil rusty nails, grace an adjoining wall. Poking its head around the corner to survey the scene is a giant spotted cow.
Another unusual project the pair worked on was the design and interior glazing of 64 Greenwich Avenue, a restaurant owned by Richard Mele and built to incorporate the main architectural elements from a dismantled, 27-room Scarsdale mansion. Glaze is "a semitransparent liquid with color added," Mr. Tyrrell explained, as opposed to paint, which is opaque. "People have been glazing for hundreds of years," he said, "but now it's mainstream."
In the case of "64," as the restaurant is popularly known, the pair glazed one room saffron yellow, another a burnt butternut squash yellow and the upstairs dining room hot tango red. They also painted several pieces of furniture, turning a beat-up trunk into a backgammon board lookalike and zapping Mr. Mele's Victorian chairs with black stripes on an ochre background, topping them off with leopard seats.
"We thought at first it might be too much," Ms. Barbieri said, "but Rich loved it.
Mr. Mele said that he had confidence in the pair's taste, but that others viewing the work-in-progress were occasionally skeptical. In order to achieve the color they wanted in the upstairs dining room, for example, Ms. Barbieri and Mr. Tyrrell had to first apply two rather bold shades of pink to the walls. "Some people thought it looked like a bordello," said Mr. Mele, "but I knew where it was going.
"I had wanted the restaurant to look a little country, but with shots of SoHo," Mr. Mele said. "What Matthew and Melissa did was to act as our colorists, and from there, they just kept recommending other things we should do. If there's one thing that is their strong point, besides being creative, it's that they're phenomenal colorists."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Matthew Tyrrell's work as a decorator and Melissa Barbieri's fine-arts training combine in a painting business in Greenwich. (Photographs by Helen Neafsey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: PAINTED (CO) GREENWICH SHOP (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAINTED (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: PAINTS AND PAINTING; INTERIOR DESIGN VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); 

PERSON: ATTEBERY, ELIZABETH; BARBIERI, MELISSA; TYRELL, MATTHEW MELISSA BARBIERI (96%); MATTHEW TYRRELL (95%); BARBARA BRIGHAM (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



624 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 45; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: ART VIEW;
A Rembrandt Evolution, Etching Light Out of the Dark

BYLINE: By Roberta Smith 

 BODY:
FOR THE STRONGEST SENSE OF Rembrandt as a living, thinking artist, nothing quite beats his etchings. And when it comes to seeing Rembrandt etchings in the United States, nothing at all beats the Pierpont Morgan Library, which has the largest collection in North America. For the first time in nearly 25 years, the Morgan has put a good chunk of its holdings on view through Jan. 5 in "A Fine Line: Rembrandt as Etcher."
This is a wonderful show: illuminating, pleasurable, often quite moving. It shows an artist of genius coming to grips with a relatively new medium -- etching being less than a century old when Rembrandt took it up -- and expanding its possibilities as his expressive needs grew. 
 Rembrandt made his first etchings around 1626, when he was barely 20. His brilliant draftsman skills suited the medium superbly, and until the late 1650's he devoted as much time to printmaking as to drawing and painting -- the first great painter to do so. He went on to revolutionize etching, introducing an unprecedented play of light against dark or, in some astoundingly velvety cases, dark against dark. He also gained a new subtlety of surface and psychological portrayal by working directly on the copper plate with dry point (a fine needle) and burin (a pointed cutting tool), refining the etched image, which is made by drawing into a resinous ground that coats the copper plate so that the exposed areas can be etched by acid. Some of his later prints were made with dry point and burin alone.
This exhibition's 83 prints touch on all Rembrandt's major themes and subjects -- the penetrating portraits and self-portraits, the alternately homey and magisterial scenes from the Bible, the unidealized renderings of nudes (female and male) and the increasingly unfettered treatments of the Dutch landscape, as well as genre scenes and his single etched still life, a magnificently isolated little seashell. The result is a succinct encapsulation of Rembrandt's development, in which the initial pull of the Baroque was transformed by sometimes conflicting elements: the classicizing influence of Renaissance art, close scrutiny of the actual world and, above all, an increasing emphasis on the materials and processes of art making.
Rembrandt was arguably the first artist to make this process a central part of his art's content; this is one reason his work always feels so familiarly modern. His paintings never let us forget, sometimes to the point of murkiness, that they are paint applied to canvas. They exude a sense of touch and emotional striving.
His etchings reveal this process just as much and often with greater clarity. First of all, they can have a crystalline, almost transparent quality. We don't just look at Rembrandt etchings; we often have the sensation of looking through them, of seeing how they have been built, mark by mark, from the inside out. In addition, since the etching plate can be printed and then reworked, prints can exist in different "states" that trace an artist's decisions and revisions, providing a series of interim reports.
Rembrandt produced some remarkable images in just one try. Etchings at the Morgan labeled "only state," include extremes like the nocturnal "Presentation in the Temple in the Dark Manner" and the evanescent "Christ Appearing Before the Apostles," in which the Saviour's radiance seems almost to fracture the image. But he also reworked plates extensively or returned to them when his concept of an image had changed.
Cara Dufour Denison, curator of drawings and prints at the Morgan and the exhibition's organizer, has emphasized this tendency by representing nearly 20 prints with two to four different states each. Other prints are represented by two impressions of the same state, revealing how subtle changes in the inking of the plate or a different kind of paper can alter the visual outcome and reflecting Rembrandt's interest in experimentation.
THE SHOW INCLUDES, FOR example, two impressions of the only state of Rembrandt's famous print "Christ Preaching: La Petite Tombe" on contrasting papers. On the soft, creamy Japanese sheet the image is gently blurred; shadows seem to flow around the figure of Christ like dark smoke. This could almost be an ink drawing. On lighter, less absorbent European paper, the same image has an altogether different sense of tone and form: the lines are crisp, the image shot through with sparkling light, and Christ has lost some of his supernatural aura.
Also here are two contrasting states (Nos. 1 and 7 of 8) of the monumental 1655 print "Christ Presented to the People," which was rendered entirely with dry point. Between them, they show that Rembrandt rethought both the image's internal scale and its emotional mood. Gone from the second image are a row of figures standing before the sunlit platform on which Christ appears, and the platform itself has been punctured by two black grottolike openings that suggest a dark, pantheistic underworld. Gone also is nearly an inch from the the top of the image, a change that thrusts the whole architectural setting forward, increasing its massiveness.
The Morgan show is full of similarly telling progressions of images, some grand, others personal, still others measured in the contrasting versions of various prints. All point to increasing maturity, a clearer grasp of the human condition and an ever more declarative use of the print medium.
It begins with small self-portraits made in the first flush of technical mastery. They show the artist grimacing and frowning, as if mugging for the camera. Their young-man-in-a-hurry exuberance is balanced by ineffably tender images of the artist's ancient mother, from the same period.
These are succeeded by two larger, more assured self-portraits that depict the artist as successful young Turk. Especially in the dandyish "Rembrandt With Turned-Up Hat and Embroidered Mantle" of 1631, the artist unleashes a virtuosic display of textures, carefully differentiating the fur, lace and brocade of his lavish garments from the luminous fluff of his hair.
Nearby, "Self-Portrait Drawing at a Window," from 1648, seen in two states, strikes an entirely different note. Rembrandt is older and wiser, having lost his beloved young wife, Saskia, and acquired mounting debts. This is a somber, straightforward image straightforwardly made. A rigorous grid of crosshatching defines the shadowy precincts of a dark interior flanked by a bright window. Next to it, merging with the shadows yet illuminated by the light, sits the artist, who is wearing work clothes and looking up from his task with resolute determination. The image provides a glimpse of the will and concentration that generated everything else on the Morgan's walls.
A similar progression operates among the portraits. The eye is initially caught by the four handsome states of "Clement de Jonghe, Printseller," an image from 1651 that Rembrandt fine tunes without bringing the sitter any closer to us. In contrast, a rich psychological availability characterizes several beautifully wrought portraits from the late 1650's: the surgeon Arnold Tholinx, who fixes us with an interested, appraising air; Old Haaringh, a city official, whose wrinkled face communicates a beleaguered fragility, and "Jan Lutma, Goldsmith," a grandfatherly figure whose downturned gaze is quietly imperious.
The give-and-take between process and image is played out again and again at different scales and intensities. In the homey little "Abraham Talking to Isaac," the figures are fully defined while the landscape is an open sketch, wonderfully transparent. In "The Three Trees," Rembrandt's most ambitious landscape print, there's more tension. The towering, rather tightly rendered trees are strikingly at odds with the loose linear evocations of cloud and wind that give the sky a life and a scale of its own. In other landscapes, Rembrandt used a similar economy of means to intimate entire vistas, as in "Jan Six's Bridge" and "The Goldweigher's Field."
Sometimes process and image seem almost in conflict. The exhibition's indisputable highlight is "The Three Crosses," the monumental image of Golgotha that Rembrandt produced in 1655 and returned to again as late as 1661. The Morgan owns the first, second and fourth of four states, which trace a sense of deepening human tragedy and an increasingly passionate manipulation of the plate. In the first and second versions, a strong shaft of light brightens the image, shining especially on the good thief and the huddled masses of Mary and the other faithful to the right of the Cross.
In the fourth, Rembrandt's entire conception has changed. The composition has been clarified and strengthened. The attending crowd has been thinned, so that the crucified figures are now echoed by three prominent witnesses: a man on horseback depicted in profile wearing a bulbous, unctuously official hat (taken from a medallion by Pisanello, it also evokes "Alice in Wonderland"); a soldier with a raised sword and the grieving St. John, whose arms are now extended up and out, as if crucified himself.
But opposing this new clarity of composition are long, repeating diagonals that Rembrandt also added. These rain down from above, like some graphic form of heavenly wrath, adding to grief a sense of impending doom. These lines are especially heavy on the right, where the good thief is now all but obliterated. They form a dark curtain that is about to be drawn across the scene, an image harrowed and nearly consumed by the process that brought it into being.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Refinements Two examples of Rembrandt's "Christ Presented to the People," 1655, above, on view at the Morgan Library, show how the artist altered architectural elements, developed and reworked the scale and even the mood of the etching.; A Favorite Subject Rembrandt's "Self-Portrait Drawing at a Window," 1648, left, shows the artist after the death of his wife, in work clothes and as a no-longer-exuberant young man-- A somber, straightforward image straightforwardly made. (Photographs by David A. Loggie/Pierpont Morgan Library)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); 

COMPANY: FINE LINE FEATURES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS PAINTING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); LIBRARIES (77%); 

PERSON: SMITH, ROBERTA; REMBRANDT HARMENSZOON VAN RIJN (1606-69)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



625 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 27; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: What's a Conservative?

BYLINE: By Alan Ehrenhalt; Alan Ehrenhalt is the executive editor of Governing magazine and the author, most recently, of "The Lost City: The Forgotten Virtues of Community in America."

 BODY:

THE WORLD TURNED RIGHT SIDE UP
A History of the Conservative Ascendancy in America.
By Godfrey Hodgson.
365 pp. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin Company. $27.50.
Over the course of the past generation, slowly and not always consciously, the American electorate changed its mind about what government was and what it might reasonably be expected to accomplish. Tens of millions of voters who once looked to Washington as the engine of positive social change came to see the entire Federal establishment, instead, as an alien presence in their midst. 
 So thorough has this psychological change been that many of us simply accept it as a familiar fact of modern life. But Godfrey Hodgson, an English journalist who has been studying American politics for three decades, quite rightly refuses to take it for granted. He wants to know just how the energy and enthusiasm of Washington in the Kennedy years managed to transform itself into the visceral hostility to government that created Newt Gingrich and the 104th Congress.
In "The World Turned Right Side Up," Mr. Hodgson asks a simple but beguiling question. Has there been a conservative revolution? Or is it just a product of the larger cynicism that seems to pervade American life at the end of the century? And he raises the underlying intellectual problem that any serious conservative has to confront sooner or later: What is one to think of a movement that stretches to include under its banner libertarians who detest authority and Christian moralists who long to reassert it?
It is this fundamental contradiction that prompted Mr. Hodgson to write his book in the first place. "What puzzled me," he says, "was the incoherent cocktail of ideas that were being melded together and offered under the marketing label 'conservative.' "
He is focusing on the nasty little problem that American conservatives never quite manage to put behind them, no matter how hard they try. For much of American postwar history, as Mr. Hodgson points out, the libertarians and the moralists were able to forget their differences because they were lucky enough to have an ideal enemy: Communism. The one thing virtually all American conservatives understood from 1945 to 1989 was that the Soviet Union was a threat to everything they wanted to achieve. Exactly what they wanted to achieve was something they could argue about later.
Later is now. "As the 1990's flowed back into the past and the millennium approached," Mr. Hodgson writes, "the contradictions between some of the impulses of conservatism began to look more ominous. It was one thing to want to restore the old ways, another to reconcile that nostalgia with the imperatives of economic freedom."
Mr. Hodgson's insistence on this point makes his book a helpful guide to some of the most confusing events in American politics in the past couple of years. It helps explain Pat Buchanan, whose sensitivity to corporate mistreatment of American workers seemed to point him toward a broader attack on global capitalism, but who mysteriously shrank from making it. It helps explain Newt Gingrich, who came to power trumpeting the virtues of the uncontrolled market and the traditional American family, seemingly unaware that one was the enemy of the other.
Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Gingrich, like many of their Republican contemporaries, have been trying to straddle the contradictions of conservatism, and finding it an embarrassingly difficult maneuver to perform. Mr. Hodgson faces those contradictions squarely, and in so doing delivers a book that anyone professing interest in conservative ideas ought to take seriously.
Granting their inconsistencies, the fact remains that people who call themselves conservatives have done something truly remarkable over the past 40 years. They have taken a label that once carried a popular connotation of hidebound rigidity and given it an aura of dynamism. "I am a conservative because I'm for change," Mr. Hodgson quotes the former Iowa Senator Roger W. Jepsen as saying. A generation ago, that would have sounded ludicrous. A generation from now, it may sound equally ludicrous, as perhaps it should. But in the last quarter of this century, with liberalism and the Democratic Party under siege as icons of discredited policy, it has been possible for candidates of the right to identify themselves as apostles of change and to be accepted as such.
A substantial portion of Mr. Hodgson's book is a narrative account of the events that rejuvenated the American right, from the founding of National Review by William F. Buckley Jr. in 1955 to the emergence of Irving Kristol and the neoconservatives in New York in the 1970's. The book painstakingly traces the ripening of Christian fundamentalism, the academic critique of Keynesian liberal economics and the emergence of a hard-line anti-Soviet cadre among foreign policy academics. Much of this history is familiar, and Mr. Hodgson breaks no new ground in reporting it at substantial length. Still, he performs a service in linking together the forces that transformed the "narrow stream" that was the conservatism of the 1950's into the "raging river" of 1994.
Is "revolution" too strong a word? In Mr. Hodgson's view, yes. As he sees it, a genuine conservative revolution would require not merely that the American people come to distrust government, but that they actively support efforts to dismantle it. On this point, he says, the record of the past year has been decisive. When Mr. Gingrich and the Congressional Republicans sought to begin the dismantling process, and shut the Government down to demonstrate their seriousness, public opinion gave them a spanking from which they have yet to recover. "However much they may applaud conservative politicians who say they want to 'get government off your back,' " Mr. Hodgson concludes, "they can hardly be said to have wholeheartedly adopted the conservative creed." Nor are they likely to, as long as that "creed" consists of a jumble of inconsistent ideas that point the society in wildly different directions.
"The World Turned Right Side Up" belongs on this fall's reading list for Congressional Republicans. Had they been able to read it last year, they might have spared themselves a considerable amount of embarrassment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WORLD TURNED RIGHT SIDE UP, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: HOUGHTON MIFFLIN HARCOURT PUBLISHING CO (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); WRITERS (74%); LITERATURE (64%); 

PERSON: EHRENHALT, ALAN; HODGSON, GODFREY NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



626 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1852 words

HEADLINE: Police Salaries Likely to Move Higher

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
AN arbitrator's decision on a four-year contract for the Suffolk County police ushers in an era of $70,000-a-year officers, upsetting county officials and inspiring predictions that the added expense will lead to tax increases.
"The people of Suffolk County can't afford this," the senior county legislator, Joseph Rizzo, Republican of Islip Terrace, said. "They are going to bankrupt us if they continue at this pace." 
 If the history of police contracts on Long Island is a guide, wages for county, town and village officers in Suffolk and Nassau Counties will continue to rise steadily, far outracing inflation and reflecting gains under the state's Taylor Law, which requires that binding arbitration settle contract disputes.
The county says that from 1982 to last year the percentage increases for Suffolk officers, among the highest paid in the country, exceeded rises in the Consumer Price Index every year except 1992. When the increases were adjusted for the index, the officers gained $75,612.
By contrast, increases for many private and public workers have not kept pace with inflation in recent years, economists say.
The police, barred from striking and subject to sanctions for job actions, say that only through arbitration can they gain the increases and benefits that they deserve for working in a dangerous and stressful occupation.
Critics like Mr. Rizzo say binding arbitration removes control over salaries from elected officials and mandates that the sums be based on factors like levels in comparable nearby departments. "We can't control taxes if the arbitrators keep giving these awards," said Mr. Rizzo, who predicted that the contract would create a budget deficit.
County Executive Robert J. Gaffney said through a spokesman that his proposed 1997 budget, which is before the Legislature, included money to pay for the first-year increase. "These mythical multimillion-dollar holes in the budget quite frankly just don't exist," said the spokesman, Rick Belyea.
But Mr. Rizzo differed, faulting arbitration for allowing the police to win increases regardless of the ability to pay, adding: "They can just say: 'We don't need you. We'll get it from the arbitrator.' "
The minority leader in the Legislature, Maxine S. Postal of Amityville, said Mr. Gaffney had agreed too easily to let an arbitrator set the police wages for four years.
"Having an award that you are locked into for four years is a terrible burden," Ms. Postal said. "The County Executive's office barely negotiated before going into arbitration. Agreeing to do it for four years shows they just don't want to do their job."
Complaints about rising police wages and arbitrators' awards have been heard for years on Long Island. In 1978, after the police in Nassau County had won an arbitration to increase the base salary for top-step officers to $21,000, County Executive Francis T. Purcell criticized the decision and warned that taxpayers were not a "bottomless well of money."
The base salary for senior Nassau officers is $59,522, or up to $61,022 with longevity pay, and the officers seek increases similar to those in Suffolk.
"These increases underscore the problem with mandatory arbitration," Suffolk Legislator Steve Levy, Democrat of Bayport, said. "All these arbitrators do is compare neighboring counties and police departments to each other. It's a never-ending upward cycle."
The arbitrator was Martin F. Scheinman of Manhasset, a lawyer who has a summer home in Southampton.
Mr. Scheinman's ruling gives 1,800 officers an 18.6 percent increase over four years and raises the senior officers' base, from $59,540 to $70,658 by 1999.
Increases in longevity pay and other benefits will raise the wages even higher. The county's total cost of the raises will be $29 million, according to a county estimate.
The arbitration began in May, after mediation had failed and the two sides had declared an impasse.
The union, the Suffolk County Police Benevolent Association, sought a 6 percent increase in each of the four years.
The county asked for 2 percent annual increases over the four years.
Mr. Scheinman's decision gave officers increases in the base salary of 5.5 percent retroactive from Jan. 1, 1996, and of 4 percent a year for the next three years. The labor contract expired on Dec. 31.
An economist who advises Suffolk governments and business, Thomas Conoscenti, projected that the inflation rate of 2.9 percent would increase to 3.3 next year and 3.6 in 1998.
Mr. Scheinman said that his ruling was in accord with the guidelines of the Taylor Law and that it adhered to a "police pattern," in which salaries for comparable departments were held at the same level. He noted that the contract required concessions on overtime that would save the county $400,000 a year.
In an interview, Mr. Scheinman, who was chosen by the county and the police, said a pivotal factor was a 5.5 percent wage increase this year for higher-ranking officers, who are represented by another union.
Mr. Scheinman, a longtime arbitrator who has ruled in several police contract disputes in Suffolk and Nassau, said the 5.5 percent first-year increase for the rank-and-file officers matched their superiors' increase. Those officers won the increase in binding arbitration in which Mr. Scheinman was the arbitrator.
Mr. Scheinman said the increases were also based on comparisons with Nassau. "I find that the police officers employed by Nassau County are the most relevant basis for comparison," he wrote in the award. "This is not only because Nassau County is the neighboring county, and not only because its police are the only other county police force on Long Island, but also because of the past bargaining history between the parties, which has often used Nassau County police officers as an important basis for comparison."
The Nassau County Police Benevolent Association recently negotiated a five-year contract that would have increased top-step pay for an officer to $72,664 by the year 2000, but the Board of Supervisors did not ratify it.
The Suffolk P.B.A. said the 4.5 percent annual increases in the Nassau contract, which it believed that an arbitrator would eventually award, justified its own proposals.
Former County Executive John V. N. Klein said the two county departments had long used comparisons to each other and political power to obtain wage concessions.
"The perpetual problem going back to Dennison days was the whipsawing between Nassau and Suffolk," said Mr. Klein, referring to his predecessor, H. Lee Dennison, and the years preceding binding arbitration. "If the Suffolk P.B.A. settled at a number that was greater than Nassau, then the Nassau P.B.A. would demand an even greater increase.
"Ultimately they would be successful, whereupon the Suffolk P.B.A. would come after Suffolk government for an increase exceeding the Nassau increase. After arbitration the same thing still happened. The whipsawing has not changed."
Mr. Klein said the police unions were politically influential, "very effective lobbyists at the state level, as well as being intensely involved in the political process at the county level."
In the Suffolk talks P.B.A. negotiators also said the county department, as the largest and leading force in Suffolk, should be paid more than village and town forces.
But for the smaller forces, where the base levels for experienced officers were near and, in some cases, above the county level, the new contract will be a basis for future proposals.
In Suffolk, Mr. Scheinman ruled that the county's proposed 2 percent increase would drop the county department to sixth or seventh place among police forces in Suffolk. "Such a deterioration in the relative ranking of the county's police officers in terms of salary cannot be justified," he wrote.
The decision emphasizes maintaining a pattern in which salaries in comparable jurisdictions remain similar, on the theory that that will discourage leapfrogging in which one department tries to surpass another's gains.
The president of the Suffolk P.B.A., Thomas E. Tohill, and the president of the Nassau P.B.A., Gary D. Dela Raba, did not answer calls for comment.
The chief collective-bargaining negotiator for Nassau County, Peter A. Bee, said the county and the P.B.A. were awaiting a mediator's report on a proposed contract. He declined to say whether he thought that the Suffolk agreement was relevant to Nassau.
"Everything has relevance," Mr. Bee said. "It's a question of degree."
The Labor Relations Director in Suffolk, David S. Greene, said criticisms of Mr. Scheinman were misdirected. "He is a nationally renowned arbitrator," Mr. Greene said. "The process was fair. This is what the law allows."
Criticizing the arbitrator, Mr. Greene added, was "like blaming the umpire for calling you out after three strikes."
"If people would like to get some relief, it requires a change in the state law," he said. "The biggest issue for us is the 'ability to pay' argument. We need to more clearly define the municipality's availability to pay and comparability.":
In his award, Mr. Scheinman said, the county had proven that "it is not flush with money." But he added that a 2 percent increase in each of the four years of the contract under the county proposal would have lowered police morale, to the detriment of residents.
He said the 6 percent annual increase that the union had sought would be harmful, "given the economic climate on Long Island and in the county." His compromise award, he wrote, was affordable for the county and fair to police.
The county argued for comparisons with forces in metropolitan regions that pay lower salaries, forces in places like Buffalo, Elizabeth, New Haven, New York City, Newark and Syracuse.
New York City officers earn a top wage of $43,593, or $48,593 with longevity pay.
"Why don't they compare Suffolk to the city, where it's really risky being a cop?" Mr. Rizzo, a retired city subway foreman, asked. "If I was going to be a cop I would choose Suffolk over the city any time because of the danger, even if the pay was the same."
About 42,000 applicants took the examination for county police officer in June, nearly 20 times the number of officers on the force. The county argued that no wage increase was needed to attract recruits.
The president of the 30,000-member New York City Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, Louis Matarazzo, said city officers deserved the wages that were paid to suburban officers. "I'll take it," he said, when asked about the Suffolk decision.
The city P.B.A. is appealing to the State Court of Appeals, the state's highest court, to overturn lower-court rulings that affirmed the city's Office of Collective Bargaining as the arbitrator of wage disputes. Those rulings voided a a law that the Legislature passed in February over a veto by Gov. George E. Pataki and despite objections by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
The law shifted police contract disputes to the state's Public Employment Relations Board, the agency in charge of arbitration outside the city.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Police Wages" shows wages on Long Island, and compared with other New York police departments, 1994-1996; Graph compares police wages with inflation. (Source: Suffolk County) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUFFOLK COUNTY POLICE BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); COUNTIES (91%); POLICE FORCES (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (78%); STRIKES (78%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); WORKPLACE STRESS (67%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (63%); 

PERSON: RATHER, JOHN JOSEPH RIZZO (72%); MARTIN F SCHEINMAN (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



627 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: Where the Rich Live, and Live Well

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: SCARSDALE

 BODY:
WITH a straw basket under his arm, Helmut Ludl recently strode through the aisles of the Hay Day market here assembling the weekend's menu: aged beefsteaks, the largest and freshest shrimp money can buy, imported French cheeses, exotic fruits and vegetables and some wickedly delicious treats from the bakery counter. When he finally made his way to the checkout counter, the last concern on the chief executive officer's mind was how much it would cost.
"I work hard, I earn good money and I want only the very best," said Mr. Ludl, who was shopping at the market which opened in this upscale village two years ago to cater to the tastes of well-to-do Westchester residents. 
 In a county that ranks among the highest in the nation in terms of average household income, stores like Hay Day and customers like Mr. Ludl are not unusual.
A recent issue of Worth magazine listed 20 Westchester towns, villages and hamlets among the 300 wealthiest in America, which is also why places like Purchase Estates in Harrison -- where new home values start at $2.5 million -- and the Mary Jane Denzer store in White Plains -- where ball gowns sell for more that $5,000 -- are reporting brisk sales.
There is so much money in the county that the designer evening gowns, even at those prices, have been flying off the racks. And the estate-like homes, with swimming pools and proximity to a golf club with membership by invitation only are similarly going fast.
"You see signs of money everywhere," said Noreen L. Preston, an economist with the County Planning Department, "in the expensive cars on the street, in the upscale neighborhoods, in the boutiques in downtown areas and in the variety of businesses that cater to the rich."
"And yet," she pointed out, "this is a county of tremendous diversity -- from the very wealthy to the poorest immigrants who are making their way up the economic ladder."
Ms. Preston's observations are borne out by statistics, which reveal significant poverty in the county. Mount Vernon, which is home to many immigrants, has a median household income of only $43,284, but which is nevertheless higher than the national median. By contrast, residents in Scarsdale, which comes in 30th on Worth's list, report an average household income of $222,000 and an average home value of $512,700. Scarsdale, according to Worth, is the richest municipality in Westchester, and Mount Vernon, according to the County Planning Department, is the poorest.
In the 1990 United States Census, more than one-fourth of the households in the county registered incomes of more than $75,000, and almost 18 percent showed incomes of more than $100,000. Westchester ranks second in per capita personal income in the state, surpassed only by Manhattan, or New York County.
The rich in Westchester, like those in most areas, fall into two categories. There are those whose families have owned their grand estates for generations, and then there are the nouveau riche -- celebrities and up-and-coming business executives among them. And according to economists and other observers, the two groups differ markedly in style.
"Those with old money tend to be more conservative," observed Mary Jane Denzer, the owner of the couture clothing store on Mamaroneck Avenue in White Plains, which features the outfits of such designers as Yves St. Laurent, Ungaro and Givenchy. "Old money wants beautiful clothes that don't make an obvious statement. New money wants to walk into a room and make a grand entrance."
Ms. Denzer pointed out that -- at least in her experience -- the more money the rich have, the nicer they tend to be, "compared to those who who are dying to own what they buy but are angry that it costs so much."
In Harrison, estates, like haute couture clothing, were also selling to both old and not-so-old money. But Frank C. Langworth, a spokesman for Purchase Estates, explained that while anybody's check might buy a designer suit or even three wooded acres and a luxury home with a swimming pool, it would not guarantee entrance into The Country Club of Purchase next door, which will feature, when completed, an 18-hole signature Jack Nicklaus golf course.
"It's not just a matter of dollars," said Mr. Langworth, president of the Langworth Pantel Group, a public relations firm in White Plains. "You can't just call up and say I have a check for $100,000 and I want to join your club. We're talking about an invitation-only membership."
The estates and golf club are set on 400 acres of gently rolling woodlands in the pristine hamlet of Purchase, where 10 of the 11 homes in the first section sold within six months.
"There's a very small sliver of the population that can afford these," Mr. Langworth said. "They're corporate transfers, downgrades from even bigger homes, Manhattanites looking for a get-away in the country. It's a Fortune 500 kind of place."
Meanwhile, in White Plains, in what was once a gracious 7,000-square-foot home, Beethoven's "Moonlight" Sonata was being played on a grand piano in Demirjian Salons while well-heeled customers -- corporate executives and the matrons who run the county's charity balls among them -- sipped Perrier or white wine and had their hair cut and styled.
Vasken Demirjian, the 34-year-old owner of the salon, made no bones about who his customers are. "They are the creme de la creme, the most elite," the former art dealer turned collector said, "and they come here to be pampered."
Across town at The Westchester, a decidedly upscale shopping center in White Plains, Jose Eber -- the Beverly Hills, Calif., hairdresser to the stars -- recently open a salon in a similar bid to groom the wealthy.
Nieman Marcus, which is also at The Westchester, beguiles its wealthy customers with lush incentive programs. For customers who spend $125,000 in a year, the store offers free trips to Barcelona or London. The reward for those spending more than $500,000 in a year is a free tour of Prague.
"Right from the beginning of its history, Nieman Marcus has been an upscale store," said the chain's chairman and chief executive officer, Burt Tanksy, who noted that Nieman Marcus opened its first store in 1907 in Dallas to cater to the rich. The White Plains store opened in 1980.
Tiffany & Company has also been thriving in Westchester. The company opened a store 18 months ago in The Westchester, and its executive vice president, James E. Quinn, reported that it has become a top performer.
"We knew it would," Mr. Quinn said. "The demographics are here for Westchester. These are precision shoppers with high expectations."
Albert J. Pirro Jr., a lawyer to the rich and famous in Westchester, offered yet another perspective on the rich. His client list includes Donald Trump, the real estate developer, and Nelson Peltz, chairman and chief executive of the Triarc Companies, owner of the Royal Crown Cola Company and Arby's.
"These are giants," said Mr. Pirro, who has offices in White Plains. "But it's not true that they necessarily present the opportunity for others to make big dollars. These kinds of clients tend to be extremely prudent in spending their money."
Where do the wealthy play? William Weaver, owner of Westair Flying School in White Plains, said some fly private planes, which sell for $25,000 and up. They also hang out in their yachts, docked at clubs along the shores of the Hudson River and Long Island Sound. And they work out with personal trainers, who they pay $250 a week or more, in well-appointed gyms at their homes, said Bill Beck, general manager of Club Fit, which is located in White Plains, Briarcliff Manor and Jefferson Valley.
"Some preferences never change," Worth magazine said in its article. "Look for the rich by the water, close to horses or near a great golf course."
In its report on the rich, Worth magazine said that Bronxville followed Scarsdale in Westchester with an average household income of $189,300 and an average home value of $524,900. Also listed in the top 300 wealthiest communities, in order of their wealth, were Pound Ridge, Purchase, Chappaqua, Bedford, Briarcliff Manor, Rye, Millwood, Larchmont, Armonk, Cross River, Waccabuc, Pelham Manor, Mamaroneck Village, Harrison, Irvington, Rye Brook, South Salem and Katonah.
First on the magazine's list overall, was Rolling Hills, Calif., where the average household income is $305,700 and the average house costs $587,900.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An almost complete mansion, middle photograph, at Purchase Estates, near golf course at Country Club of Purchase. At Hay Day Market in Scarsdale, shoppers gather for coffee. (Claire Yaffa for The New York Times); At the Demirjian Salons in White Plains, customers are treated every Saturday to music on a grand piano played by Kim Salico. (Susan Farley for The New York Times; Claire Yaffa for The New York Times) (pg. 1); At Demirjian Salons, where pampering clients is the rule.; Service at Hay Day, where a customer, Helmut Ludl, said: "I want only the very best." (Claire Yaffa for The New York Times) (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PURCHASE ESTATES (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: PURCHASE ESTATES (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INCOME WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); COUNTIES (88%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (88%); HOME PRICES (87%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (87%); RETAILERS (75%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (72%); CHEESE (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (72%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (66%); TRENDS (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); EXECUTIVES (56%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA HELMUT LUDL (64%); FRANK C LANGWORTH (62%); RICH LIVE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



628 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 13; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Another View Of a Dog Track

 BODY:
Now that the less-than-one-year-old Shoreline Star Greyhound Park and Entertainment Center is about to go belly up ("A Dog Track's Woes Added to a City's," Oct. 13), those politicians and business leaders who predicted it would mean economic revitalization for a deteriorating city seem to be nowhere to be quoted.
Perhaps it is because the decision to allow a dog track in Bridgeport has resulted in one embarrassing event after another: the Division of Special Revenue exempting the Shoreline proprietor from a background check; the proprietor's subsequent arrest on charges of destroying evidence; an ensuing State Organized Crime Task Force investigation of him; the track's recent declaration of Chapter 11 bankruptcy, and the finale -- the use of Connecticut taxpayers' money to pay for the proprietor's investigation. 
 How could a dog track have been perceived as a good investment to begin with, in light of dog racing's nationwide decline in popularity?
Six greyhound tracks have closed across the country since January 1995, 13 tracks have closed since 1990. Of the two that opened in 1995 (Camptown in Kansas and Shoreline in Connecticut) both have gone into bankruptcy and one has closed.
For the 1996 fiscal year, the revenue to the state from both dog tracks in Connecticut has amounted to less than one one-hundreth of 1 percent of the general fund.
From 1989 through 1994, revenue from greyhound racing in Connecticut has declined 84 percent.
Even when the business of greyhound racing was more lucrative, state revenue that the activity has generated has never been allocated to provide for the welfare of the dogs once their brief careers are over, not even to euthanize them humanely. Two New England states (Vermont and Maine) have reviewed the human and financial issues surrounding greyhound racing and have banned it.
Connecticut should be ashamed of its complicity in the destruction of an estimated 30,000-plus racing greyhounds in the United States each year, as it contributes to that number.
Connecticut racing greyhounds meet a fate that is similar to most racing greyhounds around the country; the animals are routinely sent to low-rent, less competitive tracks where they are abused, then ultimately destroyed by methods that have included bludgeoning, electrocution and shooting.
The people of Bridgeport deserve more; the dogs deserve more.
 
MELANI NARDONE
Stamford
 
he writer is a member of the Greyhound Protection League.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); MAINE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SHORELINE STAR (BRIDGEPORT, CONN) SHORELINE STAR GREYHOUND PARK (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHORELINE STAR (BRIDGEPORT, CONN) SHORELINE STAR GREYHOUND PARK (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT (CONN); UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); MAINE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DOG RACING; GREYHOUNDS BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DOGS (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (70%); EVIDENCE (69%); ORGANIZED CRIME (69%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (69%); 

PERSON: NARDONE, MELANI

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



629 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 11; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
An Italian Questions The Pope

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN 

 BODY:
DARIO FO, the celebrated trouble-making Italian playwright, is having his say at Yale a year late and not in person.
Last season, Mr. Fo's scheduled appearance in his one-man show, "Johan Padan," which was to have been produced in repertory with "Sex? Thank You. My Pleasure!" a one-woman show by the playwright's wife and collaborator, Franca Rame, was canceled when Mr. Fo suffered a cerebral ischemia. 
 Not that Mr. Fo's translated words are being heard at Yale for the first time. The vast oeuvre of the 70-year-old playwright/performer/designer has twice been represented at the Yale Repertory where "About Face" was produced in 1983 and "Almost by Chance: A Woman" in 1987. This time, Mr. Fo's "The Pope and the Witch" is opening the season of the Yale School of Drama.
The production, with a cast of 12, all second- and third-year actors-in-training, playing 24 roles is the brainchild of 31-year-old Stephan Genn, a third-year student of directing.
Landing the rights to stage "The Pope and the Witch" was not enough for Mr. Genn, who quibbled with previous adaptations and wanted to come up with one of his own. "One was a bit Monty Python -- very funny but missing the political punch and power of the piece; another was more faithful to the original, but it didn't embrace the American, or let's say, the non-Italian audience," Mr. Genn said.
The other adaptors gave Mr. Genn permission to incorporate their work into his new version, with Melanie Deas, a third-year student of dramaturgy. In Mr. Fo's antic play, the Pope is holding his first press conference while abandoned children from everywhere are gathered in St. Peter's Square. Believing that the children were brought to the Vatican by pro-choice activists, the Pope suffers a breakdown. Enter a television psychiatrist-showman and a healer, the witch of the title, who runs an illegal drug treatment center.
Unsurprisingly, a 1992 production of the play by the American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco "created a big stink," Mr. Genn said. The play is not anti-Catholic, he added. "Fo, who is a member of the Communist Party, which is respected in Italy, is writing from an extreme left wing perspective," Mr. Genn said. "He is asking whether practices of enormous institutions, like the Vatican, are really following spiritual teachings. And he is using the Catholic Church as a symbol to deal with issues surrounding scandals and political intrigue, like the assassination theory about John Paul I. It's a real mystery. There's a kind of Oliver Stone movie in there."
While the sensibility of Dario Fo and the ways of Broadway hardly seem compatible, the iconoclastic playwright is no stranger to the commercial theater. Note a production of "Accidental Death of an Anarchist" in 1980, although it ran a mere five weeks, including two weeks of previews, with a cast that included Jonathan Pryce, Bill Irwin, Patti LuPone and Joe Grifasi.
Mr. Genn explained the play's structure -- which has moments of "vaudeville vamping," commedia dell'arte and involves, in the words of a publicity release, "rather unlikely monks and nuns." "It is written as a farce," he said. "In comedy, we try to make everything absurd. But in farce, we make the outrageous normal. And Fo is playing with the notion of tragedy without catharsis, as a direct call to action."
"It forces the audience to rethink everything. This is not standard left wing critique of the church. It has to do with facing a new socio-economic reality. That creates a crisis for the Pope. Whether we're Catholic or not -- and I'm not -- the play asks us to just take stock. If we do that, it will be an enormous success."
Dario Fo's "Pope and the Witch" can be seen at the University Theater (220 York Street, New Haven; 203-432-1234) Tuesday through next Saturday.
The Yale School of Drama's season also includes the following productions: "Troy Women," an adaptation of Euripedes' work by Karen Hartman, directed by Laura Stribling (Jan. 14-18); Peter Handke's "Ride Across Lake Constance" directed by Andrew Utter (March 11-15), and the Brecht-Weill musical "Happy End" directed by Eleanor Holdridge (May 2-7).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: POPE AND THE WITCH, THE (PLAY)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: HOLY SEE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CONSERVATORY THEATER (52%); YALE SCHOOL OF DRAMA (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE SCHOOL OF DRAMA (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOLY SEE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); WRITERS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (88%); RELIGION (88%); SCANDALS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); LIBERALISM (72%); FILM (72%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (63%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN; FO, DARIO DARIO FO (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



630 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Vehicle Pollution Testing Is Delayed by Dispute

BYLINE: By JULIE MILLER 

 BODY:
WAITING is a common theme in stories about the State Department of Motor Vehicles. And the latest story is about a new emissions testing program that is said to be more convenient and more effective in detecting pollution than the test currently used. The program, delayed for three years, is scheduled to begin early next year. But there are questions about it that are still unresolved, and more waiting is a possibility.
The delay is due to a dispute between the Motor Vehicles Department and the Envirotest Systems Corporation of Arizona, the company operating the emissions test. The financial terms of the department's $138 million contract with Envirotest are among the issues in debate. 
 Michael Kozlowski, the Commissioner of the department, said he and Envirotest have settled most of their differences, and a draft of the revised contract will be sent to the state's Attorney General, Richard Blumenthal, for review.
While vehicles in the current emissions test are inspected during idling, the new test will require those with computer controls to be placed on a dynamometer, a device that simulates actual driving, for 93 seconds. In addition, gas cap seals will be checked to make sure they are tight, and certain vehicle models will be required to have catalytic converters. Vehicles manufactured between 1968 and 1980 will continue to be tested while idling.
Controversy over the program began in 1993, when then-Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. dismissed Louis Goldberg, then-Commissioner of the Motor Vehicles Department, after Mr. Goldberg opposed the awarding of the contract to Envirotest. The contract, which runs for seven and a half years, was signed in 1994 after heavy lobbying. Mr. Kozlowski reviewed the contract in 1995, shortly after he took office under Gov. John G. Rowland. Included in the agreement was a 240-second emissions test, known as the I/M 240, which was mandated under the Federal Clean Air Act.
Mr. Kozlowski said he felt the I/M 240 was too stringent and would create longer lines at the testing stations. So he backed away from the deal and began renegotiating with Envirotest. "I was worried about pushing too many people through too many lanes and causing a problem with a test I didn't think was necessary," he said.
At the same time, the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, under pressure from several states, decided to allow tests shorter than the I/M 240. Breaking the contract with Envirotest at that point would have cost the state between $40 million and $50 million, Mr. Kozlowski said. "A lot of people asked, 'Why don't you toss it out?' But the contract requires the state to pay Envirotest a certain amount if we terminate it, even if the company can't perform. How's that for a deal?"
Envirotest has saved at least $2 million since the contract was signed, because the more expensive 93-second test and other commitments have not been carried out. The Motor Vehicles Department wants the company to return the money, Mr. Kozlowski said. Laura Baker, public information manager at Envirotest, said company officials cannot comment on the contract because negotiations are still going on.
Last April, Envirotest requested a settlement by arbitration, a solution unacceptable to Mr. Kozlowski. "If we go into arbitration, the losing party will appeal, and this won't be resolved for two or three years," he said. "Connecticut can't wait two or three years, because the Federal Government requires us to have something in place by the end of 1997. Otherwise, we stand to lose $350 million in Federal highway funding."
As State Senator William Aniskovich, a Republican and chairman of the transportation committee, sees it: "We're at the whim of Federal changes. The I/M 240 was required. Now it's voluntary. We're struggling with the fact that we signed a contract before that change occurred. This is an all-too-typical example of the bureaucrats' tendency to ignore the real situations they create when they change regulations."
State Representative Jessie Stratton, a Democrat and chairman of the environment committee, said: "One of the enormous advantages to us is that we're not left like Pennsylvania, which is buying itself out of a contract. We'll end up with an emissions test."
The Motor Vehicles Department is attempting to be friendlier to motorists by making emissions testing less time-consuming, Mr. Kozlowski said. Five of seven new testing stations called for in the contract were opened last year in East Lyme, Southington, Manchester, Thomaston and Bridgeport. The shorter, 93-second emissions test is as effective in detecting pollution as the I/M 240, since a problem caused by faulty equipment shows up in the first minute, said John DeCicco, an analyst with the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy in Washington, D.C.
Other changes are being made. Older vehicles continue to be tested annually, but the fee has been dropped to $10 from $15. The emissions inspection fee is $20 for newer vehicles, and drivers receive a two-year sticker. Drivers whose vehicles fail the new test will be allowed 30 days for repairs and one free reinspection.
As in the past, an application can be made for a waiver if a vehicle fails the initial test and retest. Under the new policy, at least $250 worth of emissions repairs are required for a two-year waiver for a vehicle manufactured after 1980. Drivers of vehicles made between 1968 and 1980 must spend at least $125 in repairs for a one-year waiver. The Federal Government recommended a waiver requirement of $450 in repairs.
Under the contract with Envirotest, fleet vehicles must be driven through the emissions test. But the Motor Vehicles Department plans to allow fleet owners to inspect their vehicles themselves, Mr. Kozlowski said. "We want to be friendly to business," he explained, "and we don't want to add cars to lanes."
Another convenience to motorists will be the addition of inspection lanes at 11 emissions testing stations, Mr. Kozlowski said. Most safety checks are currently done at the department's branch offices. As he assembles the new program, Mr. Kozlowski said, he balances the need for shorter waiting lines against reality. "We have a pollution problem," he said. "We're trying to find a way to accomplish both ends."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Darien, a motorist gets a two-year sticker, above, and a technician, Craig Breakiron, left, measures tailpipe emissions. (Photographs by Helen Neafsey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: ENR (AMEX) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS811198 ALL OTHER AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE (91%); SIC7549 AUTOMOTIVE SERVICES, EXCEPT REPAIR & CARWASHES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ENVIROTEST SYSTEMS CORP ENVIROTEST SYSTEMS CORP (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES DEPARTMENT (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIROTEST SYSTEMS CORP MOTOR VEHICLES DEPARTMENT (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; AUTOMOBILES; TESTS AND TESTING VEHICLE EMISSIONS (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL TESTING (90%); VEHICLE INSPECTIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); CONTRACT AWARDS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JULIE RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



631 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Real Estate Investment Trusts;
Amid an Improving Climate, REITs Grow Steadily

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
I REALLY did not want to do $330 million in acquisitions in one year," said Scott Rechler, executive vice president and chief operating officer of Reckson Associates Realty Corporation. "We really had planned to do only $100 million, but some strategic opportunities became available, so we took them."
Indeed, Mr. Rechler has been on a tear, acquiring the Halpern Enterprises of Tarrytown, which owned 935,000 square feet of office space in Westchester County for $86 million last November. In September, he added the F.D. Rich-developed Landmark Square office complex, which has 800,000 square feet of office space in Stamford, Conn., for approximately $79 million. 
 Not bad for the Melville-based company that formerly confined its activities to industrial parks and office developments on Long Island. But Reckson is no longer the family real estate company it was for three generations.
Thanks to a public stock offering in May, 1995, Reckson has become a real estate investment trust, a publicly owned company with access to capital markets and shareholders to satisfy. It has broken out of its Long Island base with the acquisitions in Westchester and Fairfield Counties and is looking elsewhere.
"We have defined our operating area as within a 50 mile radius of Manhattan, with Manhattan and the boroughs carved out," Mr. Rechler said. He said the city was omitted from the company's target area, "because New York City is a very different game and we do not have the expertise to play in that game." Nevertheless, the company has grown from $400 million in assets to $775 million, and from 5 million square feet of property to 9.2 million square feet in a little over a year.
If Mr. Rechler starts looking at office property in New Jersey, he is likely to run into the Cali Realty Corporation, the other fast-growing, locally managed REIT (pronounced "reet") in the suburban area. Cali, which is based in Cranford, N.J., recently agreed to acquire the 1.9 million square foot Harborside Financial Center in Jersey City for $282 million.
"In 1994, when we did our initial public offering, we had $280 million in assets," said Thomas A. Rizk, the president and chief executive of Cali, which was a family-owned residential and commercial company for 45 years before selling stock. "Now, with Harborside, we are over $1 billion. That would have been unthinkable under our old structure."
He said the company's goal was to become a "superregional" real estate operation focusing on north central New Jersey. "We have a couple of 100 million square feet of office space to choose from, so it is a very big playing field," Mr. Rizk said. And he is busy playing. "We have a $1 billion in acquisitions in the pipeline," he said.
With banks and insurance companies badly wounded in the last real estate recession, REITs have grown rapidly and continue to do so, even though some traditional lenders have moved cautiously back into the market. "Insurance companies have pulled out of owned real estate and gone into lending because they want to be more liquid," said Darcy A. Stacom, a senior director at the Cushman & Wakefield brokerage in Manhattan. "So some of the funds and money managers have been putting capital into REITs."
Now, according to industry executives, pension funds have become the biggest investors in REITs. "At the moment, there is approximately $75 million a week of new money being invested in REITs," Mr. Rizk said.
Not all REITs are the same. The first of the current wave were floated by owners of large numbers of regional malls, such as A. Alfred Taubman of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., who were seeking to reduce their debt burden. Those were followed by REITs that invested in residential property, with office REITs a relatively recent development.
The current round of REITs differ sharply from the ones popular in the 1970's. Today's REITs are equity investors and are managed directly. The 1970s REITs were mostly mortgage lenders managed by advisers who, as one executive put it delicately, "did not always have their interests aligned with investors."
SINCE 1990, 131 REITs have gone public, raising a total of $20.2 billion in their initial public offerings, according to the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts in Washington. The entire REIT industry has a stock market capitalization of $70.5 billion.
According to many in the real estate industry, the rapidly growing public ownership of equity in real estate, notably by REITs, will largely put an end to family-owned commercial real estate companies. Mr. Rechler flatly predicts it.
"Within the next three to five years, a majority of domestic real estate will be publicly owned," he said. "The family company is dead."
"There may be some role for family operations in land development," said Jon Halpern, whose family company is now Reckson's Westchester division.
"We believe the REIT industry is here to stay," Mr. Rizk said. "There is a significant competitive advantage over a family company."
But Simon J. Milde, chairman of the Greenwich Group, a New York-based real estate marketing and investment services group, cautions that individuals are better innovators than organizations. "The REITs will own property that had been owned by institutions, but the family companies will continue to build and grow," he said.
Among the advantages of the REITs, their partisans say, is the ability to conclude deals rapidly, without the need to jump through hoops trying to arrange financing. "We have credibility, because we can close within 30 days," Mr. Rechler said. "We can bid less than other developers and still make the acquisition because of our ability to close."
Good properties are becoming available at significant discounts to replacement costs, industry executive say, because they reverted to lenders during the most recent downturn or the owners find themselves pinched for cash and facing big tax problems if they do a conventional sale.
"In the late 1980's a lot of people were forced to put in capital to attract tenants," Mr. Halpern said. "Now the property owners are stuck with debt coming due." Even though there will be little cash left on the table after these debts are paid if a property is sold, many have large paper capital gains that would lead to a large tax liability.
By conveying the property to a REIT through a device called an umbrella partnership and accepting partnership units rather than cash or stock, the capital gains tax is deferred until some other event takes place, such as the conversion of the units to REIT stock.
"It's a way to defer a problem," said Lawrence S. Jones, chairman of the REIT practice at Coopers & Lybrand. "It is often better to do it this way, rather than sell a property outright."
A REIT provides a nice tax break for investors as well because if it pays out 95 percent of its taxable income in dividends the income is taxed only at the individual level, rather than taxed at both the corporate and individual levels. This leads to dividends that are fat by corporate standards, often in the 5 to 7 percent range annually.
Although they are obviously becoming active in the New York suburbs, REITs have largely avoided the city itself. Real estate executives say this is because the city's scale is hard to square with the typical REIT goal of spreading credit and geographic risks over many properties. Buying a New York skyscraper for $300 million or $400 million would unbalance most REIT portfolios, they say.
SOME industry executives say that the liquidity provided by REITs will smooth the real estate cycle and that the discipline of the stock market will prevent the kind of lending that fueled the building boom of the mid-1980's. During that time, developers were putting up $400 million office skyscrapers in midtown Manhattan with virtually no money of their own invested in the project.
Many of those undertakings failed when they hit the soft market at the end of the decade and reverted to the lenders who absorbed the loss between the cost of development and the amount for which the property could be sold.
"Wall Street will rein the investments," said Steven L. Kantor, managing director of the real estate group at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. "It is a self correcting machanism."
He said that when analysts start souring on a stock, or individual investors become alarmed at the deals a REIT is announcing, shares will be sold, the price will go down and the funds for further investment will dry up. "If you don't like what's happening you can sell the stock," he said. "That's the point, you can get out."
But others worry that the search for high yields will drive REITs into ever riskier investments.
"It's getting tougher to get that 25 percent return," said Mr. Milde. "Two or three years ago you could buy good, well located buildings, but they are getting scarce. Now the only way you can get high returns is from new development. I think the next building boom will be fueled by Wall Street."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott Rechler, left, of Reckson and Jon Halpern of Halpern Enterprises at Reckson property in Melville, L.I. (Steve Berman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SLG (NYSE) (91%); CLI (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RECKSON ASSOCIATES REALTY CORP SL GREEN REALTY CORP (91%); MACK-CALI REALTY CORP (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: RECKSON ASSOCIATES REALTY CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (REIT); COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (94%); REAL ESTATE (93%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FAMILY (73%); INSURANCE (68%); CITIES (65%); SUBURBS (61%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN; RECHLER, SCOTT DAVID DAVIS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



632 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1761 words

HEADLINE: Women, the Issues And the Elections

BYLINE: By SUSAN PEARSALL 

 BODY:
AS the 1996 campaign season draws to a close, women's advocates in Connecticut say this may be remembered as the Year of the Woman Voter. Women's groups that are active politically are poised to capitalize on state and national polls that give President Clinton a large lead over Bob Dole.
"I think women voters in Connecticut are going to be critical, especially Republican women, whom I expect are going to cross party lines," said Laurel Tiesinga, executive director of the Connecticut National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League. Many Republican women disagree with Mr. Dole's anti-abortion rights position, she said. 
 Ms. Tiesinga predicted that women would head for the polls in greater numbers than in 1994, when less than 72 percent of registered women voted in gubernatorial and Congressional races, compared to 79 percent of registered men, according to the Center for the American Woman and Politics in Rutgers, N. J. "I think women have seen the outcome of their staying home in '94, which was the election of this anti-woman Congress," Ms. Tiesinga said, referring to Republican majorities on Capitol Hill.
The woman's vote has become increasingly important this fall as pollsters have identified a record gender gap. G. Donald Ferree Jr., a pollster at the University of Connecticut Institute for Social Inquiry in Storrs, cited the most recent state survey, which was conducted from Oct. 17 to last Wednesday and included Ross Perot as a contender. Mr. Ferree said that men came down as 40 percent for Mr. Clinton, 29 percent for Mr. Dole and 24 percent for Mr. Perot. Conversely, he said, "Women were 59 percent Clinton, 24 percent Dole and 8 percent Perot."
Four years ago, an institute survey predicted Mr. Clinton would garner 51 percent of the female vote and 41 percent of the male vote in a three-way contest with then-President George Bush and Mr. Perot.
In general, women tend to be more interested than men in human service issues including health care, day care, education and growing older, said Leslie Brett, executive director of the Permanent Commission on the Status of Women in Hartford. "In many cases, they are in charge of those problems in their lives," Ms. Brett explained.
"I expect a high turnout in this election," she said. "Things that are very important to women's lives are being debated." These include late-term abortions, support for public education, school vouchers and managed care reform, she said.
In February, the General Assembly is likely to address other issues that concern women. As the state moves more people off welfare, there will be a greater need for affordable child care, education and job training, Ms. Brett said. In addition, there could be talk of economic development for small businesses, frequently owned by women, and continuing action on managed care reform, she said.
Lara Manzione, director of the Connecticut chapter of the National Organization for Women, said her group is interested in presenting a domestic partnership law next year allowing homosexual couples to receive the same benefits as married couples.
One surprise -- Connecticut NOW has endorsed Charlotte Koskoff of Plainville, a Democrat, over incumbent Rep. Nancy L. Johnson, a Republican.
"We think that Nancy Johnson, who has been a friend of ours in the past, has shifted her focus away from representing the women in the district and has too closely aligned herself with Newt Gingrich," said Ms. Manzione.
In the State Senate, Republicans hold a slim 19-17 majority, which could fall to the Democrats if they win three races where Republican incumbents are considered by some analysts to be vulnerable. Connecticut NOW has endorsed all three Democratic candidates in those districts: Gary LeBeau of East Hartford, Mary Ann Handley of Manchester, and Tom Ganim of Fairfield. The Connecticut National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League, however, preferred the incumbent, Kevin Rennie, over Mr. LeBeau in East Hartford. What should women do to make the political process work for them?
"Women need to be unapologetic about saying that women's issues are priorities and that they will vote on the basis of candidates' positions on them," said Ms. Brett. "But also, women need to run, and they need to run at all levels."
Connecticut has a good reputation for electing women to office. In 1984, Ella T. Grasso became the first woman in the country to be elected in her own right as Governor. Today, both the Lieutenant Governor and Comptroller are women, and the Congressional delegation is 50 percent female. Connecticut ranks 11th among the 50 states for its number of female legislators, according to the Center for the American Woman and Politics. Currently, nearly 27 percent of the 187 state legislators are women. This fall, women are on the ballot in 40 percent of General Assembly contests.
"In many ways, we have a lot to brag about in Connecticut," Ms. Brett said. "But I don't think we can sit back and be too happy until it starts to hover around 50 percent all the time."
In 1994, Andree Aelion Brooks of Westport, a writer, founded the Women's Campaign School at Yale University. Each June, the school offers an intensive, five-day course taught by political consultants and successful candidates. Between courses, the school holds occasional one-day workshops, the next one scheduled for Dec. 7 and featuring Kathleen Harrington, former aide to Elizabeth Dole.
"I saw that there was an increasing pool of talented, experienced women in business and the professions who were not coming forward to go into elective office," Ms. Brooks recalled. "They were not making the leap into politics like successful men."
So far, more than 150 women have taken the course or attended a workshop, Ms. Brooks said. Last year, 10 graduates ran for municipal office and eight were elected.
This fall, three graduates are on the ballot in Connecticut: Terry M. Nevas of Westport is the Natural Law candidate for the Fourth Congressional District; Lisa E. Mason is challenging Michael J. Jarjura in Waterbury's 74th District, and Stephanie H. Sanchez is opposing the incumbent, Janet K. Lockton, for the 149th District seat serving Greenwich and Stamford.
This is the first campaign for Ms. Mason, a gregarious 43-year-old Republican who is as a sales representative for a golf equipment company. She said she entered the race after learning Mr. Jarjura, the Democratic incumbent, was a partner in a large development project in the district, a choice she believes compromises his integrity.
Mr. Jarjura says he does not see any potential conflict of interest stemming from this project or other commercial property he owns. He is not seeking zoning changes, and there have been no complaints filed with the state Ethics Commission, he said.
"I'm stressing my experience," Mr. Jarjura said. He cites helping secure $31 million in state money to demolish the former Scovill Manufacturing Company complex (off Interstate 84) and to do an environmental clean up of the site. A huge, regional shopping mall is planned for the location. Mr. Jarjura also mentions his vote to reduce income taxes this year for the first $15,000 of income.
Ms. Mason said gender, per se, has not been a problem for her. But fund raising is another matter. "When it comes to raising money, I don't have that 'old boy' network to go back to," she said. "And that is a gender issue." Generally, when women support Ms. Mason's campaign, "It will be $25, which I'm thrilled to take," she said. "But a man giving to another man, those checks are bigger."
Mr. Jarjura scoffed at the idea women have a more difficult time raising money for campaigns. "It's hard for everybody to raise money," he said. Mr. Jarjura said he expects to raise about $20,000 for his campaign; Ms. Mason said she has budgeted $10,000.
In the Greenwich-Stamford district race, both candidates are pro-choice women. Mrs. Lockton has been endorsed by Connecticut NARAL and Ms. Sanchez has the support of Connecticut NOW.
On the campaign trail, Ms. Sanchez is talking about improving education, the environment and the economy. Mrs. Lockton has recommended eliminating the income tax in Bridgeport to attract more middle class families, establishing medical I.R.A.s and enticing the state's best teachers to serve in city schools.
Ms. Sanchez expects to spend $10,000 to $15,000 on the race; Mrs. Lockton said her campaign will cost $14,000 to $16,000.
What happens in these races will depend on voter turnout, which could be a wild card this year due to some unusual circumstances.
Howard Reiter, a professor of political science at the University of Connecticut for 22 years, said voter registration is up thanks to a strong effort by Secretary of State Miles Rapoport and a new Federal law that allows voters to register at many state and Federal offices. On the other hand, Dr. Reiter says he doesn't see much excitment among voters for the Presidential candidates.
"You have these two factors working against each other," Dr. Reiter said. "I think it's very hard to predict." Voter turnout has been decreasing since 1960, except for 1992, Dr. Reiter said.
Mr. Ferree, the pollster in Storrs, said there are fewer undecided voters than in previous Presidential elections, but "the attention to the campaign seems to be somewhat less than four years ago."
"We don't see a single, dominant issue this year," Mr. Ferree said, "unlike 1992 when the situation was pointedly summed up by Clinton adviser James Carville, who said, 'It's the economy, stupid.' "
Mr. Ferree also expressed some reservations about how women's issues might play out in the election. "There is no clear evidence that women take a stronger pro-choice position than men do," he said.
Since September, Jean Rexford of Westport has been canvassing the state registering new voters for Women Voting for Our Future '96, an alliance of 45 civic, church and women's groups. This week, alliance members will be busy mailing postcards and making phone calls to get out the vote. She estimated the alliance had registered at least 2,000 new voters, most of them women.
Last year, Kate Cosgrove, was elected First Selectman for Oxford, a town of 9,300. It was the first time in the town's 197-year history that a woman sought the position. With her victory came a new sense of duty.
"I work very hard at what I do," Mrs. Cosgrove said. "I feel a responsibility so that other women can follow in this position.
"It can be done."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vying for the voters: In Greenwich and Stamford, Stephanie H. Sanchez, above, a Republican, is trying to unseat Janet K. Lockton in the 149th House District. In Waterbury, Lisa E. Mason, left, a Democrat, is challenging Michael J. Jarjura in the 74th House District. (Photographs by Helen Neafsey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NARAL PRO-CHOICE (57%); NARAL PRO-CHOICE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NARAL PRO-CHOICE (57%); NARAL PRO-CHOICE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTIONS; WOMEN ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WOMEN (90%); ABORTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (63%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (61%); CHILD CARE (61%); 

PERSON: PEARSALL, SUSAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



633 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Easing the Re-Use of Once-Polluted Industrial Sites

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
FOR the last 12 years the big industrial plant on Finderne Avenue in the Somerset County community of Bridgewater has sat vacant, idled by time and environmental concerns.
Now the 316,000-square-foot building set on 36 acres where the Singer company once manufactured electric motors has been given a second chance. The derelict site in the south-central portion of the township has been cleaned and sold to a new owner who is turning it into a distribution center. 
 ATS Wood Products, a local wood-processing and recyling firm, bought the property in August for $4.85 million to meet its expansion needs. The seller was Prospect Industries, a now-defunct manufacturer of steel cans that cleaned the site of the petroleum hydrocarbons left by Singer, which operated there until the early 70's.
The project reflects the slowly changing attitudes among buyers to re-use former contaminated properties. It also is evidence of the changing regulatory climate, in the state and the nation, toward relaxing government rules and offering incentives to steer development to such sites, known as brownfields. Generally, they are sites that are less polluted than a toxic-waste dumps, but need a more extensive cleanup than undeveloped green spots in suburban or rural areas.
In 1993, New Jersey acted to facilitate the reclamation of such sites by passing a law that adjusted pollution treatment standards. Subsequently the state provided tax incentives to buyers and, in some cases, eased the threat of liability .
Bills are working their way through the Legislature that would move those efforts even farther. And the Federal Environmental Protection Agency is, among other things, giving grants of up to $200,000 to cities across the nation to study the potential for brownfield development.
Of New Jersey's 23,000 known or suspected contaminated sites, nearly 50 percent have been cleaned up or are being investigated, according to the state Department of Environmental Protection.
"The change in the regulatory climate is meant to protect the environment and at the same time encourage development," said Fredi L. Pearlmutter, a Summit lawyer who specializes in environmental issues.
The Bridgewater site only partially benefited from the change.
In 1984, when Nathan Milikowsky, who bought Prospect Industries two years earlier, went to sell the site it triggered the tough new state law requiring that such tracts be cleaned of pollutants before they can be sold. A year later the sale unraveled and the state closed the building.
Mr. Milikowsky, who by then had consolidated the business in North Brunswick, was liable to clean the contaminants Singer had left on the site, which over time had seeped throughout the building and into the ground beneath it.
Mr. Milikowsky filed a lawsuit against Singer to finance the cost of the cleanup and a 1989 settlement awarded him $5 million. The cleanup began a year later and by the time it was completed in 1995 Mr. Milikowsky said he had spent a total of $18 million -- including legal, engineering and carrying costs, such as security and property taxes.
Until that point the site was virtually unmarketable, said Paul D. Cohen, executive vice president at the Edison office of SBWE Inc., the brokerage marketing the property.
The cleanup was approved two years after changes were made in the state law governing the cleanup of such sites. In essence that 1993 law, the Industrial Sites Recovery Act, set up different standards for residential and nonresidential cleanups. It also permits alternative methods, including fences and impermeable caps to stop wastes from seeping out instead of requiring their removal.
THE Bridgewater case helped bring about those changes. And in turn, Mr. Cohen said, the change in standards expedited the state approval for the cleanup of the site, which was brought up to industrial standards. The site also carries deed restrictions to insure its industrial use.
The law also provided other incentives, including a $55 million fund that qualified municipalities and developers can tap to receive grants or low-interest loans to finance cleanups. To date, the state has approved some $20 million in grants or loans for about 164 projects.
Because the cleanup of the Bridgewater site was nearly complete by the time of the sale Mr. Milikowsky said he had received only $800,000 from the state fund. That along with the proceeds from the sale and some insurance money, however, was not enough to keep Prospect Industries out of bankruptcy, he said.
There have been other changes since the 1993 cleanup law went into effect. To further defray the cost of cleanups the state last January passed the Environmental Opportunity Zone Act. It permits municipalities to offer up to a 10-year tax abatement to reclaim industrial tracts and revive them for commercial or industrial use. And in July the state passed another law that offers purchasers of sites that have been, or are being, cleaned according to state standards immunity from liability from the state for past environmental problems if they are in qualified municipalities -- 66 of the state's total of 567.
Yet, the cost of cleaning up such sites and the potential liability risks they still carry remain hurdles said State Senator James E. McGreevey, a Democrat who is also Mayor of Woodbridge. His township is trying to spur the redevelopment of 800 industrial acres within its borders.
To that end Mr. McGreevey has introduced a bill that would, among other things, extend the Environmental Opportunity Zone Act to include converting industrial sites to residential use. The bill would also extend the state immunity to all qualified municipalities. Several other bills have been introduced that would further streamline the cleanup process.
"Removing the liability issue is one of several keys in attracting new developers and investors to these sites," said Ira Whitman, who heads an environmental consulting firm bearing his name in East Brunswick.
Also, the Federal Environmental Protection Agency is working out agreements with buyers to insulate them from E.P.A. suits. And it is backing demonstration projects in 76 cities across the nation, including Trenton, Newark and Camden.
"Any changes in the current laws and the adoption of new ones that make it easier to correct the problems are valuable," said Karen Waldron, manager of Trenton's brownfields project. She said Trenton initially was investigating three of its 50-plus brownfields to market to developers for re-use, including the former Champale brewery on Lamberton Street, near the city's new minor league baseball stadium.
Lawrence D'Andrea, brownfield coordinator at the E.P.A. regional office in Manhattan, said the agency would give out 25 more grants totaling $5 million and would provide $20 million more to help finance the cleanup of some of the demonstration projects as well as others.
DESPITE the problems, some investors see such sites as an opportunity to buy land at a reduced cost, said Mr. Cohen of the SBWE brokerage. But Ronald T. Corcory, assistant director of the site remediation division in the Department of Environmental Protection, added: "Brownfields only work if the economics are there." What it comes down is location, he said.
Location is what drew ATS Wood Products to the Bridgewater site, which Joseph Horner, the company's president, said was close to its recyling operation and convenient to Route 22 and Interstate 287. It was also the right size and price. "We couldn't duplicate this building in Somerset County for this cost," said Mr. Horner, adding that "we had done our homework and felt comfortable the site was absolutely clean."
As part of the deal Mr. Horner idemnified Mr. Milikowsky from any future liability and agreed to continue to monitor the groundwater on the site -- a state requirement.
ATS received an $11.5 million at below-prime-rate, 20-year loan from the New Jersey Economic Development Authority to acquire, renovate and equip the building. Mr. Horner said the work would be completed by next fall.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph Horner, left, of ATS Wood Products who bought Bridgewater plant and Paul D. Cohen, sale broker. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SEW (NYSE) (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PROSPECT INDUSTRIES INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; BRIDGEWATER (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: INDUSTRIAL PARKS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL REAL ESTATE (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); BROWNFIELD SITES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (88%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (88%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (87%); LEGISLATION (86%); LANDFILLS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (75%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (75%); MOTOR & GENERATOR MFG (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); METAL CAN MFG (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); LAWYERS (71%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (68%); TAX LAW (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); LITIGATION (60%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE NATHAN MILIKOWSKY (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



634 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
For New Haven, a Million-Square-Foot Indoor Mall

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN

 BODY:
SEVENTEEN large enclosed malls might be thought to be enough for a small state like Connecticut. But plans are well advanced for a million-square-foot complex in New Haven, facing the harbor at Long Wharf. It is being hailed as the salvation of a city too long becalmed in the economic doldrums.
"It will mean millions of shopping trips into New Haven a year," said Mayor John DeStefano Jr., "2,200 permanent jobs, $2.6 million in tax revenues. And the developer gets no tax breaks or subsidies." 
 This is not the first time that a mall has been on New Haven's agenda. For more than a decade a mall developer was sought to rehabilitate the city's gateway -- a stretch of Church Street lined with boarded-up stores, graffiti and litter. Deal after deal to replace the vacant Malley's and Macy's department stores and the faltering Chapel Square Mall have fallen through for lack of funds.
After considering 10 new proposals, the city chose New England Development of Newton, Mass., and the Fusco Corporation, a New Haven construction firm, to plan and build a $100 million regional mall at Long Wharf, tentatively called The Marketplace at New Haven. It will occupy 60 acres at the intersection of Interstate 95, I-91 and Route 34. The developers expect to apply for site plan approval in 1997 and complete the project by 2000.
"Financing we pretty much do on our own," said Stephen Karp, chairman of New England Development. His company has built 17 malls, mostly in New England. The Crystal Mall in Waterford is his only other Connecticut project.
"New England Development's strength is in being one of the premier high-end retail developers in the country," said Mayor DeStefano, "and Fusco brings a history of three generations of investment in the city and state."
Negotiations have begun on acquiring properties from the Pirelli-Armstrong Tire Corporation, Schiavone Realty Development Corporation, Modern Food Equipment and the Connecticut Department of Transportation. The eight-acre property of Connecticut Freezer, a cold-storage warehouse, has been optioned by the developers.
"Everyone is coming to the table understanding that we wish to do business without getting the city involved in condemnation," said Mr. Karp, who is also negotiating with high-fashion department stores to fill four anchor spots.
Abandoning the idea of a downtown mall has opened up new vistas for New Haven. "A mall right off the highway will make this a destination," said Salvatore Brancati, the city's Director of Economic Development. "Property values will rise and waterfront activity will be stimulated." Inquiries have already been made by excursion boats wanting to dock near the mall.
WHILE several businesses have operated at Long Wharf for decades, the area is isolated from the rest of the city by the railroad tracks and by I-95. New Haven's master plan envisions improved roads, a new railroad bridge and shuttle buses taking shoppers and their pocketbooks from the mall into this city's downtown, which will be dedicated to the arts, entertainment, specialty shops and restaurants.
A first step was taken by obtaining a commitment from the mall developers to create a plan for Macy's, now owned by the city, and a developer will be sought for Malley's. In a state of terminal disrepair, Malley's would be demolished if New Haven wins three lawsuits brought against it by the owner, Mordecai Litkis of New York City, for grievances varying from a condemnation appraisal to denial of permission to open a flea market.
The downtown entertainment district would expand New Haven's rich base of cultural amenities that includes Yale University's art galleries, concert halls and the Yale Repertory Theater, the New Haven Symphony Orchestra, the Shubert and Palace Theaters, numerous other art galleries, boutiques, restaurants and the mix of exemplary Colonial, Gothic, Victorian and contemporary architecture in which they are all housed.
Mayor DeStefano has suggested moving the prestigious Long Wharf Theater from the harborfront to downtown, a proposal that Edgar Rosenblum, director of the theater, would consider if, he said, "somebody builds us a theater with good access from the highway at a probable cost of $35 million."
Another element in the downtown revival is the rebuilding of the Park Plaza Hotel on Temple Street by the Cordish Company of Baltimore and Omni International, partners in the venture. The $25 million conversion of the 18-story structure into the Omni Hotel at Yale begins next month and is scheduled for completion in late 1997.
"Yale will be a prime source of hotel patrons," said Blake Cordish, vice president of the company. A $9.9 million grant by the state will keep room rents at "an acceptable level."
In addition, Cordish has optioned the Chapel Square Mall, which abuts the hotel on three sides and is owned by the Greater New Haven Chamber of Commerce. It contains 250,000 square feet of retail space and an 11-story office tower, now 40 percent and 60 percent vacant, respectively. Mr. Cordish plans to renovate it into a 20-screen cinema, restaurants, a comedy club and shops.
Getting to all these diversions will involve major highway construction headaches. About 120,000 cars a day traverse I-95 at Long Wharf, or use its interchange to enter and leave New Haven. The mall will bring more than 30,000 additional cars daily. And just east of the interchange I-91 merges into I-95 from three lanes to one, creating a motorist's nightmare.
Plans by the state's Department of Transportation have been in the works for some time to reconfigure the merge, widen the Quinnipiac Bridge leading to the Long Wharf interchange, and move the interchange slightly west. "We will present six alternatives for public hearing by the end of this year," said Carmen P. Trotta, supervising planner for the department. They range from rehabilitating the existing three-lane bridge to demolishing it and building a 10-lane structure south of it. Developers, he noted, are required to pay for whatever improvements must be made to accommodate traffic generated by their projects.
WHILE support for the mall is virtually universal, the Westfield Corporation of Los Angeles and the Jerde Partnership, a Venice, Calif., design firm, oppose it and are jointly drafting a presentation of their own for reviving downtown New Haven. Westfield has built four Connecticut malls -- in Milford and Trumbull, both within 16 miles of Long Wharf, and in Enfield and Meriden.
"What is proposed is over-retailing for New Haven," said Richard Green, president of Westfield. "The demographics are not there for an upscale mall. Bloomingdale's and Neiman Marcus will not go into New Haven. They will not see it as a viable market. If the goal is to revitalize downtown it will not be achieved with a mall at Long Wharf that will suck every retailing opportunity out of the city."
His view is not shared by Frank Logue, New Haven's elder statesman and two-term mayor from 1976 through 1979. He said he had strongly opposed a proposed mall in North Haven "because it was likely to take jobs and taxes away from New Haven."
Concerned about declining population, white flight, and punishing property taxes of $61.14 per $1,000 of assessment, he said, "this mall might take some jobs, but it will also create them. Any adverse effect on downtown businesses would be offset by a net gain in jobs and taxes."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rendering of the planned Marketplace at New Haven indoor mall superimposed on waterfront site. (Arrowstreet Inc.)
 
Map of New Haven showing the location of Yale University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (94%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); SIC1541 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND DEVELOPMENT CO; FUSCO CORP NEW ENGLAND DEVELOPMENT (94%); MACY'S INC (84%); FUSCO CORP (82%); YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND DEVELOPMENT CO; FUSCO CORP YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN (CONN); UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING (89%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); PROPERTY TAX (75%); TAX LAW (75%); MARINE VESSELS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); GENERAL WAREHOUSING (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR; DESTEFANO, JOHN JR (MAYOR) TONY NEWTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



635 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.;
What Makes a Toy Fun? Ask a Child Who Wants to Own It

BYLINE: By BILL KENT 

DATELINE: MOUNT LAUREL

 BODY:
Dressed like a big sister home from high school, Amy Pace asked six 5-year-old girls what their favorite colors were.
Some of the girls looked at the yellow, turquoise and maroon tiles on the ceiling of the test playroom at Tyco Toys here and repeated what they saw. Others looked at some brightly colored dolls invitingly arranged a few yards away. One girl studied her reflection in a large mirrored wall. 
 Then she saw the dolls. "Can we play now?" she asked impatiently.
Behind the mirrored wall, which lets a half-dozen Tyco employees observe the children without being seen, Donna Trepiccione cheered. As the designer of the dolls that were being tested, she was delighted that one girl wanted to skip Ms. Pace's carefully worded introduction about how it was O.K. for each girl to have her own favorite color, toy preferences and opinions. That a tester was eager to play with Ms. Trepiccione's dolls meant that the dolls had visual appeal.
Standing behind Ms. Trepiccione, Lori Gardner, a research analyst, was subdued. As the coordinator of this session, one of three she conducts each week, Ms. Gardner would issue a confidential, highly technical report about play patterns, toy durability, "can-do aspects" and other "playability characteristics" that could ultimately influence whether Ms. Trepiccione's dolls would be on toy stores' shelves for Christmas 1998.
Ms. Trepiccione beamed as the children pounced on her dolls. Then she heard the snap of plastic cracking. "Break out the zip and kicker," she sighed.
As she gathered her bottles of zip (a fast-drying glue), and kicker (a spray that makes the glue dry even faster), Craig Spitzer, the Tyco executive in charge of what he calls the pre-search program, said: "These are exactly the kinds of things we want to happen. At this stage, we're not concerned with how much it will cost to make the toys or if they'll appeal to the retailers. We just want to see what goes on when you put toys in a room with bunch of normal kids."
Tyco's most popular products include the View-Master, Magna Doodle, "Sesame Street" preschool toys, Matchbox diecast cars and a line of radio-controlled model vehicles. The company has 2,200 employees worldwide, with 350 at its Mount Laurel headquarters. It reported $709 million in gross sales last year and last week announced a sales record of $256 million for the third quarter.
Although a majority of its toys are currently made in Asia, Tyco, America's third largest toy maker, has tried out prospective toys on South Jersey children since 1926, when John Tyler of Mantua founded the Mantua Metal Products company to make model railroad equipment.
"Most of the time, the toys were tested on employees' children or their neighbors' children, long after toys were out of the design phase," Mr. Spitzer said. "We didn't really get scientific about it until I came on board."
That was in 1992. Mr. Spitzer, who has a Ph.D. in psychology from the University of Illinois, was hired from Mattel, America's largest toy maker, to design a testing facility at Tyco's headquarters here.
What began in an unused corporate meeting room, where Tyco employees fidgeted in a corner, has evolved into an airy, carpeted, well-lighted playroom with a spacious observation room, audio and video monitoring systems, a toy-filled waiting room for parents, and a database of 6,800 South Jersey children, from preschoolers to teen-agers.
The children, recruited through advertisements in schools and local family publications, are added to Tyco's database and called randomly. Racial, ethnic and economic backgrounds are not considered. The children are given toys -- not the ones they test -- for spending 20 minutes or so playing under the watchful eyes of Tyco employees.
Toys must pass a safety inspection before children test them, Mr. Spitzer said. "Child safety is our No. 1 concern," he said. "We try to stop the kids from throwing the toys or playing with them roughly. But we also want to see what it is about the toy that brings out that kind of reaction."
Toys occasionally break, but Mr. Spitzer said no children had suffered any harm in the testing. "About the worst that happens is that some of them who want to keep the toy they're testing will cry when they have to give it up," he said.
So, at the end of each testing session, Ms. Pace, who supervises the children, passes out their free toys as rapidly as possible.
Toys that do not test well are usually sent back to their designers for more work. "Sometimes it's something so obvious that the inventors don't catch it until the the kids show them," Mr. Spitzer said. He mentioned the prototype of a children's video camera that Tyco is selling this Christmas, which was redesigned when the controls were found to be too large for young fingers.
Consulting her notes from the observation room, Ms. Trepiccione said she was pleased that the children "really liked the concept."
"But some had a hard time with the moving parts," she said, anticipating more sessions at the drawing board before the dolls would be tested again.
Toys that do well in Tyco's pre-search sessions undergo additional evaluations that determine how expensive the toy is to manufacture. Tyco then uses regional adult focus groups to determine the toy's appeal to retailers and parents. The process, from initial conception of a toy to the finished, packaged product, tends to take at least two years, although a toy that pre-searches well can be in the stores in as little as six months.
Which was too long for 5-year-old Gwyneth Darrow of Mullica Hill. After giving the dolls a workout in the playroom, Gwyneth told her mother to take her to a toy store so she could buy one. Her mother, Marion Hume-Darrow, encouraged her daughter to be patient.
Parents may register their children as toy testers by writing to Kidtesting, Tyco Toys Inc., 6000 Midlantic Drive, Mount Laurel, N.J. 08054. Children are selected for testing sessions on the basis of age and sex. Sessions are held weekdays at 3:30 P.M.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The most rigorous kind of consumer test: a session in the playroom at the headquarters of Tyco Toys in Mount Laurel. (Allen Oliver for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (50%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TYCO TOYS INC TYCO TOYS INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: TYCO TOYS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (50%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TOYS; TESTS AND TESTING CHILDREN (90%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); SALES FIGURES (85%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (77%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (77%); RETAILERS (69%); 

PERSON: KENT, BILL CRAIG SPITZER (83%); DONNA TREPICCIONE (68%); AMY PACE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



636 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.;
Paying the Piper, and the Bills, for Salem Nuclear Reactors

BYLINE: By KIT R. ROANE 

 BODY:
They were planned before nuclear became a bad word: twin reactors expected to supply cheap, clean energy to New Jersey. It was the late 1970's, before Chernobyl brought fear, and energy deregulation made them less attractive.
But the Salem reactors, managed and predominantly owned by Public Service Electric & Gas Company, are on the ropes. Dogged by structural problems and mismanagement, they have not lived up to their promise of cheap, safe power. 
 This year the two units ranked among 2 of the 10 worst reactors in the country, according to Public Citizen, an environmental watchdog group. Salem 1 ranked first on the list. The reactors have drawn more than a dozen fines from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in the last 15 years, and neither has been operating since spring 1995 because of safety concerns.
Their problems at Salem come to a head as the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities is reviewing options for deregulation of the state's energy market within the next five to seven years. Currently, New Jersey depends on nuclear power for 40 percent of its needs, but the history and fate of the Salem site may say a good deal about where New Jersey will head in the next two decades, in an uncertain future in which utilities are expected to compete with one another for both customers and power.
Salem's latest shutdown, one of 22 at the site, resulted in P.S.E.&G.'s offer on Wednesday of credits to rate-payers taling $83.9 million. These rebates, which will be disbursed in early 1997 if approved by the state Board of Public Utilities, roughly equal the amount paid by consumers that exceeded replacement energy costs. The company also promised not to seek reimbursement of another $12 million it spent on replacement energy.
But more important, said Michael Ambrosio, executive director of the Board of Public Utilities, the settlement departs from the past practice of allowing utilities to charge ratepayers even for plants that were not operating. Under the settlement, if the plants are not up and running within two years, the utility will have to absorb the cost of keeping them idle.
"We have shifted the risk of operating the plant to the utility," he said. "It changes the way we regulate the nuclear industry and is more reflective of what a competitive market would be."
Consumer groups and environmentalists say that the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities has ducked the more important issue of whether the plants should even be allowed to operate. They note that Salem 1 is about to undergo a $200 million overhaul to replace faulty steam generators. Salem 2, which is newer, has also had generator problems.
"We want them closed because they are not only dangerous but economically useless," said Staci Berger, the utilities organizer for New Jersey Citizen Action, the state's largest consumer group. "These plants have worked only about half the time they have been up, and have a dismal safety record. And once deregulation comes, we're worried they will let safety go right out the window in an attempt to compete."
The Board of Public Utilities says the Nuclear Regulatory Commission would continue to monitor safety issues even under deregulation. Critics don't find this argument convincing, noting that the commission has found it necessary to fine P.S.E.&G. $1.5 million since Salem has been operating, $680,000 of it for failure to fix already cited safety violations or for harassing inspectors who reported safety violations.
Despite the fines, a P.S.E.&G. spokesman, Neil Brown, said, "Public safety has never been compromised."
Mr. Brown said P.S.E.&G. itself was worried about how deregulation would affect safety. "The financial viability of the company operating these facilities needs to be maintained so that there is never an issue of safety being compromised for financial reasons," he said.
Noting that nuclear reactors were once encouraged by states as a clean source of fuel, many utility analysts say it is unlikely that the utilities that built them will be forced to swallow the cost of their inefficiencies or of shutting them down.
Another problem is that even if reactors cannot compete with the low-cost kilowattage of other energy sources, like natural gas, New Jersey has no other options that provide the amount of constant power the state requires. Energy can be conserved. "Dirty power" can be imported for coal-fired co-generation plants, and there is also gas. But none of this can be depended on to meet all of New Jersey's needs.
"There has to be some commitment to providing power to the region long term so you have to look beyond simple dollars and cents," said Barry Abramson, a utilities analyst with Prudential Securities Inc. "And weighing all the different factors, if these reactors begin to operate in the way most do, they can be efficient resources because of the indirect benefits like pollution abatement and the security of having a plant not dependent on the spot market for purchasing power."
This leads to the question of how deregulation will be defined. Mr. Ambrosio said that this is undecided, noting that there has yet to be a decision on whether utilities will be able to pass on to ratepayers the cost of shutting down a plant.
Deregulation may have its limits, he said, saying that there is some merit to the nuclear industry's argument that it has qualities deserving of protection.
"That is one argument for a continued role in the market for regional or state planning," he said. "We are looking at stability and fuel supply, whether we want to become vulnerable to price and supply swings. So far this is unresolved."
Analysts said Salem could become profitable. New management has been brought in to improve safety procedures and the company is working on replacing defective parts in the reactors. P.S.E.&G. says Salem 2 could meet N.R.C. regulations by the end of the year, while Salem 1 could be producing power by the end of 1997.
But the N.R.C. is still hedging.
"Salem reduced its margin of safety to what we would consider an uncomfortable point and because of that we have to come to an independent conclusion that they are safe before we let them restart," said Larry Nicholson, an N.R.C. official. "But they are making good progress."
One of the main concerns of environmentalists is that design, as much as management, is a problem, not only at Salem, but also at other reactors. Of the 110 nuclear power reactors operating in the United States, 73 are pressurized water reactors, at which superheated and pressurized radioactive water is channeled through thousands of tiny tubes in a steam generator, then brought to a boil. Once the water boils, steam transfers the heat into power, running turbogenerators.
The tubes at Salem 1 and 2, as in many other reactors, have been found to fracture. In Salem 2, fractured tubes have been plugged, but at Salem 1 the problem is so extensive that whole generators are being brought in as replacements. The Salem 1 cost is estimated at more than $200 million, raising the cost of any energy that is produced once the reactor is restarted.
P.S.E.&G. is suing Westinghouse, the maker of more half of the country's nuclear generators, including those at Salem.
"Our concern is that steam generator replacement is an expensive piecemeal approach to save an uneconomic power system," said Paul Gunter, spokesman for Nuclear Information and Resource Services, an environmental group in Washington. "These plants are aging much more quickly than the industry ever predicted. This is not where we want to be heading."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "AT ISSUE -- Powering the State: an Uncertain Future" lists sources of electricity in New Jersey and what it costs. (Sources: N.J. Board of Public Utilities, Prudential Securities)
 
Map of New Jersey highlighting location of nuclear reactors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC & GAS CO PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC & GAS CO (72%); NEW JERSEY BOARD OF PUBLIC UTILITIES (83%); NEW JERSEY BOARD OF PUBLIC UTILITIES (83%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (57%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (57%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (56%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC & GAS CO NEW JERSEY BOARD OF PUBLIC UTILITIES (83%); NEW JERSEY BOARD OF PUBLIC UTILITIES (83%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (57%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (57%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (56%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ATOMIC ENERGY; SALEM NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (NJ); ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY NUCLEAR ENERGY (93%); DEREGULATION (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); CONSUMER LAW (88%); POWER PLANTS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); APPROVALS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (62%); 

PERSON: ROANE, KIT R

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



637 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: MINDING YOUR BUSINESS;
Going Bankrupt: The Scarlet 'B' or the Great Escape?

BYLINE: By BRUCE FELTON 

 BODY:

Q. I've built up a heavy credit card debt load and can't seem to meet even the minimum monthly payments. Is declaring bankruptcy a practical solution?
A. It could well be, although a generation ago you probably wouldn't have dared. As a teen-ager, whenever I tried to cadge some extra cash from my father on the weekend, he would reluctantly hand me a few bills with a half-joking warning: "One of these days you'll bankrupt me." 
 Going bankrupt, I was to understand, was synonymous with going to the poorhouse or to hell in a handbasket. No fate could be more unspeakable.
No more. This year, a record 1.1 million individuals and businesses, 20 percent more than in 1995, are expected to shuck at least part of their debts by filing petitions under the Federal Bankruptcy Code. The trend can be explained by many factors, including the lure of legalized gambling and the easy availability of credit cards.
For many people, though, declaring personal bankruptcy is an effective way to escape situations they cannot control.
"I see many cases where a family is just getting by as long as both spouses work," said M. Daniel Cantor, a bankruptcy lawyer in Lawrenceville, N.J. "Their finances are stretched to the max, and then an illness or a job loss pushes them over the edge. Suddenly, they can't meet monthly expenses or even minimum credit card payments."
In such situations, a Chapter 7 bankruptcy is the most popular approach because it allows you to wipe out your debts and start fresh. It discharges bank and charge-card balances, medical and utility bills and lawsuit damages, and it bars creditors from further efforts to collect. About 750,000 Chapter 7 filings are expected this year.
"If you were to adopt a new austerity budget -- no travel, no new clothes -- and still couldn't pay off your nonmortgage debt in three to five years, bankruptcy could make sense," said Andrew Feinberg, the author of "Downsize Your Debt: How to Take Control of Your Personal Finances" (Penguin Books, 1993, $10.95).
However, bankruptcy comes at a price. For example, not all debts are dischargeable. You will still have to pay your most recent back taxes, student loans, alimony, child support, criminal fines and certain other legal judgments against you. You could also be relieved of some of your own financial and material assets, which will be liquidated and distributed to your creditors. These assets include bank accounts, stocks and bonds, artwork, jewelry of more than a certain value and other luxury items. But in reality, Mr. Cantor said, "Many people wind up having to give up surprisingly little."
If you own a home, you stand a chance of losing it, because you may be permitted to keep only part of your equity. The amount varies by state. In New York, the courts will seize any real estate you own, sell it and give the lion's share of the proceeds to your creditors, allowing you to keep just $10,000. In Florida and Texas, your home is completely exempt.
But bankruptcy won't reduce you to dressing in newspapers. You are usually permitted to keep one car, household furnishings, clothing, retirement accounts and personal-injury awards.
A bankruptcy notice remains on your credit report for up to 10 years. During that time, it will be difficult to obtain an auto loan or a mortgage, and some credit card companies will cancel your account. (Others, secure in the knowledge that you are legally ineligible to file for bankruptcy again for six years, will be only too happy to issue you a new card, but with a sky-high interest rate.)
"Tread carefully, because you can't undo a bankruptcy," warned Charles Benning-
hoff 3d, a lawyer in San Juan Capistrano, Calif. "I've had clients who filed only to discover that they couldn't get financing for a new business idea that might have made them wealthy."
The toughest part of a bankruptcy may be the sense of shame and failure it often brings. "Most people agonize over the decision to file and are deeply embarrassed," said Ronald Weiss, a partner at Berman, DeLeve, Kuchan & Chapman, a law firm in Kansas City, Mo.
But if you're troubled by the stigma of bankruptcy, you can take comfort that celebrities like Kim Basinger and Mickey Rooney have gone the same route. Even Thomas Jefferson filed for bankruptcy.
The Chapter 7 filing process is not as onerous as you might expect. You should first consult a lawyer who specializes in bankruptcies but has other areas of expertise as well. The idea is to work with someone who knows the territory, but doesn't view bankruptcy as a cure-all.
"It's important for the lawyer to play devil's advocate, just to make sure the client understands all the choices," said Lee Madere, an economist and lawyer in New Orleans. Sometimes, less drastic alternatives to Chapter 7 may be suitable, like negotiating a payment plan with your creditors or filing a Chapter 13 bankruptcy, which lets you keep some of your assets while you partly repay your debt over three to five years.
After you've decided to move ahead, you must provide details on all your creditors, debts, assets, income and expenditures. Make sure the list is complete, because debts you omit will not be discharged. Deliberately hiding assets can land you in jail.
As soon as your lawyer files your petition with the United States Bankruptcy Court, your creditors will be notified and ordered to stop dunning you. A few weeks later, you will be required to attend a meeting with a Federal trustee and any creditors who wish to be heard. These hearings usually take less than 10 minutes. You will be asked some questions and, assuming nothing irregular is uncovered, you will receive within three months a discharge of your debts. Legal and filing fees often come to less than $1,000.
Even if you are filing for bankruptcy, it is advisable to settle some of your debts, like those with doctors and local merchants. "If your child has just been fitted for braces, you'll want to pay your orthodontist's bill in full, even though you are legally off the hook," Mr. Weiss said. "Otherwise, you may find yourself in a tough spot when it's time for the braces to come off."
 
Questions about investing, careers and personal finance may be sent to Minding Your Business, Money and Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York 10036, or by electronic mail to yourmind@nytimes.com. Questions will be answered only in the column, not by mail, E-mail or telephone.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Starting Over" shows number of Federal bankruptcy filing under Chapter 7, which allows individuals and businesses to wipe out most of their debts. (Source: Bankruptcy Yearbook and Almanac)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: PENGUIN PUBLISHING CO LTD (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); NEW JERSEY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (97%); PERSONAL DEBT (92%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); SPOUSAL SUPPORT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); PETITIONS (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); BONDS (73%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (71%); LITIGATION (70%); LAWYERS (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); DISMISSALS (65%); LUXURY GOODS (60%); WRITERS (60%); CRIMINAL FINES (50%); 

PERSON: FELTON, BRUCE M DANIEL CANTOR (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



638 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS;
Generation X Is Getting a Financial Life

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER 

 BODY:
GENERATION X'ERS are:
A. Slackers.
B. Savers.
C. More inclined to believe in U.F.O.'s than in the future of Social Security.
D. All of the above. 
 Those who selected "D" may be closest to the truth. The members of Generation X -- the roughly 50 million Americans between the ages of 18 and 32 -- are many things to many people. But when it comes to investing, they have been largely ignored. Only recently have financial service companies and mutual funds begun reaching out to this group with educational materials or enhancements like reduced sales fees.
"The people who are running mutual fund companies assume this generation is full of people who are not paying attention to their money and are sort of frivolous slackers who don't really care about investing," said Beth Kobliner, who wrote "Get A Financial Life: Personal Finance in Your 20's and 30's" (Fireside/Simon & Schuster, 1996). "What I found is this generation is extraordinarily interested in the topic of personal finance in general and investing in particular."
To be sure, it is a generation with some financial characteristics that make it less attractive, as a target market, than older Americans. Studies have found that, as a group, members of the generation are making less money, adjusted for inflation, than their parents did at their age, and that they tend to carry a lot of debt, largely as a result of student loans or credit cards.
Still, Ms. Kobliner and others familiar with the market said that the financial service industry had been short-sighted in not focusing more on this group.
"It's probably not as much financial service companies saying Gen X'ers don't have an interest," said Alexandra Lebenthal, the 32-year-old president of Lebenthal & Company, the municipal bond brokerage firm. "Being more realistic, they probably are saying they don't have enough money right now."
That is the case for Stephen Herschkowitz, a 23-year-old senior at the University of Washington who is set to graduate in weeks.
"It would be really nice if I had the disposable income to put into a savings account or mutual fund," said Mr. Herschkowitz, who, in addition to working on the student newspaper, holds down a job as a grocery checker for $9 an hour. "Unfortunately, I have so many credit card bills."
Though Mr. Herschkowitz paid off about $2,000 he had placed on credit cards for a trip to Europe, he then used them to buy a new computer. He now has four credit cards, with balances ranging from $600 to $2,500.
"Instead of investing money for my future, I'm in equipment for a more solid future," he said, noting that the computer would be important as he pursued a career in journalism.
One factor affecting Mr. Herschkowitz's strategy is his belief that he does not have a big enough pool of money to invest. Given the option of putting away smaller amounts on a regular basis, he said, he would take advantage of it.
Companies trying to reach Generation X are beginning to emphasize that possibility.
American Express Institutional Services, for example, used the phrase "What a Can of Pop Can Do for Your Future" in developing a marketing campaign for the 401(k) plan at Shopko Stores, a discount department store chain based in Green Bay, Wis. The dimes a day that pay for a soft drink, the campaign suggests, can be the start of a retirement program built on mutual fund investments.
American Express also developed a sprightly marketing program for Toys "R" Us employees that emphasizes the tax benefits of the company's 401(k) program. The promotion plays off the Presidential election. A poster proclaims, "When it comes to reducing your taxes this year, you've got three parties to choose from," and shows an elephant, a donkey and a giraffe. The giraffe represents the Toys "R" Us mascot, Geoffrey Giraffe, and his message is to put money into the company's plan.
John Palombo, a senior vice president of employee education with American Express Institutional Services, said that two years ago, younger employees were generally not participating in savings plans.
"We kind of wrote them off generally because we just assumed they fell into that broader, under-30 category that believes they are going to live forever and will do it later," Mr. Palombo said.
But that perception changed as the American Express unit worked with companies that had high concentrations of younger employees or that needed to increase employee participation in their 401(k) plans to meet Government requirements. Though the younger employees were initially more focused on jump-starting a career than on investing, that attitude seemed to change quickly as the employees got their feet on the ground.
"They began to say, 'I saw some of the struggles my parents or friends of the family were going through and I'm going to start dealing with this now,' " Mr. Palombo said.
Besides focusing on the workplace, some mutual fund companies are reducing sales charges or waiving minimum investment amounts on certain funds.
AT Lebenthal & Company, customers age 35 and under can get a break of half a percentage point on sales fees for the company's three bond funds. While bonds remain a hard sell to a younger market, Ms. Lebenthal said, the reduced fees have attracted some younger investors.
Ms. Kobliner said mutual funds were offering attractive programs that allowed people to invest as little as $25 in a fund, if additional investments were made on a regular basis. The minimum initial investments had generally been $1,000 and up.
T. Rowe Price has what it calls the Automatic Asset Builder program, which waives the minimum investment in virtually any fund but requires a minimum contribution of $50 a month. Steven Norwitz, a vice president with the company, said that the program had not been planned with Generation X in mind but that it had attracted that group because of its appeal to investors who were just starting out.
But the potential impact of Generation X on the investment world may be gaining appreciation. Recent studies show members of this age group are investing for their future in greater numbers than expected.
According to a 1995 survey by Roper Starch Worldwide of nearly 2,100 middle-income and affluent Americans, 61 percent of 20-somethings said they or their spouses had put aside money for retirement, with three out of four saying that retirement was a priority for their savings. Indeed, the survey found that 58 percent were participating in 401(k) plans, compared with 52 percent of baby boomers, aged 30 to 49.
The Investment Company Institute, a trade association for mutual funds, provided additional evidence of the trend earlier this year. A survey of 1,200 fund holders found that those aged 18 to 30 were investing 38 percent of their assets in mutual funds, a greater percentage than for baby boomers, who were investing 27 percent in mutual funds.
"The results clearly identified that there had been some myths about the generations as far as savings and investments were concerned," said Sandra J. West, director of marketing and policy research at the institute.
Not all financial decisions made by young people are necessarily sound. Early this year, a Louis Harris poll of 412 men and women aged 20 to 39 found that while 62 percent had bought lottery tickets in the last year, only 30 percent had invested money in stocks, bonds or mutual funds.
Still, the fact that many young people have little faith that the Government will provide for them in the future may bode well for investment companies.
"One reason they might be more prone to save is they don't think the Government programs that are designed to help them in their retirement will be there," said Richard Thau, executive director of Third Millennium, a nonprofit group focusing on long-term economic problems facing people in their 20's and 30's.
In a 1994 survey of 500 people aged 18 to 34, Third Millennium found that while 46 percent thought U.F.O.'s existed, only 28 percent believed that Social Security would be there when they retired.
"You're talking about a generation that would like to redirect their money into private accounts," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Posters at a Toys "R" Us in Paramus, N.J., encourage workers like James Johnson, 24, to save for retirement. (Norman Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); GENERATION X (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (76%); SCHOOL BONDS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (72%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (70%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (70%); STUDENT LOANS (69%); SECURITIES BROKERS (69%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (60%); 

PERSON: WHITAKER, BARBARA ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



639 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: SPENDING IT;
The Bonus Isn't Reserved for Big Shots Anymore

BYLINE: By BARBARA B. BUCHHOLZ 

 BODY:
A SMALL shoe store rewards workers each week for exceeding the previous week's sales. A big company cuts a special check for employees in January, using a complex formula based on last year's operating profits. No matter how simple or sophisticated, each plan is a form of bonus pay, a fact of life for more and more Americans.
Next year, more than a third of hourly workers will get some bonus pay, which was once reserved mostly for a company's top brass and sales staff. 
 Bonuses may be disguised in corporate jargon as incentive or variable pay, but the concept is an old one: paying employees for performance. Instead of singling out an individual's work, the performance of a division or an entire company is rewarded.
According to an annual survey by Buck Consultants, an employee benefits and compensation consulting firm, the portion of Fortune 1,000 companies that offer bonus pay plans for hourly employees has risen from 26 percent in 1993 to 34 percent. Thirty-seven percent of the companies surveyed said they would offer some type of incentive pay next year.
At many companies, bonuses are in addition to annual merit raises, which are based on an individual's work, not the group's. But experts say incentive plans could eventually replace merit-based pay, just as declining inflation in the 1980's led some employers to eliminate cost-of-living increases.
Why the change? With merit raises, a percentage of salary becomes a permanent part of paychecks, is factored into pensions and is announced at the end of the year. Bonuses are often distributed in the first quarter, usually in a lump sum, if the company or work group met or exceeded expectations in the previous year, said Paul Gavejian, a principal with Buck.
For hourly workers who received bonuses this year, the amounts were typically 3 to 8 percent of base salary. Mr. Gavejian said. Middle managers received 10 to 17 percent, and executives often 100 percent or more.
Jeff Maiken embraced the bonus idea when he became president and general manager of the Zaca Mesa Winery, a small operation in Los Olivos, Calif., 50 miles north of Santa Barbara. He wanted a way to bolster productivity while keeping a lid on fixed costs. In the wine and spirits industry, sales and profits can fluctuate widely based on unpredictable factors like weather and the growing season. Productivity is something he can try to control.
His solution was to pay all employees a low base salary, plus a bonus once a year if the company reached its goal for operating income by year-end. "Bonuses have run from last year's zero, when the company ran out of certain varietals and performance was below expectations. to an anticipated 20 percent this year due to increased case sales and margins," Mr. Maiken said.
Brian H. McPherson, 27, a clerk in the company's accounting department, considers incentive pay "generally good" even though he didn't receive a bonus last year. The year before, he got $400, but this year he expects a few thousand dollars.
"It gives you the motivation to work harder," he said. "It makes you better aware of operations and gets you away from the tunnel vision of your own department." In some years, "you have good luck as well as bad luck," he added. "This year we expect to do very well."
There are other reasons for bonus pay. Merit pay is often pegged to inflation. Since the inflation rate is about 3 percent, Alan Johnson, managing director of Johnson Associates, compensation consultants, said companies had found it hard to motivate workers with such tiny pay raises. That's especially true as employees perform more tasks because of layoffs. Merit increases have been steadily inching down, from 4.2 percent in 1993 to a projected 4 percent next year, Buck Consultants said.
While it is difficult to know how many employers use merit-based pay, fewer are doing so, particularly in the financial services sector, Mr. Gavejian said.
Bonuses are also thought to be better for promoting teamwork. "The thinking is that when the company does well, the employees do well, and all save money and should be rewarded," said Susan B. Rowland, a principal at Towers Perrin, benefits consultants.
Bonuses can be distributed in a slew of variations to meet specific company needs, said Ira Kay of Watson Wyatt Worldwide, compensation and benefits consultants. Among the most popular are annual incentive awards paid in a lump sum, and broad-banding, which reduces the number of salary grades at a company but increases the amount of money available in each grade.
And while bonuses can be given to individuals or to an entire staff, Todd R. Zenger, associate professor at the Olin School of Business of Washington University in St. Louis, said the trend was to reward small groups so people felt they had contributed.
Edith James, president of Comfort Shoe Specialists, which manufactures and sellscustom shoes, support hose and accessories, pays bonuses to her six employees, but does so weekly instead of annually. They receive a $50 bonus if weekly sales exceed those of the previous week. The goal was challenging, but spurred the company to achieve annual sales of $1 million in four years.
"I'm a firm believer that you only get quality people if you pay," said Ms. James, whose business is in a strip shopping center outside St. Louis. "We all pitch in."
But bonuses can backfire. Companies can inadvertently encourage the wrong behavior in employees by tying compensation to increased sales, said N. Fredric Crandall, a partner at the Center for Workforce Effectiveness, a management consulting firm.
Sears, Roebuck & Company used to reward auto-shop employees according to the size of the repair bills. The upshot? Overbilled customers and lawsuits.
Nevertheless, many experts on compensation say the advantages outweigh the disadvantages. Since the change at Zaca Mesa, production has jumped 140 percent to an estimated 42,000 cases of wine, an increase Mr. Maiken attributes in part to bonuses and more motivated employees. While gross profits have tripled in the same period, expenses have risen just 35 percent.
Mr. McPherson, the clerk, finds the incentive more a plus than a minus. "You can't count on it, but that's business," he said. "Stockholders don't always get dividends, either."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Little Extra for Their Employees" shows the number of Fortune 1000 companies offering bonus plans for hourly workers, 1993 to 1997. (Source: Buck Consultants)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: BUCK CONSULTANTS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; BONUSES; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BONUS PAY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); MERIT PAY (90%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SALES FORCE (78%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); SHOE STORES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); COST OF LIVING (71%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (68%); WINERIES (60%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (60%); 

PERSON: BUCHHOLZ, BARBARA B PAUL GAVEJIAN (68%); JEFF MAIKEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



640 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK UP CLOSE;
Gay Leaders Look to the Ballot Box

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS 

 BODY:
Through decades of fighting discrimination, anti-gay violence and, most recently, AIDS, gay and lesbian New Yorkers learned that often the most effective way to shake up the status quo was through street protests and similar activism. But not until recent years did gay leaders learn to use the ballot box as a vehicle for change.
Now, in an attempt to build a cohesive gay electorate to rival the city's coveted ethnic voting blocs, the Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center on West 13th Street has begun a campaign, Promote the Vote, to identify and mobilize homosexual voters. 
 The center has hired a full-time organizer and hopes to build a gay bloc that could comprise as much as 16 percent of the city's electorate. "Gays and lesbians are following in the footsteps of blacks, Hispanics and even women, trying to assert their interests at the polls," said Phil Friedman, a Democratic political consultant.
So far, Promote the Vote has registered 4,000 voters and distributed thousands of pledge cards urging gay voters to turn out for every election, from local school board contests to Presidential primaries. "Just as the Christian right asks its supporters to sign pledge cards saying they will not vote for candidates who promote homosexuality," said Carlie Steen, the campaign's coordinator, "we're asking people to support candidates who keep our interests in mind." Among those interests are financing for AIDS research and support for public school curriculums that promote respect for gays.
Although gay voters can have a significant impact on national races, it is in local elections where a mobilized bloc can make a measurable difference. In last spring's school board races, for example, five of the six openly gay candidates on the ballot won, thanks in large part to a heavy turnout among homosexual voters.
But unlike other minority groups, many of whose members vote Democratic, gay voters are not monolithically Democratic, experts say. Robert Bailey, a Rutgers University professor, says that as the gay rights movement achieves more goals, the unity of the gay vote may weaken. "So many things divide our community, from economics to race and religion," he said. "As the younger generation comes of age, gay-related issues might become less important than concerns over crime and high taxes. Ironically, the so-called gay voting bloc may become a victim of our movement's success."
 ANDREW JACOBS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; HOMOSEXUALITY; ELECTIONS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PRIMARIES; REGISTRATION OF VOTERS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CURRICULA (77%); BALLOTS (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (76%); LGBT RIGHTS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); RELIGION (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



641 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 1; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2762 words

HEADLINE: Shooting Manhattan

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
JOHN WALSH came to New York University's film school as a bright-eyed freshman from Tarrytown, N.Y. Before long he had befriended Sally Roy, a classmate from Hartford who was originally a drama student but switched to film after realizing that a stage career meant she'd have to work nights.
Just two players in the strange puree of ego, ambition, insecurity and competitiveness that is the film school, they collaborated on their undergraduate work, making the black-and-white shorts that are meant to be steppingstones to real-life movie careers. Sally would edit John's films; John would act as cameraman for Sally's. They graduated in 1984 and went their separate ways. Ten years later, they made a movie together that opened in theaters last Friday. 
 The movie, "Ed's Next Move," is the gently told tale of how a young scientist from Wisconsin learns to make his way in New York, from finding an apartment to securing a first date -- a kind of "Local Hero" meets E. B. White's essay "Here Is New York." John wrote and directed it; Sally produced it.
That's just the outline of the story of how this movie -- one of perhaps hundreds of independent films being made in the city at any given time -- came to be. Over the last half-dozen years, New York has become the capital of the independent film, generally defined as a low-budget feature with no financial backing from a major studio. "Probably two-thirds of our feature films are independent," says Patricia Reed Scott, Commissioner of the Mayor's Office of Film, Theatre and Broadcasting, which issues permits to movie crews.
They have become the self-defining medium of choice. "It's like writing your first novel was, 10 years ago," says Valerie Sheppard, market director of the Independent Feature Film Market, a film festival held every September at the Angelika Theater on Houston Street. "Now it's making your first film."
People point to certain forces creating the boom, like the increasing numbers of film students in New York -- from N.Y.U. to Columbia to the School of Visual Arts -- and an increase in production-related companies here that can do everything for an independent film, from renting a camera crew to dubbing the soundtrack for a foreign release. First-time film makers can find themselves working down the hall in post-production with Woody Allen or Martin Scorsese, or taking over a set abandoned in a sound stage by someone equally well known.
Reinforcing this are the film festivals: at prestigious ones like Sundance, many of the films that set people buzzing -- about Chinese restaurants, Brooklyn teen-agers, youthful lesbians -- are made here, by people the average moviegoer has never heard of, on budgets the size of the proverbial shoestring.
Out of this recent tradition comes "Ed's Next Move," which was finished despite the many headaches that seem to accompany most independent efforts. With hardly any money to film with (a grand total of about $93,000), and most of it leveraged with a stack of credit cards, Mr. Walsh and Ms. Roy had to wrest agreements out of people to do things for less, if not for free. A few key things fell gracefully into their hands; several others collapsed before their eyes. Certain New Yorkers surprised them with helpfulness. And they got towed a lot.
Along the way, a recurring theme developed -- something about making up for a shortage of cash with an abundance of goodwill. And about asking people, often for a lot, at this panhandling extreme of a glitzy industry.
"A lot of the production assistants learned a good lesson on this movie," Ms. Roy says. "And that was, if you don't have a lot of money, you have to be kind."
Now, with Orion Classics picking up the American rights and a German company paying to show the film in Germany, they have broken even -- meaning their income has now met up with their filming and production costs, if not the $990,000 in deferred salaries to cast and crew and some other costs, Mr. Walsh says. The future -- profit margins, financing for a second film he's writing, even their reputation in the gossipy movie world -- is a little less clear.
"The big question is, when they do their second film, how are they?" says Bill Nisselson, studio manager at Sound One, a sound-editing company, who has seen plenty of promising film makers transmogrified by money and power. "Everybody doesn't necessarily stay the same way."
 
Going It Alone. Scraping Up the Money
The movie was originally titled "More Bad Times," and Mr. Walsh wrote it in 1991 when he was collecting unemployment. (He had worked on a couple of major movies, "Married to the Mob" and "Dogfight," in off-screen supporting roles.) Over the next 18 months, he rewrote it six times. He shopped it to a couple of studios, where executives said things like, "We need a famous actor," to the point that Mr. Walsh decided to just make it himself.
Then he started talking to Ms. Roy about it. "Ultimately, John and I must have talked to each other every day for three years about this movie," Ms. Roy says.
She wasn't going to be the producer. Mr. Walsh had already talked her husband, Peter Nelson, into being his director of photography, and Ms. Roy had said she didn't think it was feasible for both of them to work without pay. At the time, she was the production manager for a PBS series with Bill Moyers, "Healing and the Mind."
But then it appeared that a woman Mr. Walsh knew, whose father ran a cable company, might underwrite the filming for as much as $500,000. He approached Ms. Roy again and said, "You wouldn't have to do it for free." She agreed to be the producer. Then the woman's father didn't like the script, and the plan collapsed. But Ms. Roy never did resign from the project.
They started gathering everything they would need to make the film, like money. They came up with $13,000 between them; $70,000 more came from Visa and Mastercard. (Much later, a crew member tossed in an additional $10,000.) Mr. Walsh had 12 cards bearing his name by the time the movie finished shooting.
"A lot of places take credit cards now," Mr. Walsh says, reflectively. "Sometimes there were vendors that let us use a credit card to pay our bills. I did have to take out a few huge cash advances. I'd go into a bank and say, 'I need $9,000 in cash,' then hand them my Capital One card."
Such financing is not unusual, but not recommended, said Dana Harris, managing editor of the Independent Film and Video Monthly. "But John's got that strange combination of logic and blind faith, which is an excellent combination for an independent film maker," she said.
At the same time, they were auditioning actors, lining up locations, learning to accept the word "No!" and figuring out how to move on. They cajoled people they knew into working on the movie gratis, using their network of film school friends and friends from subsequent projects. They enticed others with notices tacked to bulletin boards, promising experience in exchange for weeks of unpaid hard work.
One of the biggest traumas for Ms. Roy and Mr. Walsh was realizing they could not afford to work with the Screen Actors Guild, a source of good, experienced people. But at $75 a day, even the union's lowest rate would be too expensive for them.
Then along came people like Kevin Carroll, a 24-year-old New York University graduate who was then appearing as Belize in "Angels in America" on Broadway. Susan Shopmaker, the casting director, knew him and brought him to audition for the role of Ray, Ed's roommate. The part had not originally been written with a black actor in mind, Mr. Walsh said. But when Mr. Carroll tried out, it was a perfect match.
Locations posed another puzzle. Some of the things Mr. Walsh desperately wanted, like a quaint Russian coffee shop in the East Village for his several counter scenes, turned out to be too expensive. As in $4,000 or more. "So Sally decided to ask the Just-Pik't guy who the nice coffee shop owners were," Mr. Walsh recalled, referring to a fruit-juice distributor. "And he came up with Eisenberg's, at Fifth and 22d."
There were many more compromises. Penn Station said they couldn't film there. But Grand Central Terminal said they could. The Cloisters wanted $5,000 in insurance; they were replaced by Trinity Church, which wanted only about $700. St. Mark's Church on East 10th Street originally figured in the script, but the church said they could not film in front of its facade. The scene ended up taking place in the Miracle Garden on East Third Street. Ms. Roy and Mr. Nelson's building in the East Village appears a couple of times in the film.
People scoured their apartments for props, like suitcases, alarm clocks, wooden spoons. A few companies donated products in return for getting them on screen: Lee Jeans, Budweiser, the Sealed Air Corporation (with bubble wrap that appears as part of a contemporary sculpture). When Mr. Walsh wanted to shoot Ed's first New York City cab ride and show the meter clicking along at an extraordinary rate, Ms. Roywent to a taxi garage on 11th Avenue, near the sound stage, where the mechanics were perhaps too willing to help.
"I went in and said, 'We need to have a meter go really fast,' " she recalled. "And they said: 'No problem. We can make it do whatever you want.' "
Some things were eerily serendipitous. They found a band already named Ed's Redeeming Qualities to play themselves in the movie. When they went to the sound stage, Raw Space, on West 42d Street, they discovered an entire tenement set abandoned by the last film that had been in there. Film itself, one of the highest costs in any project this size, turned out to be available as "short ends," left over from the movie "Smoke." Each "end" was less than 10 minutes' worth of film, but there were 120,000 feet of them.
"They sold it to us for 20 cents on the dollar," Mr. Walsh says, his eyes lighting up at the memory. What was left over, he added, Ms. Roy resold to another movie. For more than 20 cents on the dollar.
Now they were ready to make the movie.
 
The Tension Mounts: Will People Quit?
In October 1994, they began their four-week shoot, an intense period of 16-hour days that took them from Morristown, N.J. (the closest reasonable substitute for small-town Wisconsin, whence Ed came) to the chilly waters of the Hudson (for its view of the railroad tracks) to the meat counter at Balducci's, where the camera lingers on a $109-a-pound slab of Kobe beef.
Tensions were high. They were up against money, and not long on time. Ms. Roy and Mr. Walsh lost a lot of sleep, principally over the question of whether 45 people working for nothing would stick with the project.
"It's not that it's O.K. not to get paid," says Cindy Kaplan, who plays a translator in an early scene, though she would have liked to play Lee, Ed's romantic interest. "It's also about how you're treated when you're not getting paid. It's sort of a leap of faith you make: I know this is a good project, I know these are good people, I know it's worth my time."
The producer, meanwhile, wasn't always so confident. "You always held your breath to see who was coming back," Ms. Roy said.
They spent two days at Eisenberg's Sandwich Shop, which is a classic-looking place that doesn't actually serve blintzes, as it does in the movie. The owner, Steve Oh, insists he has the best tuna salad and chocolate egg creams in town. He has trouble remembering the crew from "Ed's Next Move," even though they paid him $2,000 to use the shop. "They make a lot of movies here," Mr. Oh confessed."The only one I can remember clearly was 'Lover Man.' "
They seem to have made more of an impression at Balducci's, where they filmed without charge. "They were very nice," said Julio Collado, a butcher. "We did it in three takes. They asked for some chicken breasts, told me to give them to the actor. They told me to be very natural."
Halfway through, the production manager quit. Mr. Walsh said she had not got along with one of the other crew members. When she left, she took her live-in boyfriend with her, who happened to be the location manager -- another important person. That meant Sharon Fitzpatrick, who had answered a help-wanted ad on an N.Y.U. bulletin board to become the movie's location assistant, moved up.
There was at least one other person who might have exited, but for the money situation. "I wish I could have fired him," Ms. Roy said, refusing to identify him, "but I couldn't, because I couldn't find anyone else to work for free."
Takes were not shot over and over in search of perfection because of the limits on money and time.
"We were all sensitive to the fact that these were John's credit cards, so let's be as clean as we can be," Mr. Carroll said. "He didn't necessarily say it. It just got out."
The organization was memorable to at least one other actor. "They were on time for everything," says Lisa Harris, who has a small role. "When you work on an independent film and you're non-SAG and everything goes smoothly, it's a real treat."
Outside the set, the city went on as usual. People's cars were towed. One assistant's, in particular, Mr. Walsh said. "He was from a Slavic country, and he didn't quite know what a fire hydrant looked like," he said.
Another time, Ms. Roy remembers, a man cutting tiles with a screeching saw was disturbing filming on West 76th Street, which is no longer in the movie. An assistant walked across his tile project to ask him to turn off the machine. The man erupted.
"So I had to take four or five irate calls from that guy," she says.
And there was the day they decided to film on a basketball court on Horatio Street. A block away was the filming of "City Hall," with about 100 teamsters, Ms. Roy says. "One came up and started asking who's your producer, what's your budget," she said. "When he heard it was $85,000, he just said, 'Good luck to yez.' "
The crew got a daily hot lunch and plenty of coffee and doughnuts during this time. Mr. Walsh later called it the best time he ever had. Ms. Roy said she lost 15 pounds attending to various urgent issues.
"They came to me with everything, like there's no ice in the cooler, or the location is throwing us out," she said. "John Walsh lived in a bell jar. Our job was to keep all the problems away from him so he could get this movie shot."
Once that was done, the movie moved into a complicated and costly process known as post-production, in which everything from film editing to sound effects takes place in hushed, darkened studios that charge by the hour. A further $115,000 was spent on this, getting the film in shape to submit to festivals. Before it went to theaters, it would require an additional $150,000 in polishing, including an original soundtrack by Benny Golson, a legendary jazzman. Mr. Walsh and Ms. Roy raised $95,000 more from investors, people they knew who had seen the movie and liked it, and kicked in $10,000 or so. They also worked on other jobs, putting their money back into the film.
As they were getting ready to submit their creation to the Sundance Film Festival, the two film makers decided "More Bad Times" was not a title that would draw audiences like a magnet. So they sat around trying to think of something better.
"That was the hardest thing John and I had to do," Ms. Roy said. Their candidates ranged from "Ed's Redeeming Qualities" (the band said no) to "Ed's New Life" to, in a moment of panic, "Cheese Boy in the Big City." Finally came "Ed's Next Move."
 
Ed's Epilogue: What the Future Holds
The film was screened at the Independent Feature Project's film market at the Angelika last fall. One of the Sundance organizers saw the last 20 minutes, Mr. Walsh said, and invited them to show it there.
There Orion Classics bought the rights for American distribution, and now Mr. Walsh's company, Ed's Films Inc., is selling the foreign rights, one country at a time. He's also working on another script.
"Ed's Next Move" is playing in one or two theaters in the city, after mixed reviews. Its creators, Mr. Walsh said, owe about $990,000 in deferred wages to their crew and $35,000 in credit card interest, which is to be paid from income from ticket sales, new foreign rights, video sales and other sources.
Then, of course, there are other movies to make, with or without a big budget.
"Ultimately, if people think you care about them and care about what you're doing, they will work very hard for you," Ms. Roy said. "It's worked out pretty well."

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Walsh, the director of "Ed's Next Move," at Eisenberg's Sandwich Shop. He could not pay his cast and crew. Would they desert him? (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. 1); On location in Hell's Kitchen. And Sally Roy, producer, meets Robert Redford at the Sundance Film Festival; John Walsh, to right of camera, directing a scene on 13th Street near Third Avenue. Photographs by Robin Langsdorf/Orion Pictures) (pg. 13)
 
Chart/Map: "Filming 'Ed's Next Movie' "
 Filming in Manhattan involves constant negotiating and willingess to settle for second best.
 
THE PICKUP SCENE
 THEY WANTED -- The Cloisters, for a scene in which Eddie tries to meet interesting museum-going girls and instead tumbles down a flight of stairs.
 THEY GOT -- Trinity Church, after the Cloisters said they would need $5,000 in additional insurance. Trinity cost only $750.
 
THE COFFEE SHOP
 THEY WANTED -- A vintage blintz-serving East Village coffee shop, like the Kiev or the Odessa, but they all wanted to be paid $4,000.
 THEY GOT -- Eisenberg's Sandwich Shop, a Korean-owned establishment at 22d and Fifth, which cost $2,000 for two days.
 
THE HEARTFELT TALK
 THEY WANTED -- St. Mark's Church, on Second Avenue at Tenth Street, for the movie's penultimate scene featuring Ed and his girlfriend having a heartfelt talk.
 THEY GOT -- The Miracle Garden, on Third Street between Avenues B and C, for $200 after St. Mark's said forgetaboutit.
 
THE LAB SCENE
 THEY WANTED -- The genetics lab at Columbia University, which is full of interesting technology.
 THEY GOT -- The New York City Quality Assurance Lab, now closed, which charged $1,000, after Columbia refused to give them access.
 
THE SHOPPING SCENE
 THEY WANTED -- Balducci's, for a scene for provisions with which to impress his date.
 THEY GOT -- Balducci's, at no charge. (pg. 1)
 
"BREAKING IT DOWN: Inside a Shoestring Budget"
 Here's the breakdown of spending on "Ed's Next Move."
 
FILMING BUDGET: $93,000.
Includes:
Art: $7,700.
Camera costs: $5,700.
Casting: $2,000.
Initial picture editing: $4,200.
Film and lab work: $21,000.
Hair and makeup: $900.
Insurance: $4,000.
Interest on credit cards: $2,000.
Food: $7,500.
Location fees: $4,500.
Sound stage rental: $7,000.
Office expenses: $6,300.
Sound recording: $6,900.
Transportation: $7,300.
Wardrobe: $1,900.
Lighting: $4,700.
Misc: remainder.
POST-PRODUCTION, before the Sundance Film Festival: $115,000.
(Includes film editing, sound editing, foley artist, studio rental, equipment rental, legal fees)
ADDITIONAL Post-Production, after Sundance: $165,000.
(Includes studio rental, original score, insurance, sound editing)
DEFERRED PAYMENTS: $990,000 to director, producer, cast and crew, to be paid if profits are made.
REMAINING CREDIT CARD INTEREST: $32,000-$35,000
 
(Source: John Walsh) (pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TITLE: ED'S NEXT MOVE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); UKRAINE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); UTAH, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ORION PICTURES COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORION PICTURES COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); UKRAINE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); UTAH, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; FINANCES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FILM SCHOOLS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); FESTIVALS (77%); VISUAL ARTS (73%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (68%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (65%); MAYORS (64%); 

PERSON: WALSH, JOHN (FILM MAKER); ROY, SALLY; HAYS, CONSTANCE L JOHN C WALSH (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



642 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 10; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: DOWNTOWN BROOKLYN -- AT A GLANCE;
Dowtown Brooklyn: The Promise and the Peril

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

 BODY:
Since the construction of the Pierrepont Plaza office tower near the foot of the Brooklyn Bridge in 1989, Downtown Brooklyn has witnessed an infusion of millions of dollars in public funds. Its goal: to lure back large-scale private investment. In 1990, the 16-acre giant known as Metrotech opened its doors. Now, aided by more than $50 million in city subsidies, construction is under way on the Renaissance Plaza hotel and office complex on Adams Street. A major face lifting has been proposed for the Federal courthouse nearby. On Nov. 7, the Atlantic Center mall is to open. Next door, the Brooklyn Academy of Music plans to unveil a bookstore and cafe next year, followed by the construction of a cinema. 
 The impact of this commercial development is subject to debate. Some economists, planners and Brooklyn-watchers applaud the emergence of new stores, office buildings and a hotel as a source of potential jobs and tax revenues. But others worry that the upgrading of Downtown Brooklyn will sap jobs and income from neighboring communities, and cause problems for nearby small-business owners. SOMINI SENGUPTA

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos:
 
PROFESSOR RON SHIFFMAN,
Former City Planning Commissioner and director of the Pratt Center for Community and Environmental Development.
One issue is job creation. The other issue that's critically important is the environmental impact: whether we are beginning to destroy the urban quality of Downtown Brooklyn, whether we are turning it from a pedestrian-oriented area into what is really a shopping center, an automobile-oriented facility. Atlantic Center is really the beginning of that.
 
S. ERIC BLACKWELL,
Executive director, Fort Greene Community Action Network.
I don't think the consumers that live in Fort Greene would go as easily to Atlantic Center with a Myrtle Avenue working. They're going to go to Atlantic Center. Atlantic Center offers middle-end shopping. Fulton Mall offers a low-end shopping alternative.
I think Atlantic Center is a good thing. When you look at other models in terms of stimulating urban economic growth and job development, you can't point to much that's better than retail.
 
ROBERT FITCH,
Author, "The Assassination of New York" (Verso, 1993) and professor of metropolitan studies at New York University.
What you have in Brooklyn is a dying city. I think we have to recognize the magnitude of the disaster, which is a plan to create a Brooklyn center with office buildings, luxury residences and government structures that would serve as the engine of growth. And we're going to get rid of poor people and factories in order to do that. They've achieved the latter but not the former. It has failed spectacularly in Brooklyn.
 
DEBORAH C. WRIGHT,
Executive director, Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone and former Commissioner of the City Department of Housing Preservation and Development.
Why shouldn't Brooklyn have quality amenities that Manhattan has? There isn't one quality hotel in Brooklyn. My father is a minister and he has ministers fly in from all over the country to speak at his church. Why is it that he has to put them up at the Hilton in Manhattan? The explicit premise of the empowerment zone is that you are trying to be a catalyst for the rebirth of both the geographic area as well as the people.
 
RODERICK B. MITCHELL,
President, Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation, a nonprofit group that owns a majority stake in a Pathmark supermarket on Fulton Street.
You can never knock development from the standpoint of building up the borough. The question is, exactly how great of a multiplier effect do these developments have in terms of creating jobs and meaningful jobs for people who live in the surrounding neighborhoods and to what extent will small businesses be able to become suppliers to these major developments? Based upon what's happened so far, the jury is still out. My guess is that it's been very minimal.
 
HARVEY LICHTENSTEIN,
President, Brooklyn Academy of Music.
Someone once said to me: 'I want to see Martha Graham, who you're doing in Brooklyn. But she's performing in London next fall and that's easier.' What we've done to a large extent is build our artists' base and build our audience despite the difficulties in the neighborhood. Now things are turning around and this will be of enormous help to us. I think the area is important.
 
 
Chart: "Brooklyn's Work Force"
 
After a sharp decline between 1960 and 1983, total private sector jobs in Brooklyn have gradually increased.
1960 460,900
1975 381,200
1983 355,000
1995 (4th quarter only) = 383,100
 
Unemployment in Brooklyn is slightly higher than than citywide average and significantly higher than the national rate.
September, 1996 unemployment rates
Brooklyn 8.9%
Citywide 8%
Nationwide 5%

(Source: State Department of Labor)
 
 
Map of Brooklyn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN ACADEMY (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; LAND USE POLICIES OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); BOOKSTORES (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%); 

PERSON: SENGUPTA, SOMINI; SHIFFMAN, RON (PROF); BLACKWELL, S ERIC; FITCH, ROBERT; WRIGHT, DEBORAH C; MITCHELL, RODERICK B; LICHTENSTEIN, HARVEY

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



643 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 34; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 250 words

HEADLINE: Gauging the Rubin Effect

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "An Old Wall Street Pro's Voice in the Campaign" (Sept. 22): 
 Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin gives true meaning to the adage that the harder you work the luckier you get. I met Mr. Rubin almost 20 years ago when he was at Goldman, Sachs and I was a junior member of the risk arbitrage desk at a rival firm, Salomon Brothers. I always admired his style and his understatement. He is the perfect balance in the Clinton Administration because of his insights gained on the firing lines of Wall Street trading desks.
Mr. Rubin might be thinking "I told you so" when it comes to the deficit-reduction plan and its benefit for the bond market, or when it comes to the successful brinkmanship with the Republican Congress about the full faith and credit of Treasury debt, but you won't hear him say it.
It galls me that the Republican business community constantly complains about President Clinton's economic policies when it is readily apparent that the markets are at record highs, inflation is in check, jobs have been created and the dollar is steady.
No one disputes the desire for tax cuts, but realism dictates that every cut must be paid for. Thank you, Mr. Rubin, for making Democratic policy credible to business. On inauguration day 1997, you should gloat, but knowing you, you'll be reading memos privately. I guess that's how you stay luckier than most.
 
STEVEN A. LUDSIN
Sagaponack, L.I., Sept. 22
 
The writer is a lawyer and investment adviser.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); RISK ARBITRAGE (71%); BOND MARKETS (70%); TAX LAW (68%); JOB CREATION (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (52%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (50%); 

PERSON: RUBIN, ROBERT E (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



644 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 34; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: Gauging the Rubin Effect

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your article on Mr. Rubin noted the Clinton Administration proposal that gains on sales of principal residences be excused from taxation. But restricting this type of concession to residences reflects a populist approach in an election year. 
 All very long-term gains should be taxed at a very low capital gains rate. "Ten for Ten" would be a good policy, which would mean a 10 percent tax on all holdings of more than 10 years instead of the current 28 percent. If the price of an asset doubled in 15 years and a 28 percent tax was paid on the gain, there can be an economic loss when taking inflation into consideration.
This is a reason for excusing the gain on certain home sales, but the same theory should apply to any other holdings, like the family farm, businesses or other forms of investment. And why should a property held for 30 years be taxed the same as a property held for one year and a day?
If very long-term holdings were taxed at a lower capital gains rate, it would cause the unfreezing of billions of dollars in assets that are now being held because of the 28 percent tax rate. This would create mobility of capital for reinvestment and therefore benefit the economy. Furthermore, the Government would be collecting taxes it is not now collecting because property owners have been reluctant to sell and pay 28 percent of the gain in taxes.
 
JESSE H. OPPENHEIMER
San Antonio, Sept. 24
 
The writer is partner in the law firm of Oppenheimer, Blend, Harrison & Tate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMER BLEND HARRISON & TATE INC (82%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 REAL ESTATE (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); WRITERS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (71%); FAMILY FARMS (71%); LAWYERS (63%); 

PERSON: RUBIN, ROBERT E (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



645 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: Word For Word/Fraud in Your Mailbox;
Postage To-Do: The Flim-Flams Brought by the Mailman

BYLINE: By TOM KUNTZ 

 BODY:
SO far this year, the United States Postal Inspection Service has received well over 400,000 complaints about scams in the mail. Last week it released the "five biggest lies told to consumers," a list of the most common ploys used by con artists to fleece the unsuspecting via the mail. Here are excerpts from typical letters. TOM KUNTZ
 
Lie No. 1: You're a "guaranteed winner"!
And you've been sent a cheesy, diploma-like certificate to prove it. When a recipient calls the number provided, he is asked to contribute to a fake charity, pay an exorbitant "processing fee" or buy useless "vitamins," a cheap home-security system or a water purifier. The postal service blotted out recipients' names and addresses, so they are made up here:

Certificate of Guarantee
CONGRATULATIONS
JOE SCHMOE
If you are JOE SCHMOE, residing at 13 Realsap Lane, Idunno, Idaho, then you have successfully completed the first two stages of our National Promotion and you have been selected as a:
GRAND NATIONAL FINALIST AND GUARANTEED AWARD RECIPIENT
You are ABSOLUTELY GUARANTEED to receive ONE of the six fabulous awards listed below simply for calling in your Control Number . . . NOW!!
JOE SCHMOE, YOUR AWARDS ARE:
1. A NEW CADILLAC COUPE DE VILLE!!
2. $5,000.00 IN CASH!!
3. HIS OR HERS GENUINE DIAMOND WATCH!!
4. A SONY(R) VIDEO CAMCORDER!!
5. A HAWAIIAN VACATION!!
6. A 46" SONY(R) WIDE SCREEN TV!!

CALL WITHIN 72 HOURS TO CLAIM YOUR AWARD OR IT MAY PASS TO AN ALTERNATE RECIPIENT.
 
Lie No. 2: This chain letter is legal!
Just about everyone gets a chain letter eventually. But if you pay for copying and mailing out additional letters as instructed, you wind up deep in the hole. Also, as the postal service notes, any chain letter that asks for money is illegal when sent through the mail. But in one such letter, legal eagle "Phillip A. Brown" begs to differ:
Dear Friend:
As an attorney at law, I am doing very well in my own Criminal Law practice. I am not revealing my address or phone number for a very good and simple reason: neither I nor my staff would have the time to answer all the calls and questions that would come in from people all over the country. I would not be able to give my clients my fullest attention to their problems, which must come first. . . .
THIS IS NOT A CHAIN LETTER, but a legal, money-making opportunity. Basically this is what we do: As with all multi-level businesses, we build our business by recruiting new partners and selling our products . . . Each $5.00 order you will receive will have a self-addressed stamped envelope in it! . . . This is the GREATEST multi-level mail order marketing anywhere!
1. Order all four reports listed and numbered on Page 5. Do this by ordering the report from each of the four names listed. For each report send $5.00 Cash and a self-addressed stamped envelope (business size #10) to the person listed and request that specific report . . .
2. Replace the name and address under REPORT #1 with yours, moving the one that was there down to REPORT #2. Move the name and address under REPORT #2 to REPORT #3. Move the name and address listed under REPORT #3 to REPORT #4. The name and address that was under REPORT #4 is dropped off the list and [he] is no doubt on the way to the bank. . . .
3. Take this entire packet, including the corrected names list, to your "quick print" shop and have as many copies of each made as you can initially afford to print. You can always print more later. (The more copies the bigger the discount.)
4. Send a copy of the entire package (it is all important) to everyone whose name and address you can get your hands on. . . . You'll find that a good name list [an additional expense] will make you more money than you could ever imagine. IT'S A GREAT INVESTMENT!

Lie No. 3: Stuff envelopes at home and make big money!
Some envelope-stuffing scams ask victims to send money for a "plan." The plan: Send out letters asking others to send you money for a plan. Other schemes are more transparent:
OUR SYSTEM OF MAKING MONEY IS VERY EASY TO OPERATE.
For as long as you wish to participate, by following our instructions you will receive pre-addressed envelopes with postage stamps already affixed. As you can see, the biggest part of your work will be securing envelopes, stuffing them with circulars and sending them back for payment. . . .
WHY DO YOU GLADLY GET SUCH A HIGH AMOUNT AS $3.00 PER ENVELOPE? Answer. The reason is to more than cover your small expense involved in receiving the envelopes, plus leave you with a large profit. . . . Since you will make good money through your efforts, you are glad to get $3.00 per envelope and see that you earn good profits from the comforts of home. . . .
IN ORDER TO GET YOU STARTED IMMEDIATELY, we must require a one-time payment of only $20.00. This covers our expense in showing you what to do. . . . In as much as we would like to send you our program without the small charge of $20.00, we must protect ourselves from those few who are not serious. . . .
Lie No. 4: Nigerian riches await!
Officials say businessmen and others continue to be enticed by the lure of a windfall from Nigeria, paying "bribes" or "good-faith money," or even winding up abducted for ransom. Scams begin with a syntactically intriguing letter:
Dear Sir,
CONFIDENTIAL
I have the pleasure to write you this letter which I am sure you will receive with great delight though with little surprise as we have not met in person before.
Without mincing words, I am the Chief Auditor with the NIGERIAN NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION and I got your address of contact from a Nigerian Merchant, who does business in your country. Considering your position and personality also with regards to your country of residence, I was moved to transact this life opportunity business with you.
The business is that I, in collaboration with my colleagues with the Central Bank of Nigeria and the Federal Ministry of Finance have after several meetings held, have decided to syphone [sic] some money totaling US$45.5M, U.S. Dollars (Forty Five Million, Five Hundred Thousand, United States Dollars) into a reliable foreign account after which we shall come over to the country and share the fund, hence my contacting you for your assistance to make this dream a reality. As Auditors, we came about this money (US$45.5M U.S. Dollars) when auditing the account of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation during the Civil Administration and found out that this money cannot be claimed as the politician who formed these contractors with their foreign counterparts are no longer in power as the Civilian Government was not able to pay these debts then because of the economic predicament that was prevailing before the Military took over power. . . .
We want to use your account and company name to present as the original owner of this fund and syphone the money into your account for safe-keeping pending our arrival for the sharing.
All you have to do immediately on receipt of this letter is to send the following materials. . . .
1. 3 copies of your company's letter headed papers (blank, signed and stamped by you).
2. 3 copies of your company's invoices (blank, signed and stamped by you).
3. Your bank account where you want this money to be paid into including the bank particulars.
4. Your private telephone, fax and telex numbers for easy communication. . . .
NOTE: We have held several meetings on this behalf and the sharing ration of this money was agreed to be:
1. 35% for you for your assistance.
2. 60% for us the Nigerian Party.
3. 5% for miscellaneous expenses. . . .
I am assuring you of 100% safety in this transaction as it involve highly placed civil servants.

Lie No. 5: You're going on a fabulous vacation!
All you have to do is pay a membership fee or handling charge, the offers typically claim:
JOE SCHMOE . . . PACK YOUR BAGS!
This certifies that you will receive a World Class Cancun/Florida/Caribbean Vacation Package offer for you and your family including all accommodations!
This certifies that JOE SCHMOE, residing at 13 Realsap Lane, Idunno, Idaho, is the registered holder of this Certificate of Authorization. We are delighted to advise you via FIRST CLASS MAIL, that . . . in celebration of our National Promotion, you will receive our Spectacular TROPICAL VACATION offer for you and your family! A TOLL FREE HOTLINE has been established for your immediate confirmation!
* Enjoy 5 Days/4 Nights in beautiful hotel accommodations in Cancun, Mexico!
* Delight in 4 Days/3 Nights additional accommodations in Magical Orlando, Florida, home of Magical Walt Disney World(R), Epcot Center(R), and MGM Studios Florida(R)!
* Complimentary rental car with unlimited mileage while in Florida!
But inspectors say such trips turn into horrors of bad hotels, cancellations or undisclosed costs like airfare -- making you wish you'd stayed home, though maybe not stuffing envelopes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: POSTAL SERVICE POSTAL INSPECTION SERVICE (84%); POSTAL INSPECTION SERVICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: POSTAL SERVICE POSTAL INSPECTION SERVICE (84%); POSTAL INSPECTION SERVICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IDAHO, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; POSTAL SERVICE; MAIL FRAUDS; CONSUMER PROTECTION MAIL FRAUD (90%); POSTAL SERVICE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HOME SECURITY (69%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (69%); LEGAL SERVICES (68%); LAWYERS (65%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (64%); CRIMINAL LAW (60%); 

PERSON: KUNTZ, TOM JOE SCHMOE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



646 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Why Bob Dole Can't Be Reagan

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN; Samuel G. Freedman is the author of "The Inheritance: How Three Families and America Moved from Roosevelt to Reagan and Beyond."

 BODY:
TWO summers ago, early in his latest quest for the Presidency, Bob Dole appeared before a gathering of the Republican National Committee. "I'm willing to be another Ronald Reagan," he offered, "if that's what you want." Of the hundreds of thousands of words the candidate has uttered since then, few pack nearly as much irony.
The conventional understanding of Mr. Dole's promise that day was that he was willing to play down his profile as a compromiser and a budget balancer in the Senate in favor of a more Reaganesque image. With his attacks on Hollywood films as immoral, he suddenly presented himself as a partisan in culture wars waged by the right wing of his party. Then, with his selection of Jack Kemp as running mate and his endorsement of across-the-board tax cuts, Mr. Dole completed his makeover: he reversed his longstanding opposition to supply-side economics. 
 Mr. Dole's attempts at reinvention have not brought him any closer to unseating President Clinton. And it is not only because Mr. Dole faces a clever incumbent astride a healthy economy. Mr. Dole is a victim of his own biography. His past in Russell, Kan., sets him apart from the demographic forces that brought conservative Republicans to power in the White House and eventually in Congress during the last 25 years. Far from being an heir to the Reagan revolution, he is the inconvenient remnant of an earlier dynasty.
In the script for a Dole victory, Russell was supposed to have symbolized the civic and moral values threatened by the baby-boomer profligacy of Bill Clinton. But there is another way to view Russell: as a a town that is ossifying while all around it America changes.
In places like Russell, Republican identity was more a matter of habit than ideology. But just as Mr. Dole was entering national politics in the early 1960's on the strength of his war record, the G.O.P. was recasting itself as a conservative coalition based in the suburbs of the South and West.
Ronald Reagan, more than anyone, added the final, decisive element to the mix of new conservatives -- those ethnic Catholics in the urban Northeast and industrial Middle West who came to be called Reagan Democrats. Mr. Reagan took a majority of the Catholic vote in both 1980 and 1984, as did George Bush in 1988 and Republican Congressional candidates in 1994. Several polls this fall put Mr. Dole at least 20 points behind Mr. Clinton with Catholic voters. And the reasons may be personal as well as political.
Mr. Reagan touched the collective memory of many Democrats because he embodied their experience. The connection went deeper than quoting Franklin D. Roosevelt or Harry S. Truman. As Mr. Reagan often reminded voters, he began his own political career as a New Deal Democrat and a trade unionist. In the late 1940's, he even traveled the nation on behalf of Americans for Democratic Action, the vanguard of the anti-Communist left.
Such credentials allowed Mr. Reagan to hallow the Democratic past while reviling the Democratic present. Though he grew rich as a corporate spokesman and called organized labor a special interest, he could appeal to much of the rank and file. The 1980 Reagan campaign penetrated labor strongholds from Flint to Bayonne and deluged union homes with a mailing touting Mr. Reagan's tenure as a union president. "He led the Screen Actors Guild in its first strike," it read, "and he won it!"
Mr. Reagan's victories realigned the Republican Party as well as the nation. In his wake, the prototypical Republican candidate in urban states became an ethnic one, usually Catholic. From Attorney General Dan Lundgren in California to Gov. Tom Ridge in Pennsylvania, many of the party's rising stars fit the mold. When George E. Pataki upset Mario M. Cuomo to become New York's Governor two years ago, his slate consisted of three Catholics and a Jew, with immigrant roots ranging from Hungary to Ireland.

 
 
Casting Aspersions
 This was not lost on Mr. Dole. In selecting a running mate, he considered three popular Catholic governors from the Rust Belt -- John Engler of Michigan, Tommy Thompson of Wisconsin and George Voinovich of Ohio -- before deciding upon Jack Kemp, who calls himself a born-again Christian. Mr. Kemp, a product of Southern California and later a Congressman from blue-collar, suburban Buffalo, himself typified the party's geographical tilt.
But now Mr. Dole's own party is distancing itself from him. Republican candidates for the House, assuming a Clinton victory, are running on a platform of denying the President a Democratic majority in Congress. Mr. Thompson has assailed the Dole campaign (an attack for which he apologized), while Mr. Voinovich has reportedly stopped returning its phone calls.
One might think of the discord as the sound of the generation gap. Or, perhaps, it is the voice of an exasperated director telling an actor he is all wrong for the part.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); BABY BOOMERS (69%); TAX LAW (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); RELIGION (60%); FILM (55%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: FREEDMAN, SAMUEL G; DOLE, BOB; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (93%); BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996



647 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 5; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Charles Barrett, Architect, 40

 BODY:
Charles Barrett, an architect who was highly regarded as an architectural draftsman, died on Oct. 19 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami. He was 40 and lived in Miami Beach.
The cause was complications from a liver illness, his family said. 
 Mr. Barrett was closely associated with the town planning office of Duany & Plater-Zyberk, Miami architects, although most recently he was in his own practice. He designed the Bayshore Villas in the Coconut Grove section of Miami, among other projects. His drawings were exhibited at many museums and galleries over the years and were published in several books, including "Building Classical," "The New Urbanism" and "Modern Classicisim."
Mr. Barrett was a graduate of California State and Yale Universities and worked for Robert A. M. Stern in New York and Allan Greenberg in Washington before moving to Miami. He was also a visiting lecturer at the University of Miami School of Architecture.
He is survived by his parents, William and Joyce Barrett, and a brother, Randall G., all of Fresno, Calif.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MIAMI SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MIAMI SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); DRAFTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: BARRETT, CHARLES CHARLES BARRETT (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996



648 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Washington Is Producing Apple Crop In Quantity

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: ROYAL CITY, Wash.

 BODY:
Washington is harvesting what is likely to be the state's largest apple crop, using advanced technology and economies of scale that may make the family-run orchard a thing of the past here as well as in other apple-growing regions in New York and Michigan.
The Columbia River Basin, in the relatively isolated central part of the state, is being converted from wheat and row-crop agriculture to more lucrative crops like apples by corporate farmers that are reaping increased profits from huge orchards. 
 Dozens of young orchards 250 acres and larger have been planted by large fruit packers since the early 1990's. In some areas of the basin, orchards have been planted 1,000 acres at a time. The orchards can grow apples, especially the premier Red Delicious, better and cheaper than orchards in other areas of the state, certainly better than other areas of the country, because of the dry pest-free climate, rich volcanic soils and abundant water from the Grand Coulee Dam.
Washington already produces more than half of the nation's apples. The United States Apple Association estimates that the state will produce 94 million 42-pound boxes of freshly packed apples in the current harvest, which runs from late August to early November. In 1994, the state produced 92 million boxes. New York, the No. 2 apple state, is expected to produce 26 million boxes.
"Efficiency is the key," said Karen Maib, an extension agent, who is the local adviser to tree-fruit growers and who works for Washington State University. "It comes through good management and economies of scale."
Orchards make up 50,000 acres of the basin, Ms. Maib said. Nearly all the orchards are planted to the latest Red Delicious strains or to varieties like Fuji, Braeburn and Gala.
Experts say it is difficult to gauge how much fruit is produced, because nearly all of it is sent to other regions for packing or processing. About half the 350 orchards in the north basin have absentee owners. Orchards stretch across the rolling desert landscape in long rows of small uniform trees, many grown on wire trellises. Within a few years of planting, the orchards can yield more than mature orchards elsewhere.
Absentee corporate owners send in migrant crews from the West and Mexico to train, thin, pick and prune the trees with assembly-line efficiency. The new orchards are in stark contrast to the generations-old 40-acre family-owned orchards that prevail in other regions of the state and the nation.
The sweet aroma of fresh apples smashed beneath the fat wheels of a tractor still blend with the foul smell of diesel at harvest time. But much else has changed. The new orchards are rarely run by an owner-operator in pinstriped overalls who may serve on the local school board. Instead, they are controlled by a board of directors, firms of lawyers and accountants, corporate managers and field agents.
"Average isn't good enough," said Brooke Peterson, a former banker and extension agent who oversees several large orchards here. He defines an average grower as one who is going broke.
A good grower, Mr. Peterson said, can produce 50 to 60 bins an acre, well above the state average of 35 bins an acre. Each bin has about 1,000 pounds of apples.
"If he can't do that," he added, "he's in trouble. We're competing against ourselves and our neighbors. Anybody in Washington can beat out everybody in New York or Michigan. That's almost a given. People in this state have a bullish attitude."
Decisions are made with the help of computers, satellite dishes and Internet communications that connect shippers with global markets.
Field agents like Mr. Peterson live in their pickup trucks at harvest time, which continues into November with new late varieties like the Fuji. Washington is expected to produce more than five million boxes of that sweet dessert apple this year. Just a few years ago the state had none.
Even third-generation growers like Todd Cowan have rushed to plant factory-style orchards. Mr. Cowan said he could grow apples at a cost of $2.25 a box, compared with $4 to $5 a box in the old orchard that surrounds his home 70 miles away.
Blue Bird, the cooperative that Mr. Peterson works for and that Mr. Cowan owns with 300 other people, is one of the many small players in the basin, compared with giants like Stemilt Growers, Dovex, Zirkle Fruit, Borton and Sons, Washington Fruit and Produce and the Evans Fruit Company, all of which have thousands of newly planted acres.
The orchards are beginning to produce their crops. The effects that they will have on small family orchards in other regions will become clear in a few years.
"There isn't an apple-growing region in the world that isn't affected by how things are done here," Ms. Maib said. "This is a showplace for a lot of people. They come here to see how it's done." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA RIVER CARBONATES (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; WASHINGTON (STATE); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); LANSING, MI, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: APPLES; PRODUCTION APPLE ORCHARDS (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (89%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (78%); FAMILY (78%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); FARM MANAGEMENT SERVICES (77%); RIVERS (72%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (72%); FACTORY FARMS (71%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (70%); 

PERSON: SIR GEORGE YOUNG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996



649 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1670 words

HEADLINE: A One-Armed Bandit Makes a House Calls;
Virtual Casino Is Coming, but Regulation Is Still a Big Question

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 27

 BODY:
There are few patches of legal turf the states guard more fiercely than gambling, which is why it seemed strange this summer when the National Association of Attorneys General urged the Federal Government to seize control of wagering on the Internet -- even though hardly anyone was doing it.
Even more bizarre was that the recommendation, including an alarming proposal for arresting gamblers from in front of their computers, was turned down by the Justice Department. 
 "The department does not agree that Federal law should be amended so broadly as to cover the first-time bettor who loses $5, particularly when Internet gaming is expected to mushroom and Federal resources are shrinking," John C. Keeney, an official in the criminal division at the Justice Department, wrote the states.
The episode highlighted the growing anxiety and confusion over one of the least developed, but potentially most vexing areas of Internet business -- gambling. The reach of the World Wide Web is erasing not only borders but also the ability of the authorities to control wagering (not to mention their ability to tax it). And gambling over computer networks is still new enough that it remains unclear exactly what is legal and what is not.
"We built it to be Russian-proof, but it turned out to be regulator proof," said Craig I. Fields, the former head of the Pentagon agency that helped create the Internet during the cold war, and who is now vice chairman of Alliance Gaming, a Las Vegas concern developing on-line gambling.
In principal, gambling by computer sounds promising, placing an increasingly popular habit, which can quickly become a compulsion for some individuals, within just about anyone's reach. Indeed, nearly every worker in the country with a personal computer and a few minutes to spare will soon be able to slip in some blackjack, poker, slots or baccarat for money at almost completely unregulated, virtual casinos.
To give some notion of the potential, Americans wagered $550 billion last year at traditional operations, from lotteries and horse races to bingo and casinos, and gambling companies had revenues of $44.4 billion. The Internet operators need to take only a fraction of that business to produce explosive growth -- or explosive scams.
"In my view, gambling is the fastest way to destroy the credibility of the Internet system," said John Kindt, an economics professor at the University of Illinois at Champaign and a gambling critic. "If you lose, you'll lose, and if you win, you could lose because there's no way to collect from these offshore operations."
He added that with personal computers now ubiquitous the on-line casinos could prove a devastating temptation for the growing numbers of compulsive gamblers. "People will be trapped," Mr. Kindt said. "They won't be able to get away from it."
All that is driving some law enforcement officials crazy, especially since the business, though made up of a tiny number of marginal companies operating from offshore havens like Antigua, Belize and Monaco, is on the cusp of a major expansion. A showdown, in short, is looming in the one area of the Internet that may well produce billions of dollars of commerce in just a couple of years.
Minnesota has sued Granite Gate Resorts, a company in Las Vegas, Nev., that is preparing to offer a sports betting on-line service called Wager Net, as a test case. The state contends it is a consumer fraud because the service says, improperly, it is legal. The state court hearing the suit has yet to rule on whether the state has jurisdiction.
California is attacking by threatening the telephone companies with prosecution if they do not cut off service to Internet gambling concerns in the state.
Several states are also insisting that they will not recognize the use of offshore sites if the companies are attracting American gamblers. "We're going to take an aggressive stand on this, and we'll interpret the law as broadly and prohibitively as we can, and there will be no havens," said Tom Gede, a special assistant to the Attorney General of California.
Senator Jon Kyl, an Arizona Republican, offered a bill earlier this year that would have made all Internet gambling explicitly illegal. Although it was killed in committee, he has insisted he will offer it again. A National Gaming Commission was established by the Congress this year, and a big focus of the study it will be conducting will be on-line wagering, which could also lead to legislation.
And there is an even trickier issue, some believe.
"There's another I-word that really scares the government, Indian gambling," said I. Nelson Rose, a professor at the Whittier Law School here and a gambling law expert. "If the Indian tribes get involved in this then the way the law is written all sorts of sports betting and other kinds of on-line betting could take place from Indian lands in an unregulated fashion."
That has left many state officials worried, but unwilling to just wait for the explosion.
"The Federal Government is either going to want to get into it now, or they'll be drawn into it later," insisted Hubert Humphrey 3d, the Attorney General of Minnesota and a prime mover behind the request this summer for Federal involvement. "This is moving so fast that we have to get out in front of it."
All these worries are over a business that is, at the moment at least, underwhelming. Sue Schneider, managing editor of Rolling Good Times On-Line, an on-line magazine that tracks the industry, said that there were fewer than a half dozen virtual casinos that were taking real bets at the moment, and many of the games are frustratingly slow. There are also unresolved concerns over the security of on-line transactions and whether an unlicensed casino would maintain fair odds on the games.
In fact, the established casino companies, while watching warily, appear unfazed. "My personal view is it's not very interesting," said Stephen Bollenbach, chief executive of Hilton Hotels, the country's largest casino concern. "It's a different business than we're in."
Nevertheless, about 40 prospective operators have set up Web sites, and many offer games that, at some point in the future, could easily be transformed into gambling for real money.
Ms. Schneider said that as many as a dozen more on-line casino or bookmaking operations may open for business within the next few months.
While all the companies are seeking essentially the same thing -- to get into the lucrative gambling business without the costs of building casinos or having to pay dealers or other high-priced staff -- they are taking many different approaches because of the murky legal status of the business and the uncertainty over just who will really want to spend money this way.
Virtual Vegas is one of the more active on-line casinos and one of the most cautious. The company's formula is simple: treat Internet gambling as another type of computer game and leave the money out of it for now to avoid hassles with the police.
David Herschman, chief executive of the company, which is based in the Venice district of Los Angeles, said Virtual Vegas had already spent $3 million developing its technology and would spend another $10 million.
It has created twists on traditional games to make them more like computer games, and therefore more appealing to the people who already spend perhaps more time than they should in front of their personal computers. Virtual Vegas offers Turbo Black Jack and Assault Poker, which is like combining Doom and five card stud. Virtual Vegas will be available on Time Warner's cable on-line service.
Peter Demos Jr., president of World Wide Web Casinos, which is based in Orange County, said his company had decided to trust the idea that having an offshore computer location will keep it out of jail. World Wide Web Casinos has acquired a tiny casino on Antigua, the St. James Club. "It does provide us with a little credibility," Mr. Demos said.
He added: "We want to be a huge grind joint. We're not going to attract high rollers. We're looking for someone who will blow $20 or so in an hour and a half." World Wide Web Casino, which will offer black jack, five kinds of video poker and slots, is in testing and hopes to open around Thanksgiving.
Internet Gaming Technologies Inc., based in San Diego, is also using an offshore strategy: it has a gambling license in Ecuador.
Joseph R. Paravia, president of the company, said he was less confident in the offshore loophole, so the company will offer its games only to people outside the United States, which he insisted was technically feasible. Mr. Paravia said the company plans to pursue known gamblers, giving them computers if necessary. "We didn't want to take a propeller-head and have to teach him how to gamble," Mr. Paravia said. "We want to go after a known market."
You Bet International Inc., however is what might be called an anti-Internet Internet gambling company. The company, which will operate through the New York Racing Association, offers a horse race bookmaking service that makes only tangential use of the Internet: to register accounts and download software.
"The Internet as it exists is the wrong place for this kind of application," said Stephen A. Molnar, executive vice president of the company. "The biggest problem is political. We believe that at some point the government is going to come down on this."
You Bet, which expects to begin taking bets in February 1997, has constructed a private on-line service over which its account holders will get information and place their wagers. And it appears to be legal, since it operates within New York State parimutuel betting laws.
"It's all interesting, but most of what is being bandied about is hocus pocus at this point," said Jason Ader, an analyst with Bear, Stearns & Company. "It's a very scary situation. There's no regulation. There's tremendous potential for abuse out there and maybe a little fun until then."

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Herschman is the chief executive of Virtual Vegas, an on-line casino. The company has already spent $3 million on technology. (Marissa Roth for The New York Times) (pg. D6)
 
Chart: "E-Gambling"
 
THE GAMES
Sports pools
Bookmaking
Horse racing
Slot machines
Poker
Blackjack
Bingo
Lotteries
Keno
Craps
 
THE BETS
Play for phony money or win prizes offered by the Web site.
Register at the site and set up a cash escrow account.
Register at the site and use a credit card to make bets.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BYI (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3999 MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF ATTORNEYS GENERAL; GRANITE GATE RESORTS BALLY TECHNOLOGIES INC (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF ATTORNEYS GENERAL; GRANITE GATE RESORTS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA; UNITED STATES (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; SUITS AND LITIGATION; INDIANS, AMERICAN INTERNET & WWW (91%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); LAWYERS (90%); GAMING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CARD GAMES (89%); CASINOS (89%); POKER (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); LITIGATION (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); DEREGULATION (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); COLD WAR (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996



650 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE REPUBLICAN;
Dole Assails White House as 'Animal House' of 'Elitists'

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: ELK GROVE, Calif., Oct. 27

 BODY:
Bob Dole unleashed a stinging volley of attacks on the Clinton Administration today, describing it as a "group of elitists who have never done anything." At one point Mr. Dole called the White House an "animal house," yet he gloated that on Election Day, he would wait up to hear that California went Republican and then, as the future President, he would "drive by the White House and honk!"
Speaking from bales of hay to a crowd of Republicans at a steak-and-oyster picnic here in Elk Grove, near the state capital, the Republican Presidential nominee warned again that a rash of brewing scandals in the Administration could explode in the next four years. 
 "We have one week to set the record straight," Mr. Dole said. "One week to tell the American people, 'Watch out!' "
Contending that he was speaking only of ethical lapses since the Clintons moved into the White House, Mr. Dole said that "they fail in every test" as guardians of the public trust.
"Double-talk has a bad name because of this group, this group of elitists in the White House who've never done anything, never done anything, and now they're running the country, running the country," he said. "Now think about it. If you want leadership. If you want mature leadership, if you want honor, duty, country, integrity, vote for Bob Dole and Jack Kemp."
Referring to Craig Livingstone, the former security chief of White House personnel, who used to be a bouncer in a bar, Mr. Dole described an imagined session of Administration officials rummaging through confidential F.B.I. files.
"He sits there drinking a beer and saying, 'Let's look through Bob Dole's file today, yeah, and see what he's got going. Set 'em up boys. Have another beer. Let's look through some more F.B.I. files.'
He added: "They've turned the White House into something else, I don't now what it is. It's the animal house! It's the animal house!"
The scorching assessment followed another assault on The New York Times -- his fourth in four days -- calling the newspaper "the biggest apologist for Bill Clinton in the world."
As the campaign pace quickens and time shortens, Mr. Dole is summoning up ever-more vivid language to portray the White House in unflattering terms. In Stockton on Saturday night, he declared at a rally that it was time Americans had "a real man in the White House."
But Mr. Dole began his day in San Jose at a relatively placid display of support for legal immigrants, offering full-throated praise for them as he showcased that city's vibrant Vietnamese-American population. Outside a high school, he stood before an array of Vietnamese-American children dressed in the shimmering yellows and pinks of traditional Vietnamese dress.
But from this tableau, he aimed darts at Mr. Clinton, accusing him of failing to secure the borders from illegal immigrants, who, Mr. Dole suggested, were "violent criminals." And he promised that if he could not seal the borders as President, he would compensate California taxpayers for their $3 billion "burden" in caring for illegal immigrants.
Mr. Dole also denounced affirmative action as he offered his support for a popular initiative on California's November ballot that would erase such state efforts.
Just nine days before the election, Mr. Dole focused himself on the overriding issue of immigration here in the nation's biggest state, where he is waging a make-or-break campaign on the theory that as goes California, so will go the election.
But he also kept up his assault on Mr. Clinton's ethics, and the responsive crowd -- estimated at over 4,000 by the Secret Service -- initiated and joined in several chants. When Mr. Dole quoted the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., he began, "Our goal must be, as Martin Luther King so eloquently said, 'a color-blind country that judges all persons, not by the color of their skin' " -- and here the audience shouted along with him -- " 'but by the content of their character!' "
Reacting to several signs in the largely Vietnamese-American crowd, Mr. Dole yelled out, "Character does count!"
He quickly discovered how in tune his audience was with him when he began his speech referring to The New York Times.
"It probably comes as no great surprise that The New York Times endorsed Bill Clinton -- I know that's a shock to all of you," he said, the audience booing loudly in response.
"But even they had to apologize for his ethics. 'Why apologize? Why not send him back to Little Rock, Ark.? So when a great newspaper has to apologize, and say, 'Well, maybe he'll do better the next four years,' I don't want to take that chance."
Several listeners called out, "We can't afford it!".
At another point, Mr. Dole made a gentle reference to the "liberal media." Without prompting, many in the audience turned toward a section of cameramen and reporters and jeered with their thumbs down.
In criticizing The Times, Mr. Dole said: "And I read a very interesting editorial endorsement of Bill Clinton in The New York Times. They apologized for him. They're the biggest apologist for Bill Clinton in the world. But even in their editorial they had to say, 'Well, we don't agree with his ethical conduct. Maybe in the next four years he'll clean it up.' He's not going to clean it up! Now, when you have to apologize for your candidate, you shouldn't endorse him in the first place."
Considering his audience, and his message, Mr. Dole also skipped references he made as recently as Saturday about foreigners. For example, when his bus caravan pulled into the town of Merced, Mr. Dole said he wanted to bar noncitizens from contributing money to political campaigns in the United States. "America is for Americans," he asserted.
He also dropped his recent lament that the Clinton Administration was "rushing through" citizenship for immigrants so they could vote, presumably for Democrats. He has said the proceedings were so hurried that about 10 percent were criminals.
Today, Mr. Dole ladled on superlatives for Vietnamese-Americans.
"No people of this country, a country so rich in immigration success stories, has flourished more abundantly in the freedom offered by America," he said. "No people have ever given more back to this country in hard work, economic growth, strong families, close-knit communities and sound values."
Making it clear that he supported legal immigration, Mr. Dole went on to denounce illegal immigration.
"Thousands of Californians have been victims of violent criminals who should have been stopped at the border before they ever set foot in America in the first place," he said. "And that is the price people pay for the Federal Government's failure to secure the border."
He added: "I promise in a Dole Administration we will secure the border, and if we can't secure it, we'll make certain you're compensated for the cost it takes -- it's $2 billion in education, about a half billion dollars for incarceration, half billion dollars for medical expenses." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (93%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (93%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS; UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BEER & ALE (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ETHICS (74%); SCANDALS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); ASIAN AMERICANS (60%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SEELYE, KATHARINE Q BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996



651 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: A Suitor Woos Bayonne With a Grand Plan

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN 

DATELINE: BAYONNE, N.J., Oct. 26

 BODY:
John S. Rogers, who plans to build the world's biggest ocean liner, stood behind the lectern in the City Council chambers here and addressed the audience in measured tones.
"I was up in the World Trade Center," he said, "and I looked out across the harbor. And I saw the Promised Land." 
 The 11 members of the Bayonne Base Re-use Commission chuckled. The 70-odd Bayonne residents in the audience chuckled. Mr. Rogers chuckled.
But everyone knew that Mr. Rogers, who heads a New York company looking for a good place to dock the quarter-mile-long, 21-story-high, 6,200-passenger cruise ship of tomorrow, or perhaps the day after tomorrow, was hardly joking. Bayonne's Military Ocean Terminal, 437 acres of prime waterfront jutting into Upper New York Bay, is a hot property. And deciding what to do with it after the terminal, Bayonne's largest employer, closes in 1999 might be the most important choice this well-preserved if unspectacular city of 61,000 has ever faced.
So for three hours on Thursday, the people of Bayonne listened as Mr. Rogers and a supporting cast described the riches that would flow in if the city were the summer home of the modestly named America World City, which if it existed today would be two-and-a-half times the size of the next largest passenger ship.
Mr. Rogers also showed a video. "America World City is a liberation from old ways," a narrator said, "the first in a new generation of floating cities." Images of the ship's amenities flashed across the screen: three hotel towers, more conference space than the Waldorf-Astoria, 30 shops and restaurants, a 2,000-seat concert hall and 6 swimming pools.
Then there were the plans for the base itself, a sprawling complex of warehouses, barracks and docks. An architect's drawing showed a bustling downtown of office buildings, movie theaters, a small golf course, a sports amphitheater and -- "one of my favorites," Mr. Rogers said -- an old-fashioned carousel.
World City Corporation would redevelop the base and divide the profits with Bayonne. Thousands of jobs. Hundreds of millions in tax revenue. And all the city had to do was lease World City the entire site for a dollar a year.
Almost as impressive as the America World City were the names behind it. Knut Ulstein Kloster, the founder of Norwegian Cruise Lines, conceived of the ship and has put up $34 million toward its design. World City's board of advisers includes a former commandant of the Coast Guard and former heads of the Federal Maritime Commission and the Maritime Administration of the Transportation Department. They told the audience that the ship was technologically and economically feasible.
Mr. Rogers said that as an American-made ship, the World City would be singularly positioned to capture not just the $5 billion-a-year cruise market but the $50 billion meeting and conference market as well. Only American-made and registered ships are allowed to sail between United States ports and there are no American cruise ships currently afloat.
The World City, which would call at ports up and down the East Coast, has a winter home lined up -- Port Canaveral, Fla., the nation's biggest cruise port. And Westin Hotels and Resorts in Seattle agreed last month to manage the ship.
All the project lacks, Mr. Rogers said, is a loan guarantee from the Maritime Administration to back 87.5 percent of the ship's $1.2 billion construction cost.
There have been plenty of suitors for the base, said Bayonne's Mayor, Leonard P. Kiczek, who as chairman of the re-use commission has given about 60 tours since the base closing was announced last year.
The longshoremen's union wants to lease part of it for a bulk freight port. The Coast Guard plans to anchor cutters there when it leaves Governors Island. Someone wants to build a huge recycling operation. Someone else wants to blow up one of the warehouses for a movie. Other groups want to build container ports like those in Newark and Elizabeth.
But no one, Mr. Kiczek said, has presented a plan as detailed or as ambitious as World City's.
"It's one of those projects that you wish could get built," Mr. Kiczek said. "If they can get the loan guarantee within the next 18 months, there's a good chance that that kind of concept would fit into our overall re-use plan."
The "if" is a big one, however.
The ship has been on the drawing board for six years, and after World City submitted a 150-pound application for the loan guarantee last year, the Maritime Administration returned it for lack of supporting documentation.
"We'd like to have evidence from a U.S. shipyard that they are interested in doing this project," said a Federal official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "We have nothing. In fact, we have a tremendous body of contrary evidence."
The size of the guarantee gives the Government pause. The Maritime Administration would have to set aside 5 to 10 percent of the amount of the loan to back it, or about $50 million to $100 million. Last year, the entire guarantee program ran on less than $50 million.
Some Bayonne residents shared the Government's skepticism. During a break, Paul Yusack, a 72-year-old former pipe fitter, said he smelled a land grab.
"I don't think they're selling a ship," he said. "They're selling developments, and they want the land for a buck."
Suzanne Ciano, who works in the Navy's accounting department at the base, left before the show was over. "I think it's going to be exciting and great and all that," she said, "but we have seen men and women leave from this base for Desert Storm and Desert Shield to fight for our country, and to replace it with all this is very heartbreaking."
The meeting adjourned, with the reactions decidedly mixed. Mike Vitale, a retired import-export worker at the base, expressed enthusiasm.
"This is the best thing that could ever happen to the city of Bayonne," he said. "This is bigger than King Kong!"
But Marietta Dicroce, a retired schoolteacher, said she was not so sure.
"It sounds inspiring, but I wonder what the downside would be," she said. "I wonder if we'll lose our true character. Bayonne is a very traditional city with very real values. Will it ruin our youth? They'll be attracted to all that glitz and glamour."

GRAPHIC: Maps show the site of the Military Ocean Terminal in Bayonne, New Jersey. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: NCLH (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (51%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WORLD CITY CORP NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE HOLDINGS LTD (51%); MARITIME ADMINISTRATION (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD CITY CORP MARITIME ADMINISTRATION (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAYONNE (NJ); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CRUISES (89%); ADMIRALTY LAW (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); RESTAURANTS (63%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, ANDY; ROGERS, JOHN S JOHN S ROGERS (94%); LEONARD P KICZEK (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996



652 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: The Bible, a Perennial, Runs Into Sales Resistance

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL 

 BODY:
For professional Bible-thumpers -- whose task it is to promote the world's longest-running, recession-proof best seller -- this is a strangely sluggish season for marketing God's word.
The $200 million market for Bibles is as flat as a leather Bible cover and this trend has naturally resulted in much reflection. 
 Earlier last summer, the Family Bookstore chain shipped back to publishers more than $200,000 worth of rejected King James Versions that were gathering dust motes on shelves. Three new Bible translations were introduced this year amid much hoopla, but already some are being consigned to the book remainder bins.
Bible sales also took a steep plunge in June -- traditionally a time when hefty, embossed copies are given away as classic gifts to newlyweds and college graduates. Monthly sales fell to $3.7 million, an almost 48 percent drop from the comparable period a year earlier, according to the Association of American Publishers, which primarily tracks general trade publishers that produce Bibles rather than traditional religious-book publishers. Sales rebounded the following month, but remained down 9 percent for the year.
"I've never seen a time in which well-positioned and well-financed and well-done translations have entered the market with such horrible results," said Hargis Thomas, director of sales and marketing at Oxford University Press, one of the smaller publishers in the Bible market. "I think that we've reached saturation point. What we're really doing is redividing market share."
Over the years, sales of the Bible were considered immune to the vagaries of the economy because readers faithfully turned to its comforting passages in times of economic crisis. And unlike trade publishing -- which has struggled with returns of little-wanted books -- Bibles generally stayed on the shelves until they were sold.
"What we used to say was bring on the recession," Mr. Thomas recalled. "Recession drove people to church, and they realized that they were missing their Bible. But now it's no longer recession-proof because it's a much larger business than it was 20 years ago. There's an explosion of product."
It is the fifth deadly sin of marketing -- a glut -- that may account for the current flat market, according to many Bible publishers and Christian booksellers. There are now several hundred versions of the Bible, catering to every niche of reader -- from Bibles for runners and study books for teen-agers to devotionals for mothers and couples, boys and girls.
The result is too many Bibles for too few faithful, according to Michael A. Kupinski, an analyst with A. G. Edwards, who tracks Thomas Nelson Inc., the largest publicly held publisher of Bibles. "They broadened the distribution channels, but they didn't broaden the customer base."
Like trade publishers of general fiction and nonfiction, Bible publishers rode a wave of growth with the advent of superstores like Barnes & Noble and of discount warehouses that peddled books along with detergent. And like trade publishers, they also suffered when the Bibles languished on the shelves and the chains started returning books by the truckload.
Nelson reported losing almost $1.4 million in its fiscal first quarter ended in June. Its Bible revenue was down more than 6 percent from the year-earlier period, and the company attributed the drop to reduced sales and high returns from some general and Christian bookstore chains.
The company also introduced a new translation earlier this year called the Contemporary English Version, which has so far been able to capture less than 1 percent of the Bible market, according to a major Bible wholesaler, Spring Arbor.
Frank Couch, the head of Nelson's Bible division, remains optimistic, however, as the company approaches the traditional peak Bible-selling season leading up to Christmas.
"Sales are doing fine in the period that we're in now," Mr. Couch said. "It's still a sluggish year, but our Bible sales are picking up. Some people say it has to do with the election. It could be that people are preoccupied with political things."
But even if readers are getting choosier, that has not deterred publishers who try to tempt them with modernized versions of the Bible that are intended to be more relevant and accessible.
The latest entrant into the market, the New International Reader, comes this month from Zondervan, a unit of HarperCollins, which is in turn owned by the News Corporation. Zondervan is following a popular industry trend to simplified text. Of all Bibles on the market for adults, this version is geared to the lowest reading level: third grade.
Largely to counter the softness in the market for more traditional Bibles, Zondervan has devised a strategy to emphasize its front list, or newest versions, which anchor the Bible best-seller list maintained by the Christian Booksellers Association.
"Consumers are looking for what's new and relevant in their lives and they're not going to buy a Bible for the sake of buying a Bible," said Tom Mackabee, vice president and Bible publisher for Zondervan.
To determine what makes a reader open a Bible, the publisher Tyndale House commissioned a survey of 1,000 adults by Barna Research before it introduced its own breezy paraphrase of the Bible, the New Living Translation.
An overwhelming number of those polled ranked the Bible as the most influential book in history -- ahead of the second-place finisher, Dr. Benjamin Spock's "Baby and Child Care." But fewer than half actually read the Bible, and most complained about impenetrable text or the lack of time to wade through passages.
Conscious of those complaints, Tyndal introduced the New Living Translation in August with a print run of 1.1 million run and orders for more than 500,000 copies. Written at a sixth-grade reading level, this Bible took seven years to translate and prepare. A team of 90 scholars pored over the modernized passages and checked their meaning against the original text. (Psalm 23: "The Lord is my shepherd; I have everything I need.")
The New Living Translation has already moved up the Bible best-seller list to the No. 4 position, behind the perennial King James Version. The list is maintained by the Christian Booksellers Association, which is based in Colorado and represents more than 2,700 stores in the United States.
Bill Anderson, the association's president, said some of his members speculated that customers were delaying Bible purchases until the release of a new translation. But he has his doubts: "I'm not sure that customers are holding off. It's not like the release of a mustang."
It is his hope that one of the new translations will take off, promoting general Bibles sales.
"If history repeats itself," he said, "then the introduction will spur Bible sales. The excitement and the awareness causes people to read. That's what we need."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Bible is big business as well as theology. Linda Leader, a materials handler at an R. R. Donnelley & Sons plant in Crawfordsville, Ind., presides over stacks of books. (Mary A. Carter for The New York Times)
 
Chart/Graphs: "For Many, the Bible Is a Closed Book" shows sampling of survey results on who reads the Bible and why. (Source: Barna Research via Tyndale House Publishers) (pg. D10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TNM (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS561920 CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW ORGANIZERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: FAMILY BOOKSTORE THOMAS NELSON INC (84%); OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (82%); ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN PUBLISHERS (56%); ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN PUBLISHERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAMILY BOOKSTORE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN PUBLISHERS (56%); ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN PUBLISHERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); INDIANA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BIBLE; SALES; BOOK TRADE; PUBLIC OPINION; BOOKS AND LITERATURE PUBLISHING (91%); RELIGION (91%); BOOKSTORES (90%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (89%); BOOK PUBLISHING (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); MARKET SHARE (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LITERATURE (76%); TRENDS (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); 

PERSON: CARVAJAL, DOREEN

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996



653 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Lippo Suction

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
In 1994, a former U.S. naval officer named Nicholas Eftimiades, who now works for our Defense Intelligence Agency, wrote and cleared an article titled "Chinese Intelligence Operations" for the Naval Institute Press.
"Case officers make extensive use of commercial covers," he reported. "For example, a vice president of the China Resources Holding Company (Hua Ren Jituan) in Hong Kong is traditionally a military case officer from Guangzhou. This officer coordinates the collection activities of other intelligence personnel operating under Hua Ren cover." 
 In 1995, David Harris, ex-chief of strategic planning of Canadian intelligence, confirmed in The Globe and Mail of Toronto that "U.S. Intelligence even says Hong Kong's China Resources Holding Co. traditionally reserves one vice-presidential position for an MID [Military Intelligence Department] intelligence officer."
What does China's espionage use of a company in Hong Kong have to do with us? Only this: In November of 1992, China Resources bought control of the Hongkong Chinese Bank, part of the Lippo empire headed by Indonesia's Riady family.
That put Lippo in business with the Chinese Communists. This is the same family that bought a Little Rock bank in the mid-80's that turned out to be of great help to the Clintons. And this was a family whose patriarch boasted of placing one of his employees -- John Huang, who worked at the Hongkong Chinese Bank in the mid-80's -- in a sensitive trade post in the Clinton Administration.
The Riadys' Mr. Huang has been as missing as Suharto's first name for three weeks, and has recently been untouchable by marshals with subpoenas. The Democratic National Committee, despite public assurances from Chairman Chris Dodd, is trying not to surface its fund-raising vice chairman to answer reporters' questions until the election is over.
Most media interest in Huang concerns funny foreign fund-raising and laundered contributions, and is brushed off by White House cover-uppers with an airy everybody-does-it. But the line of inquiry that troubles them is what the Riadys' man did at the Department of Commerce when he was principal deputy assistant secretary for international trade.
Merely a low-level flunky, Secretary Mickey Kantor would have us believe. Top-secret clearance meant nothing; the Lippo million-dollar bonus baby was supposedly only a paper-pusher, of no influence on policy, privy to no really sensitive material.
I think that's baloney. "Huang was high enough to see everything," a foreign-trade hand says, "and low enough not to be seen."
When a mid-level official at Commerce gets to attend two private meetings in the Oval Office with the President and James Riady, word gets around that this guy has clout. If Huang had such access to the Oval Office, logic suggests he would have access to trade secrets and trade negotiating policy, economic intelligence of great interest to his former employer and its new partner in China.
I have seen no evidence at all to suggest that John Huang is anything other than a loyal American citizen eager to advance himself and his friends through aggressive fund-raising for Democrats -- aided, as Newsweek now reveals, by a Clinton political diplomat on Taiwan.
But what Congress, the Justice Department and the White House should want to know is this: The Lippo bank in Los Angeles at which Huang worked signed the F.D.I.C.'s cease-and-desist order regarding anti-money laundering laws. Was Huang questioned about the F.D.I.C.'s inquiry before getting a top-secret post?
And given the Defense Intelligence Agency's knowledge of Chinese spying conducted out of a Lippo affiliate, did no spook raise a question about placing Lippo's longtime employee in a position to see our economic secrets? (D.I.A., worried about offending Clinton, may yank Eftimiades off China operations.)
"Please be advised that the F.B.I. did not conduct an investigation of Mr. Huang," faxes the F.B.I., correcting my assumption that top-secret clearance required its full fieldwork. Only a name check came from the F.B.I.; perhaps the security-unconscious Office of Personnel Management waved Huang through.
We'll find more to the Asian connection than fund-raising -- unless Clinton's corruption is abetted by an anything-goes Democratic Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: 0226 (HKSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (92%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (95%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); 

STATE: GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (57%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (57%); 

COMPANY: LIPPO GROUP LIPPO LTD (92%); HONGKONG CHINESE BANK LTD (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%); DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIPPO GROUP DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (95%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (57%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ETHICS INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NAVIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ESPIONAGE (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); SUBPOENAS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); MEN (71%); FUNDRAISING (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); ETHICS (60%); 

PERSON: RIADY FAMILY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SAFIRE, WILLIAM CHRISTOPHER DODD (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996



654 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE VOTERS;
In Battleground State, Weapons Are Falling Silent

SERIES: STATE BY STATE: Pennsylvania

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: HARRISBURG, Pa., Oct. 27

 BODY:
What happens when a Presidential campaign all but disappears?
Pennsylvania, historically one of the crucial cockpits of national politics, has found out in the last 10 days. For strategic reasons, Bob Dole and Bill Clinton stopped visiting the state and pulled television advertising off the air -- one because he was behind, one because he was ahead, both because they thought they could use scarce resources to better effect elsewhere. 
 Mr. Dole staged a big rally at Point State Park in Pittsburgh just after the Republican convention in San Diego. Mr. Clinton spent $400,000 on one Philadelphia television station in September alone. But the Dole campaign "went dark," as they say in the trade, on Oct. 6 in Pittsburgh and Scranton, Oct. 14 in Philadelphia and Harrisburg. The Clinton campaign followed suit last week.
With little coverage on local television news, Pennsylvanians have been left with mere glimpses of the campaign on network broadcasts and in newspaper accounts. Only an occasional radio commercial pierces the silence in the media markets around Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Allentown and Wilkes-Barre.
In Lancaster, capital of the Pennsylvania Dutch country, Thomas O'Brien, the chairman of the local Clinton organization, bought advertising space just below the windshields on 33 Red Rose Transit Authority buses, and then wrote to President Clinton, imploring him to visit the area, a Republican stronghold.
"I guess people remember there's an election," said Tony Podesta, the Washington lobbyist and political strategist who oversees Pennsylvania for Mr. Clinton. "I haven't heard about anyone waking up in the middle of the night and shouting, 'My God, what will I do without campaign commercials?' "
Not likely, said Kathleen Hall Jamieson of the Annenberg School of Communications at the University of Pennsylvania, a student of political advertising. The absence of Presidential commercials from the state was "good riddance," she said, "because the kinds of ads we were seeing, two ethics ads, one from each side, both lies, only create cynicism and further dispirit the voters."
The laws of inertia being what they are, the Presidential race has stayed where it was, with Mr. Clinton 14 to 16 points ahead in the polls. And maybe, just maybe, Mr. Dole's absence, combined with the lack of races for senator or governor this year, will hurt Republicans down the ticket. Two Republican House seats appear to be at risk, with a third a little bit shaky as well.
Democrats are thrilled. The state's 23 electoral votes, the fifth largest bloc, bigger than those of hard-fought Ohio and Michigan, look to be in the bag for the President. The day the word spread that Mr. Dole was diverting advertising money from here to California, gleeful Clinton operatives parked a car outside Republican headquarters with its radio blaring, "California, Here I Come," just to rub it in.
The Republicans are used to winning here. Both Senators and the Governor are Republicans, and the party controls both houses of the State Legislature. But this year, they can only talk bravely, as underdogs do, about grass-roots campaigning, yard signs, direct mail, phone banks and getting out the vote.
"We're still here," said Pat Conway, the executive director of the Dole campaign in Pennsylvania. "We haven't gone anywhere. We have six full-time people in the field, five at headquarters, and we're still fighting the ground war, even if the air war has been suspended. We can still close the gap."
Mr. Conway got some help this weekend from a visit to Erie by Jack Kemp, the Republican Vice-Presidential nominee, and Mr. Clinton, relenting, has scheduled a visit to the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia on Tuesday.
But that's probably it for the campaign. In this state, said David Buffington, who publishes a political newsletter, "nothing has changed and nothing is going to, as far as the Presidential race -- Dole gets massacred."
"Cut through the overanalysis," he said, "and listen to what the voters say. Fairly or unfairly, people tell me Dole is too old, an old, bad campaigner against a young, good campaigner. And we have peace and prosperity. If the economy was in the tank and Bosnia was blowing up, it might be different. But they aren't."
The disappearance of Presidential commercials means more air time is available for others, not only local candidates but also national organizations like the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which has been bombarding swing districts with anti-Republican advertisements; a business coalition headed by the Chamber of Commerce, taking the opposite tack, and Citizens Action, a public advocacy group, running ads on the environment.
Ed Mitchell, a Wilkes-Barre consultant, said he was getting calls from television stations asking whether his candidates wanted more time and in some cases offering cut rates, which are as rare in October of an election year as self-deprecating candidates.
G. Terry Madonna, director of the Center for Politics and Public Affairs at Millersville University, said he considered it "a disastrous mistake" for Mr. Dole to have gone off the air, in terms of New Jersey, which has a close Senate contest and is reached by Philadelphia television, as well as Pennsylvania.
"With no one active at the top of the ticket," he explained, "the Republican Senate and House candidates are out there naked. The President is the President, and his voters will come out, but the Republicans, I doubt it. It could make a difference -- you pick a number -- of 8, 9, 10 points."
The most vulnerable Republican in Pennsylvania may be Representative Phil English of Erie, in the northwest corner of the state. A freshman, he won two years ago by fewer than 5,000 votes in a marginal district, and this year he is running from his party. While his challenger, Ron DiNicola, slams him for having voted with Speaker Newt Gingrich 97 percent of the time, he puts President Clinton in his commercials and said during a debate with Mr. DiNicola this month, "I broke with my party to fight to raise the minimum wage."
After an unimpressive start, Mr. DiNicola seems to have pulled his campaign together. An immigrant's son from Erie who made his way to a high-powered Los Angeles legal career by way of the Marines and Harvard, he has raised $100,000 in the last few weeks and has brought in Bob Shrum and Tad Devine, a pair of well-regarded Democratic guns for hire, to handle advertisements and strategy.
Pennsylvania's other House freshman, Representative Jon D. Fox, represents the lush Main Line suburbs west of Philadelphia. His district elected a Democrat, Marjorie Margolies-Mezvinsky, in 1992, the "year of the woman," and rejected her in the 1994 Republican tidal wave. Although places like Bryn Mawr and Radnor remain profoundly Republican, they are also strongholds of the soccer moms whose antipathy to the party's stand on abortion has caused many to defect.
There as in Erie, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. is pouring hundreds of thousands of dollars into the effort to oust the Republican incumbent, and the Democratic challenger, in this case Joseph M. Hoeffel, a Montgomery County commissioner, is trying to capitalize on Mr. Gingrich's unpopularity. Mr. Fox may be in trouble.
A Philadelphia Daily News poll 10 days ago showed Mr. Fox ahead by 8 percentage points, 43 to 35; it is a warning sign when an incumbent has not reached 50 percent late in the campaign. Furthermore, 52 percent of the respondents gave Mr. Fox a fair or poor job approval rating, a very weak showing.
Private polls show Mr. Clinton running well ahead in the county, and the outcome of the Fox-Hoeffel race may depend on how much Mr. Dole's inactivity affects Republican turnout. Will Republicans offended by the Republican right stay home, or will they turn out, vote against Mr. Dole on ideological grounds, then vote for their local Republican, Mr. Fox, to make amends?
No one had expected a particularly close contest in the Fifth District in central Pennsylvania, a mountainous domain that includes State College, Bradford and Oil City. Representative William F. Clinger Jr., a Republican who is retiring, drew no Democratic opposition in 1992 or 1994. But State Representative Ruth C. Rudy, a longtime member of the Democratic National Committee, is given an outside chance of beating her Republican rival, State Senator John E. Peterson, whose campaign has been damaged by newspaper allegations of sexual harrassment.
The Harrisburg Patriot-News printed accusations last week that he had made unwelcome sexual advances to four female legislative employees, one a teen-age page. He called it a political attack, and though the accusations have gained a certain level of credibility in state political circles, he is still favored. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (78%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) REPUBLICAN HOUSE (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) REPUBLICAN HOUSE (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA; UNITED STATES (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (78%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); RADIO ADVERTISING (77%); LOBBYING (77%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); ETHICS (61%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); THOMAS M O'BRIEN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996



655 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: In Dole's Hometown, a White-Knuckle Finish

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: RUSSELL, Kan., Oct. 26

 BODY:
To find the heart of Bob Dole's hometown in these last unsettled days of his campaign, do not go to Dole headquarters on Main Street. Or to the afternoon coffee-and-pie gatherings of the town elders at Meridy's. Or even to the V.F.W. hall with the plaque honoring Dole outside and old war friends inside.
Go no further then the cozy cocoon of sunflower prints, silk floral arrangements, cuckoo clocks and Bob Dole photographs that is the living room of Mr. Dole's eldest sister, Gloria Nelson, on West Fifth Street. 
 "The wrong man," Mrs. Nelson said, her bright yellow sunflower earrings bouncing as she rocked energetically in her easy chair, "is getting chomped."
There are more than a few people here distraught over the troubles that have befallen the man celebrated in a banner over Main Street as "Our Hometown Hero." And they are further concerned about the disfavor a defeat of Mr. Dole might bring to the reputation and economy of this proud, tiny town, whose fortunes have been tied to his for almost 40 years.
But there is probably no one who expresses that more plainly and plaintively then Bob Dole's 75-year-old sister. Mrs. Nelson is Bob Dole unvarnished, defending her home and her little brother against what she sees as an assault by the news media and the Democrats. Mrs. Nelson speaks for Russell when she declares: "We just don't deserve this. This town is a close-knit family. We don't want Bob to get hurt. We just don't deserve this."
Mrs. Nelson recited the questions that have been raised about Mr. Clinton's character, like philandering and marijuana experimentation, and the tales of scandals she hears on the Rush Limbaugh's talk show each day. "Why don't they write about those things?" she demanded. "Why don't they leave Bob Dole alone? He hasn't done anything wrong."
"Why are they putting Bob in this bad light?" continued Mrs. Nelson, her voice quivering with indignation, her five rings and Bob Dole wristwatch glinting in the sun. "To just start kicking him -- kicking him when he's down. They're just kicking him because, in their estimation, he's not going to win this."
The sentiments shared here by Mrs. Nelson -- "I'm his big sister; you've got to stand up for him" -- offer a glimpse at the anxiety of this central Kansas town of 4,800. Like Bob Dole, Russell holds its emotions close. But it is clear that the people here are suffering with Mr. Dole in these last, difficult days of his candidacy, almost as if Russell itself were running for President.
In the streets and stores and homes and restaurants of Russell, there is some talk of Harry S. Truman in 1948 and much denunciation of polls. But there is mostly scorn for Mr. Clinton and the news media, contempt for voters who don't see Mr. Dole the way his friends and neighbors do and anguish for Mr. Dole himself.
"They're just like me," said G. B. (Bub) Dawson, 79, whose father owned the drugstore where Mr. Dole worked as a boy, speaking of the people of Russell. "They can't understand the polls. They can't understand why Whitewater and sexual harassment and all that stuff---- All that should have annihilated the man. Nothing seems to stick to him."
Until these past few weeks, this year has, by everyone's account, been a thrilling one for Russell, with Presidential campaign visits, a welcome stream of tourists off Interstate 70 and the attention paid by reporters from all over the world. "Everybody's been on television," Mr. Dawson said.
Now, though, there is an elegaic feeling that all this attention might be about to end. It is poignant that a town that was ready to measure the drapes for a Dole Presidential library -- and to join Abilene, Kan., and Independence, Mo., on the lucrative Midwestern Presidential tourist circuit -- is talking about lowering its sights. "There's no reason why we can't have just a Dole library," said the Mayor of Russell, Neal Farmer. "A Presidential library would be super. But there's nothing wrong with a Dole library."
When Mr. Dole quit the Senate last year, he declared that he had "nowhere to go but the White House or home." But even as his friends here reach out to cushion him if he should fall, no one in Russell really believes that Mr. Dole would return to a town where the only place open on Main Street last Friday night was a pool hall named "Something to Do." And while most people hope that he will squeeze in a last visit before Election Day (he plans to), no one is surprised to hear that he expects to return to Washington for election night, before heading that evening to his Florida condominium.
In truth, the relationship between Mr. Dole and Russell has always been more complex than presented by his campaign. On one visit here this year, Mr. Dole refused to use a teleprompter, saying the use of such a Washington affectation would be disrespectful. "I couldn't do that to the people of Russell," he told a frustrated adviser. Still, Mr. Dole, unlike Mr. Clinton four years ago, placed his headquarters in Washington, rather than in his home state, which some critics felt made the campaign too captive to the rhythm of the Washington establishment.
But if Mr. Dole has sought to turn the small-town image of Russell to his political advantage, Russell has also done well because of its association with Mr. Dole. "I've probably had more foreign and out-of-state visitors in the last six months than I've had the last 20 years," Mayor Farmer said.
As what could well be Mr. Dole's last campaign comes to an end, the analysis offered by Mr. Dole's former neighbors for his difficulties is not that much different from that offered on the Sunday morning talk shows: He is seen as too old, too unpolished -- the wrong man running at the wrong time. Even here, people generally say they are better off then they were four years ago. "I think that most people feel -- even Republicans -- that Clinton has done a reasonably good job," said Allan D. Evans, the publisher and general manager of The Russell Daily News.
Still, all of that has combined to produce a sense of evident frustration at Mr. Dole's plight. A small notice taped to the counter in Mr. Dole's headquarters -- it is a former pool hall -- asks if it makes sense for a "veteran to vote for a draft dodger; a woman to vote for a womanizer; or an honest person to vote for a chronic liar." And at Chuckie's beauty saloon, Chuckie Schmidt, the owner, said she hoped that "our society kind of sees the light and comes through." She added, "We need some honesty and integrity back in the White House."
Whatever the outcome, Mrs. Nelson, Mr. Dole's sister, is intent on making sure that the man everyone here calls Bob (never Senator) emerges from this experience with his reputation intact. She is a bit of a renegade who stealthily agreed to an interview even after her sister, Norma Jean Steele, called before dawn, on the instructions of skittish campaign officials in Washington, to cancel an appointment for both sisters with a reporter. "I want to get this off my chest," Mrs. Nelson said, in explaining why she was crossing her sister.
"This idea that he's going to go down in disgrace and be a nobody," she said with exasperation. "He'll go down as an elder statesman.
"Bob Dole will take this right on the chin and go on. It's sad for the country. I'd like to be a winner's sister. I don't think I'll be, but whatever I'll be, I'll be his sister, that's for sure. Win or lose, we'll make this just fine."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Republican headquarters on Saturday in Bob Dole's hometown of Russell, Kan., G. B. (Bub) Dawson, at left, and Russ Townsley pondered the political fortunes of their longtime friend. The townspeople who know Mr. Dole "can't understand the polls," Mr. Dawson said; Gloria Nelson, Bob Dole's eldest sister, and other longtime Dole fans in his hometown are anxious about what the election will mean for him. "I'm his big sister," Mrs. Nelson said. "You've got to stand up for him." (Photographs by Charlie Riedel for The New York Times)
 
Map shows the location of Russell, Kansas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS; RUSSELL (KAN); UNITED STATES (94%); KANSAS, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; NAGOURNEY, ADAM RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996



656 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-9
 
VATICAN VISIT TO CUBA
A Vatican envoy is visiting Cuba in what church officials and diplomats describe as a prelude to a possible meeting between Pope John Paul II and President Fidel Castro. A3
 
LEBED SUCCESSOR MEETS REBELS
Russia's security chief met with Chechen rebels for the first time and said he would hold to the peace agreement signed by his predecessor, Aleksandr I. Lebed. A4
 
ACCORD ON ECONOMY IN MEXICO
The Mexican Government has reached an accord with labor and business intended to keep wages in check and insure that austerity policies continue for another year. A3
 
DELAYS CLEARING BOSNIA MINES
International efforts to clear land mines are stalled in Bosnia, with some Government officials attempting to siphon off money and others resisting the program in case of another war. A8
 
Comic books are used to alert children to mine dangers. A8
 
BLEAK VOTE IN BULGARIA
Bulgarians voted in a presidential election that Western diplomats said was unlikely to change the country's bleak image as the worst-managed in Eastern Europe. A6
 
AFRICA'S BREWING CALAMITY
News analysis: A series of long-simmering ethnic conflicts along the border of Zaire, Rwanda and Burundi now threaten to engulf the three in a regional war. A8
 
JAPAN'S CRIMINAL MYSTERY
The police in Japan appeared to make some progress in solving the attempted murder of the national police chief, one of the country's great criminal mysteries. A7
 
DEADLOCK IN TALKS OVER HEBRON
An American mediator shuttled between Arabs and Israelis struggling to end talks over Hebron before the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, leaves on a European tour. A9
 
FIGHTING WORSENS IN AFGHANISTAN
Two allied factions struck at the Taliban militia from the air and on the ground, widening the fighting in Afghanistan and seemingly ending hopes for a cease-fire. A9
 
Paris Journal: A winemaking comeback for the City of Light. A4
 
National A10-17, B7
 
CLINTON SPEAKS ON CANCER
Speaking in Virginia, President Clinton made a special appeal to women by highlighting Government efforts to fight breast cancer. A1
 
THE PRESIDENT'S MILITARY RECORD
The Clinton Record: Bill Clinton can rightly claim to have used military force to save lives in Bosnia and Haiti. But he and his national security team had a lot to learn when they took power. A1
 
IGNORING PENNSYLVANIA
For strategic reasons, Bob Dole and Bill Clinton stopped visiting Pennsylvania and pulled television advertising off the air, leaving the state with mere glimpses of the campaign. A1
 
Bob Dole called the Clinton Administration a "group of elitists. A15
 
In Canton, Mr. Clinton is winning the Battle of the Lesser Evils. A14
 
A Republican ad campaign implicitly concedes a Dole defeat. A17
 
Voters seem to be resisting character attacks. A14
 
A MAN UNDER THE MICROSCOPE
The story of Richard Jewell, the one-time suspect in the Olympic bombing, provides a lesson about the power of the Federal Government to disrupt the lives and speaks volumes about the capacity of the news media to cause damage. A1
 
The papers that broke the Jewell news were quieter yesterday. B7
 
HOMETOWN'S LAMENT
In Russell, Kan., Bob Dole's hometown, more than a few are distraught over the troubles that have befallen the man celebrated in a banner over Main Street. A10
 
EFFORT TO CUT TEEN-AGE BIRTHS
In Gem County, Idaho, teen-age girls, and their boyfriends, have been charged with fornication after the prosecutor was told by teachers, family members or social workers that the girls were pregnant. A10
 
BUMPER APPLE CROP
Washington is harvesting what is likely to be the state's largest apple crop, using advanced technology and economies of scale that may make the family-run orchard a thing of the past. A13
 
Metro Report B1-6
 
WINNERS AGAIN, AT LAST
 They called it historic, majestic, sublime. They compared it to Christmas morning as a kid or the best birthday ever. New Yorkers were gleefully lost among the metaphors yesterday, but any way you looked at it, the New York Yankees were the toast of the town. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-20
 
How public art turns political. C15
A woman producer's new book about Hollywood. C15
Music: Montreal Symphony. C15
 
Sports C1-14
 
CALL THEM CHAMPIONS
Yankees Manager Joe Torre was exhilarated and emotionally drained yesterday, a day after his team won the World Series. His players were moved by the fans' reaction to their victory Saturday night at Yankee Stadium. A1
 
Obituaries D11
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19
 
Editorials
 
Robert Torricelli for the Senate.
An effective global court.
A team for New York in the 90's.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: Winking at Karadzic.
Bob Herbert: More than winners.
William Safire: Lippo suction.
Philip Gourevitch: Zaire's killer camps.
 
Chronicle B12
 
Bridge B10
 
Crossword C16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: HOLY SEE (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (92%); CUBA (92%); JAPAN (92%); BULGARIA (89%); ISRAEL (79%); RWANDA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFRICA (79%); BURUNDI (79%); HAITI (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); FRANCE (53%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOLY SEE (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (92%); CUBA (92%); JAPAN (92%); BULGARIA (89%); ISRAEL (79%); RWANDA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFRICA (79%); BURUNDI (79%); HAITI (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); FRANCE (53%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RELIGION (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); TALIBAN (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (69%); LANDMINES (69%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); BREAST CANCER (64%); CANCER (61%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (57%); MURDER (54%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996



657 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Bosnia Is Strewn With Danger as Resistance and Blunders Delay Mine Clearance

BYLINE: By MIKE O'CONNOR 

DATELINE: SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina

 BODY:
When the West turned to the question of helping Bosnia's people reclaim their fields, their homes and their schools after three and a half years of war, it became clear that the most immediate obstacle was the widespread presence of land mines.
But after more than 10 months of acknowledged bumbling by international groups and what some aid officials say is obstruction by the Bosnian Government, mine clearing has barely begun. With snow and frozen ground only weeks away, progress will not be possible in most of the country until next spring. 
 International officials say that the Bosnian Government has delayed several programs by attempting to siphon off money in the form of taxes and that some Bosnian leaders are preparing for another war and do not want the mines removed.
"This is a humanitarian mission to help the people of Bosnia, but the Government doesn't care," said Richard Sklar, President Clinton's envoy for reconstruction programs in Bosnia. "The Government's first interest is to make money."
Maj. David Pardy, the NATO officer overseeing the limited mine removal being carried out by Bosnia's three armies, said many officers think the war could resume.
"They want to keep defensive walls around themselves," he said. "They are in no hurry to lift these mines up."
A leader of Bosnia's governing party, Ismet Grbo, agreed that delays in mine clearing were inexcusable, but he said they were caused by the countries donating the money.
Foreign officials say Serbian and Croatian authorities have cooperated, although they acknowledge delays in the Croatian and Serbian areas of Bosnia because of poor organization in international efforts.
Early this year, international officials say, the Bosnian Government insisted that mine clearing be done by Bosnian companies under Government control. "They thought a bag of money was going to be put on a bureaucrat's desk and no one would watch how it was spent," said George Focsaneanu, the United Nations official in charge of coordinating mine clearing.
Instead, with much delay, the United States, Norway and the European Union all devised their own programs. The World Bank is also lending the Government about $8 million to hire Bosnian contractors. But the total cost of international programs could reach $40 million next year, about one-third of that for salaries to the Bosnian workers on which the Government wants to collect a tax of 53 percent. Mr. Sklar, the American official, said of the tax: "We are not going to put up with that. I think the U.S. should be out of this business by the end of November if we don't have a satisfactory program."
Mines and unexploded shells are scattered across the country. Mr. Focsaneanu, the United Nations expert, said perhaps 40 percent of the minefields had not been located. "I wouldn't walk off a paved surface anywhere in this country," he said.
The United Nations reported 61 injuries and deaths caused by mines in Sarajevo alone in the last two months.
The effort to clear mines had a troubled start in January. The European Union bought more than $700,000 of equipment and gave it to NATO forces. But NATO found the gear unsuitable, said Tom Walker, a Union spokesman.
After waiting a further nine months, the Europeans decided to spend $7.4 million to train and equip 350 Bosnian civilians and then pay them to remove mines. But the training has not begun.
A similar program, sponsored by the State Department, has recently begun to train workers. They are to be sent to warmer, though less populated areas of Bosnia to work this winter. The American program was delayed for months when the Bosnian Government refused to provide buildings they had promised for offices and training centers, officials said.
According to American officials, the Bosnian Government also said it could find no candidates for the training, even though there are more than 100,000 demobilized soldiers who are without work.
"The international community has acted disgracefully, all of us," Mr. Sklar said. "We dawdled."
In September, Mr. Focsaneanu arrived as a coordinator.
"Until three weeks ago we didn't have a coordinated plan," he said, adding that there were now not enough donors.
He said that the four programs must be able to train at least 2,000 people by April if they are to make notable progress next year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (92%); CROATIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); EUROPE (79%); NORWAY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (92%); CROATIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); EUROPE (79%); NORWAY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MINES, EXPLOSIVE; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE LANDMINES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); UNEXPLODED ORDNANCE (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); 

PERSON: O'CONNOR, MIKE BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996



658 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2956 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: NATIONAL SECURITY;
Clinton as a Military Leader: Tough On-the-Job Training

SERIES: THE CLINTON RECORD: Defense

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 27

 BODY:
In his first term as President, Bill Clinton, who came to power having commanded nothing bigger than the Arkansas National Guard, has confronted national security problems that would have bedeviled a battle-hardened cold warrior.
His spy service discovered that it had been betrayed from within by a traitor for years. His Pentagon was reluctant to follow his orders to fight small battles in faraway places for political goals. And President George Bush had left behind political land mines in places like Bosnia, Haiti, Iraq, North Korea and Somalia. 
 Mr. Clinton groped for clear-cut paths through the mine fields, reversing course, searching for direction. As a commander of soldiers and spies, he was far less experienced than his predecessor.
Today he can rightly claim to have used American military force, without losing a life in battle, to save lives in Bosnia and Haiti. He proudly points to the fact that Moscow's nuclear missiles are no longer aimed at the United States. But the President and his national security team had a lot to learn when they took power, as interviews with present and past Clinton Administration officials suggest. In 1993 and 1994, they learned by making mistakes.
"The whole national security apparatus of the President was in terrible disarray," said Philip Zelikow, a National Security Council staff member under President Bush. "There was poor central direction from the White House and a weak N.S.C. staff -- the worst since the first Reagan Administration. They didn't know what they didn't know."
Clearly, Mr. Clinton did not inspire confidence among the generals and admirals and C.I.A. barons who ran the national security bureaucracy. Mr. Bush had seen combat, as has Bob Dole, but the first President with an anti-war past had a hard time taking command. It did not help when young White House aides tried ordering old soldiers around.
"It was terrible," said a high-ranking Pentagon official. "I had the feeling the White House wanted the Department of Defense to cease to be a part of the United States Government. We had terrible relations with the White House. They did not understand national defense."
The men Mr. Clinton chose to run the military and intelligence establishments were forced to resign. And then, embarrassingly, the men the President chose to replace them bowed out.
Mr. Clinton's first Defense Secretary, the late Les Aspin, was an absent-minded professor who had appalling relationships with the military. He was eased out, but the man nominated to succeed him, Bobby Ray Inman, a retired admiral, gave a weirdly rambling speech declining the honor. The Director of Central Intelligence, R. James Woolsey, ran into a buzz saw: a mole inside the C.I.A. had sold its deepest secrets to Moscow. After Mr. Woolsey resigned, an excruciatingly long search produced a retired Air Force general, Michael P. C. Carns, who withdrew with mumbled explanations about the immigration status of his Filipino house boy.
But things began changing for the better two years ago. After months of hand-wringing, Mr. Clinton sent troops to Haiti to restore a democratically elected president ousted by a violent military junta. The action seemed to give him courage. Nor was it the only success. The national security team has worked hard to reduce the nuclear threat to the United States from Russia and the newly independent states of the former Soviet Union. It persuaded North Korea to stop a nuclear-weapons program. Working with overseas allies, the C.I.A. helped take apart the Cali cocaine cartel and helped catch the prime suspect in the World Trade Center bombings.
The man who took over the C.I.A., John M. Deutch, is visibly trying to improve the ways in which the agency gathers and analyzes secret information. The man who took over the Pentagon, William Perry, made the White House make decisions about national security, and either back them up with force or handle them diplomatically.
"A strong defense secretary -- the strongest in a generation," said Mr. Zelikow. "Bill Perry is a man with deep experience, strong convictions, intellectual horsepower. Perry ran the Pentagon competently, and the rest of the team learned from their mistakes."
In the battle for the White House, Mr. Clinton has moved to protect his right flank on national security issues, taking up positions close to or indistinguishable from those held by Republicans. He kept weapons production lines open to save jobs, especially in California, the biggest electoral state. This year, after promising to veto an $11 billion spending increase passed by Congressional Republicans, a sum over and above what the Pentagon said it needed, Mr. Clinton signed it into law. Today his five-year military budget differs from Republican plans by about 1 percent. As on other issues -- social, economic and political -- he has become something of a Replicrat, or a Duplican, to use terms coined by the novelist Norman Rush.
One of the real differences between Mr. Dole and Mr. Clinton is over the immediate need for a system that could theoretically shoot down enemy missiles over the United States. Mr. Clinton is continuing research on a ballistic missile defense system; Mr. Dole promises to deploy one. But the technology remains uncertain and the cost could run to $60 billion or more.
The question of Mr. Clinton's leadership in national security, often raised by Mr. Dole, will persist if he is re-elected and a new national security team comes off the bench to replace the exhausted first string. That bench is not very deep. And just as he inherited crises from his predecessor, Mr. Clinton could bequeath himself a nest of booby traps, a backlog of potential crises that he has handled gingerly but in no way defused.
"The war in Bosnia could start again," said William E. Odom, the National Security Agency director under President Reagan. "Korea could blow up. Trying to contain both Iran and Iraq can't last. The Middle East peace process could unravel. These problems are festering. They've been able to put them off with tactical measures. But the second Administration will likely be shot through with disasters of their own making."

Fighting
Finding a Job For the Troops
Every cold-war President with a serious problem in a faraway place could call on the C.I.A. to secretly ship weapons to a rebel leader, pay off a foreign potentate or rent a guerrilla group. Or he could send in the Marines.
That is not so easy for the first post-cold-war President. Without an enemy equal to the United States, Mr. Clinton has had to use power in ways that are not war.
In Somalia, where President Bush had committed American forces to provide famine relief, the troops became caught in the middle of tribal warfare and 18 Army Rangers were killed in October 1993 while trying to track down a leader of one faction.
And he has used covert action sparingly. His only large-scale covert action was a $20 million-a-year effort to undermine Saddam Hussein, without success. He has used soldiers to solve political problems, like enforcing the cease-fire in the Balkans. But that is not what most soldiers are trained to do -- nor what some their commanders want to do.
"There are times when only America can make the difference between war and peace, between freedom and repression, between hope and fear," Mr. Clinton said on Tuesday in Detroit, in his first and only foreign-policy speech since the Democratic convention in August. "We cannot and should not try to be the world's policeman; but where our interests and values are clearly at stake and where we can make a difference, we must act and lead.
"We must lead in two ways. First, by meeting the immediate challenges to our interests from rogue regimes, from sudden explosions of ethnic, racial and religious and tribal hatreds from short-term crises, and second, by making long-term investments in security, prosperity, peace and freedom that can prevent these problems from arising in the first place."
It was as close to making a statement approaching a Clinton Doctrine as he has ever come, and it was nearly four years in the making. On Tuesday, referring to the deployment of troops in Bosnia and Haiti, Mr. Clinton said he was "able to succeed because, first, we accepted the responsibility to lead."
But learning to lead took time. The President and his national security aides seemed thunderstruck at first by the idea of using military power. They deferred to Gen. Colin L. Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for nine months under President Clinton, whose doctrine called for overwhelming force, or no force at all. "In Bosnia and Haiti, the only sensible policy was limited force for limited ends," said James Chace, editor of World Policy Journal, an international-affairs quarterly. "This caused a partial paralysis."
Joseph Nye, dean of the Kennedy School of Government, who served the Clinton Administration in military and intelligence posts, said: "After that very difficult first year, they took their lumps and went ahead to an understanding of the sensible use of force. After a rocky start, they've been effective in trying to steer a path between becoming the world's policeman and realizing that America is the only country with the capability to project power."
It is still an awkward fit between the Pentagon and a President some officers regard as a draft-dodger. To win acceptance as Commander in Chief, Mr. Clinton has been deferential to the military. To win the troops' trust, he has spent billions improving military pay, housing and day care. To win over the brass, he has changed his mind on some issues, spending billions on weaponry he once said the nation did not need and backing off his pledge to let homosexuals serve openly in the military.
And more than any President in memory, he has used his Defense Secretary as a gunboat diplomat. While Haiti and Bosnia grabbed the headlines, Mr. Perry and the more experienced members of Mr. Clinton's national security team were trying to tie up one of the messiest loose ends of the cold war: the control of nuclear weapons in the chaos of the dismantled Communist empire.
In 1994, after an excruciating internal debate, which included plans to re-enforce American troops in South Korea -- a move some feared would start a second Korean War -- they offered North Korea economic assistance in exchange for an end to a suspected nuclear-weapons program and a lessening of tensions in the Korean peninsula.
"There was a real prospect of war in a country where we had 37,000 soldiers," said Ashton B. Carter, who resigned last month as the assistant Secretary of Defense for international security policy. "We were head to head with North Korea. They had a million men under arms and a totally unpredictable nature. But they actually signed up to what we wanted: an end to their program. And somewhat miraculously, it has stuck."
They enlisted 19 former Communist states in the Partnership for Peace, a kind of neo-NATO, and worked with them to dismantle more than $2 billion worth of weapons. "There is one piece of very good news and one piece of bad news here," said Graham Allison, who served as assistant Secretary of Defense for policy plans. "The good news is the elimination of nuclear arsenals in Ukraine and Khazakstan." The bad news, he said, is that 30,000 nuclear warheads and 70,000 lumps of highly enriched uranium and plutonium are under increasingly poor control in Russia.
While those warheads are no longer aimed at the United States, the new threat is that "a warhead or a softball-sized lump of highly enriched uranium gets loose and into hands of a terrorist group or rogue state," Mr. Allison said. "They fashion a crude device. And they do something horrible." That threat, he said, has increased since 1993.

Spying
The C.I.A. Rarely Gets Any Respect
This, above all, is why the United States has an intelligence agency: to guard against a nuclear Pearl Harbor. But under Mr. Clinton, few branches of the Government have got less respect than the Central Intelligence Agency.
Mr. Clinton rarely admitted his first intelligence chief, Mr. Woolsey, to his inner circle, possibly because Mr. Woolsey was often a bearer of bad tidings, and the President did not want to hear what he had to say. That is a kiss of death for the C.I.A., whose power flows from providing secrets to the President.
"Woolsey is a compulsive truth-teller with a contrarian impulse, and he thought the job was a license to tell the truth, the real story," Mr. Zelikow said. "He did this with the President. And it was unpopular." Mr. Woolsey, who has endorsed Bob Dole, declined to be interviewed.
Then came one of the greatest disasters in the agency's history. The case of Aldrich H. Ames, the mole for Moscow arrested in February 1994, showed that the C.I.A.'s covert operators had harbored a drunken misfit, ignored compelling evidence of treason and shielded that evidence from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the agency's directors. Then the agency revealed last year that it had knowingly sent reports laced with disinformation, from double agents put in place by Mr. Ames's treachery, to the highest levels of the White House and the Pentagon.
Among those who received those reports was John Deutch, the former Deputy Secretary of Defense who unwillingly took over as Director of Central Intelligence in 1995. In dealing with the Ames case, with the agency's hidden ties to the Guatemalan military, with a botched economic-espionage operation in Paris and other demoralizing mix-ups, Mr. Deutch has meted out unprecedented discipline and set high standards of accountability for covert operations.
While acknowledging the past problems, he said in an interview that citizens and officials had "regained confidence" in the agency's clandestine operations. That opinion is not universally held.
Instead, some senior Administration officials, particularly at the State Department, seem to regard the C.I.A.'s covert-operations directorate as illegal, immoral or irrelevant. "The depth of disdain between State and C.I.A. is remarkable," said Loch Johnson, a former staff member of the Senate and House intelligence committees and author of "Secret Agencies: U.S. Intelligence in a Hostile World" (Yale University Press, 1996). "I know people in State who think C.I.A. is a greater enemy than Russia ever was, and that feeling is reciprocated."
Fewer than 50 top national security officials rely daily on the agency's spies for secret insights. Several of them, unwilling to be quoted by name, said that they were instead offered "high-class rumor" or low-grade facts. One Pentagon official said the C.I.A. had sent him a top-secret interview with a Russian colonel containing information he himself had obtained by talking to a Russian general. Another said he had been sent a grainy satellite photo of nuclear missiles in Ukraine being dismantled days after he had seen the event with his own eyes.
But there are signs of change. Under John Gannon, a new director appointed by Mr. Deutch, the agency's intelligence directorate, which analyzes secret and open information, improved its reports and its reputation by simply asking policy makers what they want to know, and trying to deliver. It did a good job sorting out rumor from fact in the Balkans -- no easy task. And some analysts say Mr. Gannon has fostered a healthy climate of intellectual debate. "It's a work in progress," Mr. Gannon said. "It's a bumper-car progression to a changed culture."
After the Ames case, there was a hue and cry to change that culture from top to bottom, to change the C.I.A.'s mission, to change its name, its very nature, or to eliminate it altogether. But all nations have spied for centuries. The call for change eventually died down. A high-level commission appointed by Mr. Clinton and Congress considered how best to deal with the agency, as did the Congressional intelligence committees and several think tanks. In the end, few of the ideas came to fruition. The danger for the C.I.A. was not that it would be abolished or overhauled. The danger was that the people it served, including the President, would ignore it.

Spending
The Peace Dividend Doesn't Materialize
The great issues of war and peace that give generals and station chiefs sleepless nights seem to matter less and less to most Americans as memories of the cold war fade. Ever since the Berlin Wall became a speed bump in 1989, polls and interviews suggest that people are far more interested in their pocketbooks, schools and neighborhoods than in America's role as the last great superpower. When it comes to national security, they care mainly about a few big questions.
Are American soldiers dying overseas? Not today. Are the chances of an all-out nuclear Armageddon rising? Few think so. Are foreign terrorists blowing up skyscrapers and jumbo jets? The threat remains; some say it is growing. Only one Pentagon issue hits the pocketbook: is the military spending too much money? People remember $10,000 wrenches and $2 billion bombers.
But if they expected Mr. Clinton, as a Democrat, to spend significantly less on the military than a Republican President would have, they have been disappointed. In 1992, the Pentagon's budget stood at $298 billion. Today it is $266 billion, smaller, but not quite as small as Mr. Clinton promised and barely less than President Bush projected.
Mr. Clinton's Pentagon has spent more than $1 trillion, about $30 million an hour, more than the rest of the world's top 10 armies combined. It provided no real peace dividend save the uneasy prevailing peace.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: "Tracking Military Spending" tracks military spending, adjusted for inflation, since 1977. (Source: Office of Management and Budget) (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: NSGP (ENXT-PAR) (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIA (52%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SECURITY INSURANCE CO (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY BANK HOLDING CO (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY FIRE & CASUALTY CO (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY LIFE & ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY SYSTEMS INC (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY GROUP INC (91%); NSC GROUPE SA (54%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (72%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (72%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIA (52%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SURVEYS AND SERIES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; WAGES AND SALARIES US PRESIDENTS (92%); NATIONAL SECURITY (92%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (74%); AIR FORCES (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (70%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (55%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WEINER, TIM; BUSH, GEORGE BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996



659 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE DEMOCRAT;
CLINTON CAMPAIGN PUTS AN EMPHASIS ON FEMALE VOTERS

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, Va., Oct. 27

 BODY:
Seeking to insure a strong turnout from a crucial voting bloc, President Clinton made a special appeal to women today by highlighting Government efforts to fight breast cancer and telling a rally audience in Virginia that the election "is not about party, it's about you."
The President's appearances at the White House and in this Washington suburb today capped a weekend of rallies and organizing by his campaign in 35 states to make sure that women -- the voters whom polls consistently show as central to Mr. Clinton's majority -- turn out to vote. 
 Standing on a high school field in Springfield this afternoon, a blue banner behind him proclaiming "Strengthening America's Families," Mr. Clinton stressed the health care, education and child-based themes that have been central to his campaign and that have a particular resonance with women.
Drawing a contrast between his proposals and those of the Republicans, he asked, "Do we really believe that we would be better off if their vision had prevailed over the past four years?
"Would we be better off if there were no Family and Medical Leave law?" Mr. Clinton asked, referring to a law that guarantees many workers 12 weeks of unpaid leave for family emergencies.
"Would we be better off if we cut student loans instead of increasing them? Would we be better off if we cut Head Start instead of increasing it? Would we be better off if we had not made those 300,000 loans to women business owners?" On cue, his several thousand listeners repeatedly shrieked back, "No."
Bob Dole, campaigning today in California, increased the sharpness of his attacks on the Administration's ethics and called its members a "group of elitists who have never done anything." [Page A15.]
The President's rally appearance in Virginia came hard on the heels of one at the White House where he emphasized breast cancer as a health care issue of particular interest to women.
Across the country, many Clinton campaign workers fanned out to mobilize women. In Arkansas, workers were sent out to seek those who have become the embodiment of this year's swing voters, the soccer moms, the mission being to hand out campaign fliers to mothers at 51 soccer fields. In Georgia and Pennsylvania this weekend, campaign volunteers descended on grocery stores and malls to encourage women to vote.
In tandem with these events, the Clinton campaign went on the air with its most direct appeal yet to mothers, a commercial featuring a baby girl and a voice saying: "Today you'll decide what she eats. You'll decide what she wears. On Nov. 5, you'll decide what kind of America she'll grow up in."
Mr. Clinton began the campaign day by emphasizing a women's health issue. Appearing at a Rose Garden ceremony before embarking on a three-day campaign swing, Mr. Clinton announced that he was shifting $30 million in Federal money into research on the genetic basis of breast cancer. The money had previously been earmarked for other biomedical and breast cancer research.
"Nothing is more devastating to a family's strength than when someone is diagnosed with a life-threatening disease like cancer," said Mr. Clinton, whose mother died of breast cancer. "I know about this from my own family experience, and nearly every family does."
Before he spoke, Mr. Clinton met in the Oval Office with four women who have survived breast cancer and a 9-year-old girl who has fought childhood leukemia. During the meeting he signed a yellow ribbon that symbolizes the nation's fight against breast cancer.
The day was the culmination of an effort by Mr. Clinton to gain back the votes of women who supported him in 1992 but who stayed away from the polls in 1994. The apathy of these women -- in large part young, lower income and less well educated -- contributed to the Republican sweep of Congress that year.
To win these women, Mr. Clinton has moved far beyond the issues of abortion rights and workplace equality that were long at the heart of the feminist agenda, and on to a wide range of matters of particular concern to working mothers trying to balance child-rearing with economic needs. "A lot of the women we're targeting are squeezed for time and for money," said Ann F. Lewis, Mr. Clinton's deputy campaign manager.
Mr. Clinton's emphasis on the Family and Medical Leave Act, for example, with its guarantee of 12 weeks of unpaid leave for a family medical emergency, is said by his strategists to carry particular resonance for women because they are more likely to become the care givers for sick children or elderly parents. Mr. Clinton's focus on Medicare and Medicaid, the Federal health insurance programs, appeals to women for the same reason, his aides say, as well as because women generally live longer than men.
And education, a Clinton staple, also is a prime concern of mothers. "It's the issue that suburban families rate the highest now," Ms. Lewis said. "It's how they make decisions about where they live, and it's also what women think is the most important thing that government does."
Mr. Clinton struck hard at the theme today in Virginia, a state no Democrat has made a priority since 1976, when it was the only Southern state that Jimmy Carter lost.
Without mentioning the Republicans directly, the President asked: "What is their education vision? Abolish the Department of Education." The crowd booed long and loudly. "No word about standards," Mr. Clinton said. "No word about accountability. No word about empowerment of teachers and principals and parents. No word about teaching children to read or hooking them up to the Internet."
A poll released by the Pew Research Center on Friday showed that among registered voters women now favor Mr. Clinton over Mr. Dole by 57 percent to 29 percent, while men support Mr. Clinton over Mr. Dole by 45 percent to 39 percent. The poll was based on a national survey of 1,928 adults, with an error margin of plus or minus two percentage points over all and of three percentage points for results on registered voters.
Mr. Clinton's aides said the President would finish the last full week of the campaign with speeches summing up his argument for a second term, and many of them -- a speech on education planned for Tuesday, a speech Wednesday on economic opportunity especially for women -- are clearly intended to continue the effort to mobilize female voters.

GRAPHIC: Photos: As the campaign verged on its final week, President Clinton visited Virginia and Tennessee, where he appeared with Vice President Al Gore yesterday at Vanderbilt University in Nashville. (James Estrin/The New York Times); Bob Dole, in California, attacked the Clinton White House staff as "elitists" and appeared at a rally in Sacramento. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. A1); President Clinton's message was taken to Louisville, Ky., yesterday, when Vice President Al Gore spoke at the New Zion Baptist Church. He said the President had responded swiftly to arson attacks on black churches. (James Estrin/The New York Times) (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (59%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (59%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA; UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; WOMEN; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; BREAST; CANCER ; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); BREAST CANCER (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CANCER (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WOMEN (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CHILDREN (74%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (74%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (73%); FAMILY LEAVE (73%); ETHICS (71%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (68%); STUDENT LOANS (65%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); AL GORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996



660 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK
Yankee Fans Celebrate . . .
They called it historic, majestic, sublime. They compared it to Christmas morning as a kid or the best birthday ever. They said it was like a wedding or winning the lottery. New Yorkers were gleefully lost among the metaphors yesterday, but any way you looked at it, the New York Yankees were the toast of the town -- and it was strong stuff, like the fumes of that first whisky. [Page A1.]
 
. . . but a Hangover Looms
This may seem like crepe-hanging, what with the Yankee celebrations still in mid-swing, but it is not too early to think about the billion-dollar hangover that may follow. A billion dollars, in the unlikely case that you forgot, is the price of a new stadium proposed for Manhattan's West Side. NYC by Clyde Haberman. [B1.]
 
Tensions at SUNY-Binghamton
Anthony J. Benardello is a 37-year-old former Army Ranger who opposes affirmative action and calls advocates of multiculturalism "white haters" who want "white oppression taught from a leftist perspective." Rush Limbaugh, he says, is one of his heroes. But Mr. Benardello is not a radio talk show host; he is president of the Student Association at the State University of New York at Binghamton. Students and administrators say he is at the center of the tensions over race relations and affirmative action that led to a weeklong sit-in. [B1.]
 
Great Lawn to Get a Facelift
If Central Park's Great Lawn were in a backyard somewhere, the owner might long ago have erected a high fence around it, or perhaps paved it and painted it green. Its surface had become pounded hard as asphalt, pocked with sinkholes and almost totally denuded of grass. Since the 1970's, park officials concede, it has received essentially no care. But starting this morning, a Central Park Conservancy team promises to transform the tattered moonscape into that ultimate suburban status symbol, the perfect lawn. [B1.]
 
The Future of Apple Orchards
Washington State is harvesting what is likely to be the state's largest apple crop, using advanced technology and economies of scale that may make the family-run orchard a thing of the past there as well as in other regions like New York, the nation's No. 2 apple state. "There isn't an apple-growing region in the world that isn't affected by how things are done here," a Washington extension agent said. National report. [A13.]
 
A healthy baby girl only a few hours old was found in a cardboard box outside a Brooklyn apartment building, the police said. [B3.]
 
REGION
 
More Transit Discounts
At the same time that New York City's transit system begins offering its first-ever volume discounts, a new discount will also be given to Long Island Rail Road and Metro-North commuters who are also regular users of the city's subways and buses, transit officials said. The discount, to be offered only on monthly commuter passes sold by mail, will be made possible in part by an innovation transit planners have talked about for decades: a unified regional transit pass. [B1.]
 
NEW JERSEY
 
Zimmer Draws Back From Dole
Representative Richard A. Zimmer, the Republican candidate for the United States Senate, distanced himself from the flagging Presidential candidacy of Bob Dole, joining a national trend in which Republican candidates, trying to limit the damage from an anticipated Dole loss, are acknowledging that it is O.K. to split the ticket. [B4.]
 
Mrs. Clinton Helps Torricelli
Hillary Rodham Clinton came to southern New Jersey, with its large number of undecided voters and suburban women, the most sought-after group this election year, to urge women to vote for her husband and for Representative Robert G. Torricelli, the Democratic candidate for the United States Senate. [B4.]
 
Bayonne Faces a Big Choice
Bayonne's Military Ocean Terminal, 437 acres of prime waterfront jutting into Upper New York Bay, is a hot property. And deciding what to do with the terminal, Bayonne's largest employer, after it closes in 1999 might be the most important choice the well-preserved but unspectacular city of 61,000 has ever faced. One applicant is looking for a good place to dock a quarter-mile-long, 21-story-high, 6,200-passenger cruise ship of tomorrow, or perhaps the day after tomorrow. [B5.]
 
CONNECTICUT
 
Kelly's Court Role: Mint Man
In the courthouse where he is being tried on rape charges, Alex Kelly is in charge of the mints. He ceremoniously offers mints from a fresh roll to his two lawyers as they arrive at the defense table each morning. Next, he offers mints to relatives in the front rows. The offering of the mints is usually Mr. Kelly's last official act at the defense table. After that, he usually sits there. The lawyers seldom confer with him, and he seldom speaks with them. Reporter's notebook. [B6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (50%); NEW YORK YANKEES (58%); NEW YORK YANKEES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (58%); NEW YORK YANKEES (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPLE ORCHARDS (87%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); BASEBALL (73%); LOTTERIES (72%); ARMIES (70%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (69%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (69%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (66%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (65%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (61%); RACE & RACISM (50%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996



661 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: Fight Europe Rightists With Even More Trade

 BODY:
To the Editor:
An Oct. 24 editorial points out a nationalistic, far-right backlash in Europe that is an unintended consequence of the European Union's rush toward a grand federalism that is lacking in grassroots support. 
 Its success has been based on trade liberalization that has improved the economies of member states. While the past decade has seen the rise of a European community spirit among the various nationalities, European Union bureaucrats have been slow to realize that these people are still separate nations in many ways besides language.
The nationalist backlash can range from benign like Britain's Euroskeptics, who oppose more power flowing to the European Union, to the dangerous growing power of the far right in France and Austria that you note in your editorial.
However, Euroskeptics who merely react against those who push for what they believe to be a premature federalism could point instead to a more positive but mundane policy alternative that has been the European Union's success: yet more trade liberalization within the member countries. Supporters of the Maastricht treaty on European unity would agree.
 
GARY L. DARE
Evanston, Ill., Oct. 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%); AUSTRIA (72%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; AUSTRIA; EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%); AUSTRIA (72%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS EUROPEAN UNION (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: DARE, GARY L

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996



662 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1592 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE VOTERS;
Ohio County Reluctantly Tilts Toward Clinton

SERIES: AN AMERICAN PLACE: Rating the Candidates

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP 

DATELINE: CANTON, Ohio, Oct. 27

 BODY:
In this place that votes as America does for President, Bill Clinton is winning the Battle of the Lesser Evils, stealing away Republican support that Bob Dole must have and attracting many of the independents it takes to carry a swing county.
"Clinton's the lesser of three evils," said Ron Patterson, 32, a computer technician, explaining why he was switching his vote from Ross Perot in 1992 to Mr. Clinton this time. 
 "The best of two bad choices," said Dave Klingensmith, a corporate lawyer and registered Republican who plans to vote for Mr. Clinton after supporting George Bush and Ronald Reagan in past elections. "I haven't been real happy with the Dole campaign -- too negative. I associate Dole with Gingrich and the things they were pushing."
"The lesser evil," said Sherry Chaney, a nurse and registered Republican who intends to vote for Mr. Clinton, after supporting Mr. Bush in 1992. She said she felt Mr. Clinton would better protect Medicare and did not believe Mr. Dole's promise of a 15 percent tax cut. She also said she worried about Mr. Dole's age and thought he had been campaigning like a mudslinger. "It's disgusting me," she said.
The one issue that seems to give Mr. Dole the upper hand in a new poll of this bellwether county, the character question, is not resonating strongly enough. Bernie Crilley, 34, a union steelworker at the Timken Company, voted for Mr. Perot in 1992, when he was laid off. But now, he said, "we're working good." Asked why he was voting for Mr. Clinton, he said: "I don't like Clinton's abortion issues; I don't care much for Clinton's morals. But like I said, the economy's been good, and that's what feeds my family."
President Clinton enjoys a sizable lead in the new poll here, with 53 percent of likely voters saying they prefer him, compared with 30 percent for Mr. Dole and 11 percent for Mr. Perot. The poll of 678 registered voters living here in Stark County, which was done by the Ohio State University survey center and The New York Times, was conducted from Oct. 19 to Oct. 24 and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points. Likely voters were defined as registered voters who said they would vote in November.
Mr. Clinton's lead here is similar to the results being reported in recent days in national polls by The New York Times and CBS News (22 points) and CNN/USA Today/Gallup (20 points). The most recent national ABC News poll has Mr. Clinton ahead by 15 points.
While not even Democrats here expect the President to win by a 23-point margin in Stark County, the reaction from the two local Presidential campaign chairmen to the poll results is indicative of the problems Mr. Dole is facing.
Asked about the poll numbers, John Ferrero Jr., the Clinton chairman, said, "That's what I thought it would be." And Janet Weir Creighton, the Dole chairwoman and county auditor, said, "I'm not shocked."
The last time a Presidential candidate carried Stark County by a comparable margin was 1984, when Mr. Reagan, an incumbent President at a time when the economy was on the upswing, collected 60 percent of the vote here. That year, Stark County almost exactly mirrored the national electorate, which gave Mr. Reagan 59 percent of the vote.
Stark County has voted as the country has for President every election except one in the last 30 years. In 1976, it supported Gerald Ford by a narrow margin over the winner, Jimmy Carter.
Several responses in the Stark poll work to Mr. Clinton's advantage. About 73 percent here called the national economy "very good" or "fairly good." Sixty-two percent approved of the way Mr. Clinton has been handling his job as President, and just 13 percent said they were worse off than four years ago.
Unemployment here is 4 to 5 percent, about half what it was in 1992.
Fifty percent of those in the survey gave Mr. Clinton a favorable rating, and 31 percent said their view was unfavorable. In contrast, only 26 percent said their opinion of Mr. Dole was favorable; 45 percent said it was unfavorable. Making matters worse for Mr. Dole, the man he has been so often associated with this election, Speaker Newt Gingrich, was given a favorable rating here by just 14 percent, while 48 percent viewed him unfavorably. Indeed, 55 percent gave the Congressional Republicans most of the blame for the temporary shutdown of the Government last fall and winter; 23 percent said the President was more to blame.
If the results here are not good for Mr. Dole, the poll indicates there still is opportunity for gain by Nov. 5. Although only 6 percent said they were undecided, 19 percent said they "might change" their allegiance by Election Day.
The poll was completed 12 days before the election, when a lot of people still had not turned their full attention to the campaign. While 84 percent of Democrats surveyed said they were voting for Mr. Clinton, only 63 percent of Republicans said they were voting for Mr. Dole, and it seems likely that some of those Republicans will come home to their party before Election Day.
During the six-day period in which the Stark poll was conducted, Mr. Dole scored worst in the earliest days, closest to the final Presidential debate on Oct. 16, trailing by as much as 30 points. He did better on days toward the end of the survey period, furthest from the debates, getting as close as 13 points behind one day.
Since the vast majority of Stark County residents polled who watched the debates felt the President won them -- 70 percent said Mr. Clinton; 11 percent, Mr. Dole -- the more time that passes, the more the debates' demoralizing effect on Republicans could ease.
In recent days Mr. Dole has made some gains in the Ohio Poll, the statewide survey done by the University of Cincinnati. A week ago he was trailing by 14 points, but he is now 9 behind. In 1992, Ohio voted for Mr. Clinton 40 to 38 percent, and he carried Stark County by 40 to 35 percent, almost exactly his national spread.
Low turnout helps Republicans, who tend to be more faithful voters than Democrats, and there are several factors that point to a relatively poor turnout here this time.
Mr. Ferrero, the Clinton chairman, said he worried that the President's lead in the polls might lull Democrats. And Ms. Creighton, the Dole chairwoman, who has a reputation as one of Stark's savviest campaigners, said, "I'm personally hoping it's a horrible voting day, that the weather is bad and people will stay home, because I know Republicans will come out to vote."
Asked if she believed Mr. Dole could win, she said: "You never give up. Anything can change in the last 10 days."
Doug Lane, the morning host on WHBC radio in Canton and a member of the Republican executive committee in the county, said he believed Mr. Dole could still succeed because so many people are bored with this election. "In 1992, I was getting calls on the show all the time from Clinton people, Bush people, Perot people, all worked up," he said. "I don't have any of that this time."
Stark's board of elections director, Jeff Matthews, is predicting a turnout of 72 percent, which would be the lowest figure in recent memory for a Presidential year. In 1992 the turnout was 81 percent.
If Mr. Dole is to gain ground, he must capture an awful lot of Martha Hookways fast. Mrs. Hookway, who spoke in a follow-up interview after being in the poll, is a floral delivery driver. She voted for Mr. Clinton in 1992 and would vote that way again if the election were today. But she may change her mind.
"As far as moral things, I'm conservative," she said. "I don't believe in abortion, I feel Dole is the more decent man, and so in that respect, I'm more Republican -- my heart says, 'Dole.' But we're just a working-class family, and I feel Democrats are more for working-class families. I'm so torn."
Only 32 percent of those polled said Mr. Clinton had more integrity than most people in public life; 58 percent said he did not. Forty percent said Mr. Dole had more integrity, while 43 percent said he did not.
Mrs. Hookway also worries about taxes and wonders if Mr. Clinton would really raise them and Mr. Dole would really cut them. "I really need to know which is the truth," she said.
Most of those in the survey do not trust Mr. Dole's pledge of a 15 percent tax cut -- 27 percent said they believed he would carry out the pledge, 57 percent said they did not.
It is plain from the poll that Mr. Clinton has succeeded in recapturing issues that the Republicans have had the upper hand on for years. The crime issue hurt Michael Dukakis badly in 1988, the year of the Willie Horton advertisement. Yet this time in Stark, 48 percent said they believed Mr. Clinton would do a better job fighting crime, while only 28 percent said Mr. Dole would do better.
Mr. Klingensmith, the corporate lawyer and registered Republican, said that what he liked about President Clinton was that he is "friendlier, livelier, more personable."
"He seems like one of the people and not so much the guy who sits in the Oval Office," he said. "Reminds me of Reagan."
Living midway between Democratic Cleveland and Republican Columbus, the citizens of Canton, Ohio, and surrounding Stark County have a history of voting for the winning Presidential candidate. This is the 33d article in a yearlong series that seeks to explore the forces shaping the political debate at the grass roots. (Previous articles are available to computer users on The New York Times on the Web, at http://www.nytimes.com/specials/canton.)

CORRECTION-DATE: October 29, 1996, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an "American Place"article yesterday about voter opinion in Stark County, Ohio, referred incompletely to a poll conducted jointly by The Times and Ohio State University. Prof. Paul J. Lavrakas, director of the survey center at the university, and Prof. Gerald M. Kosicki of the school of journalism and communication took part in the polling.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Stark County, Ohio Parallels the Nation"
 
VIEW OF THE ECONOMY
 
Rate the national economy:
 Very good 9% (Stark County, OH); 6% (Nationwide)
 Fairly good 66% (Stark County, OH); 62% (Nationwide)
 Fairly bad 19% (Stark County, OH); 19% (Nationwide)
 Very bad 5% (Stark County, OH); 10% (Nationwide)
 
Liklihood that today's youth will have a better standard of living than their parents:
 Very likely 16% (Stark County, OH); 11% (Nationwide)
 Somewhat likely 40% (Stark County, OH); 41 (Nationwide) Somewhat unlikely 28% (Stark County, OH); 32% (Nationwide)
 Very unlikely 13% (Stark County, OH); 13% (Nationwide)
 
VIEW OF THE CANDIDATES
 
Have a favorable opinion of Bill Clinton 50% (Stark County, OH); 42%(Nationwide)
 An unfavorable opinion 31% (Stark County, OH); 34% (Nationwide)
 
Have a favorable opinion of Bob Dole 26% (Stark County, OH); 28% (Nationwide)
 An unfavorable opinion 45% (Stark County, OH); 43% (Nationwide)
 
VIEW OF TAXCUTS
 
If you had to choose, would you:
 Prefer reducing the federal budget deficit 53% (Stark County, OH); 51% (Nationwide)
 Prefer cutting taxes 38% (Stark County, OH); 43% (Nationwide)
 
If Bob Dole is elected President:
 He will cut taxes by 15 percent 27% (Stark County, OH); 57% (Nationwide)
 He will not 28 (Stark County, OH); 58% (Nationwide)
 
Based on a survey conducted by telephone Oct. 19 to 24 with 678 registered voters in Stark County, Ohio. The poll was a collaboration of Ohio State University and The New York Times. National figures are from telephone surveys conducted by The New York Times and CBS News earlier this month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series 

TICKER: TKR (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332991 BALL & ROLLER BEARING MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3562 BALL & ROLLER BEARINGS (84%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: TIMKEN CO (84%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANTON (OHIO); STARK COUNTY (OHIO); UNITED STATES (97%); OHIO, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; SURVEYS AND SERIES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB; WINERIP, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (94%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996



663 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS;
Endorsements for President

 BODY:
A sampling of newspapers: 

FOR BILL CLINTON:
 
"Republicans complain that Clinton has stolen many of their programs and ideas, but what Clinton has really managed to steal is the broad center of the American political spectrum -- a position we hope he will keep during a second term." The Boston Globe
 
"He has vacillated on issues large and small, and at times he has conducted himself like a man with something to hide. Nevertheless, we think he is still a better choice than Bob Dole." The St. Louis Post-Dispatch
 
"Although we believe former Senator Bob Dole is a man of better character, we prefer the vision espoused by President Bill Clinton." The Chicago Sun-Times
 
"The quietness of this campaign may be troubling proof that the public is alienated and apathetic. Or it may be a sign that most Americans think the guy who's been in charge for the past four years is doing quite well, thank you. And he has." The Philadelphia Inquirer
 
"The President has tried to appeal to a diverse nation while Mr. Dole has succumbed to the wishes of those who for the moment dominate his party -- the narrow-minded hard right whose exclusionist agenda would punish Americans who disagree with them on politics, economics and life style." The Hartford Courant
 
Some others endorsing Mr. Clinton:
 
The Asbury Park Press, Neptune, N.J.
The Arizona Daily Star, Tucson
The Atlanta Constitution
The Charleston Gazette, W.Va.
The Concord Monitor, N.H.
The Courier-News, Bridgewater, N.J.
The Denver Post
The Des Moines Register
The Detroit Free Press
Florida Today
The Great Falls Tribune, Mont.
The Honolulu Advertiser
The Las Vegas Sun
The Louisville Courier-Journal
The Mesa Tribune, Ariz.
The Minneapolis Star Tribune
The Nashville Banner
The New York Daily News
The New York Times
The Palm Beach Post, Fla.
The Philadelphia Daily News
The Oregonian, Portland
The Plain Dealer
The Statesman Journal, Salem, Ore.
The San Francisco Examiner
The San Jose Mercury News
The Santa Fe New Mexican
The Sacramento Bee
The Seattle Post-Intelligencer
The Seattle Times
The Star Ledger, Newark
The St. Paul Pioneer Press
The Tennessean, Nashville
The Times of Trenton, N.J.
The Union News, Springfield, Mass.
 
 
FOR BOB DOLE:
 
Bob Dole has "proven himself a man of healthy conscience and wise pragmatism, of grit and mettle under fire and -- most important -- a man who is true to his word." The Chicago Tribune
 
"Mr. Dole also would provide a steadier hand at the foreign policy helm. He knows what it means to send American troops into battle. And once there, he would make sure they were allowed to do the job properly." The Detroit News
 
"In this election year, character is not merely one of several issues demanding our attention. It is the only issue. That makes our decision easier. Bob Dole has character, Bill Clinton has none. So Bob Dole is our choice." New York Observer
 
"Four years ago, this newspaper endorsed Bill Clinton for President. We're not going to do so again. We're opting for substance over style this time. We're opting for a candidate who will sign legilation cutting spending, taxes and regulations, insted of one who just says with a wink and a nod that he's for reform and then fights it." The Spokesman-Review, Spokane, Wash.
 
"Mr. Dole's reputation derives, first of all, from the fact that in Washington, a city not known chiefly for honesty and integrity, he has always been a man of his word. Mr. Dole has been called a pragmatist. He is certainly no ideologue. His strengths are in the art of practical politics, of getting the votes together to get things done." The Washington Times
 
Some others endorsing Mr. Dole:
 
The Albuquerque Journal
The Asheboro Courier-Tribune, N.C.
The Augusta Chronicle, Ga.
The Boston Herald
The Bremerion Sun, Wash.
The Chattanooga Free Press, Tenn.
The Cincinnati Post
The Cincinnati Enquirer
The Clarion-Ledger, Jackson, Miss.
The Columbus Dispatch
The Commercial Appeal, Memphis
The Connecticut Post, Bridgeport
The Corpus Christi Caller Times, Tex.
The Dallas Morning News
The Day of New London, Conn.
The El Paso Herald-Post, Tex.
The Evansville Courier, Ind.
The Fort Worth Star-Telegram
The Greenville News, S.C.
The Idaho Statesman, Boise
The Indianapolis Star
The Kansas City Star
The Knoxville News-Sentinel, Tenn.
The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
The Mitchell Daily Republic, S.D.
The Naples Daily News, Fla.
The New Haven Register
The New York Post
The Norwich Bulletin
The Oshkosh Northwestern, Wis.
The Paris News, Tex.
The Richmond Times-Dispach
The Rocky Mountain News, Denver
The Tulsa World, Okla.
The Wichita Eagle, Kan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (79%); SALEM, OR, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (54%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: DENVER POST CORP (58%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (56%); SANTA FE NEW MEXICAN INC (52%); NORTHWEST PUBLICATIONS INC (52%); SAINT PAUL PIONEER PRESS (52%); SACRAMENTO BEE (52%); SAN FRANCISCO EXAMINER (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (79%); SALEM, OR, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (54%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1996



664 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Peter Hoguet, 82, Lawyer in Cold War Case, Dies

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE 

 BODY:
Peter W. Hoguet, a lawyer, economist and investment banker who figured in a cold war incident -- the defection of Oksana S. Kosenkina, a Soviet schoolteacher who jumped from a window of the Soviet Consulate in New York City in 1948 -- died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 82.
The cause was apparently heart failure, his daughter, Denise Hoguet, said. 
 Mr. Hoguet (pronounced ho-GAY) acted as a lawyer with an anti-Soviet organization, when, in August 1948, he submitted documents to Justice Samuel Dickstein of State Supreme Court contending that Mrs. Kosenkina, who had taught children of Soviet officials in the United States, was being held in the consulate, then at 7 East 61st Street, against her will. She had been ordered to return to the Soviet Union, but wanted to become a refugee from her homeland.
Justice Dickstein ordered the Soviet Consul General in New York, Jacob M. Lomakin, to appear in court the net morning, Aug. 12, and to bring with him "the body of Oksana Stepanovna Kosenkina by you detained and imprisoned, as it is said."
Mr. Hoguet served the order on Mr. Lomakin, but the Soviet Consul defied it, and Justice Dickstein put off further action to provide time for consultations about the matter.
The author Fulton Oursler wrote in 1949 that on Aug. 12, Mrs. Kosenkina, who was being held in a third-floor room in the consulate, knew that at midnight that night, she was to be put on board a ship bound for the Soviet Union.
As Aug. 12 went on, he wrote, she heard a radio broadcast about the legal activity on her behalf. "Now she knew why crowds filled the street below," he reported. "She was not abandoned. Somebody did care! All those people cared! She turned resolutely to the open window. She jumped."
Mrs. Kosenkina, then 52, survived the fall, was granted asylum in the United States, became a United States citizen in 1954 and died in 1960.
Mr. Hoguet was born in Manhattan, attended Portsmouth Abbey School in Portsmouth, R.I., and graduated in 1937 from Harvard College and in 1947 from New York University's law school.
He served in the Navy and the Office of Strategic Services in World War II and was a Washington-based Marshall Plan administrator in 1949 and 1950.
He went on to be vice president and then president of the Econometric Institute, a New York-based economic forecasting organization, from 1956 to 1961. He was a co-author of a textbook, "Business and Economic Forecasting" (1961).
His work in investment banking included being associated with Lehman Brothers for a time later in the 1960's and serving as president of Hoguet Associates, a firm specializing in mergers and acquisitions, in later years until he retired in 1978.
Long active in Republican politics, he was briefly a candidate for the Republican nomination for Congress from the 18th Congressional District in Manhattan in 1948 but withdrew from contention. He was also an East Side district leader in Manhattan and was the Republican candidate in 1968 for the State Assembly from the 64th District in Manhattan but was defeated.
In addition to his daughter, of Manhattan, Mr. Hoguet is survived by his wife of 37 years, the former Sheila Zehntner; a son, Mark, of Manhattan, and two sisters, Eleanor de Give of Southampton, L.I., and Marie Khatami of Manhattan.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 30, 1996, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Monday about Peter W. Hoguet, a lawyer, economist and investment banker who was involved in the defection of a Soviet schoolteacher from the Soviet Consulate in Manhattan in 1948, misspelled the teacher's surname in some editions. She was Oksana S. Kosenkina, not Kasenkina.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (55%); SOVIET CONSUL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (55%); SOVIET CONSUL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); WRITERS (86%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (78%); REFUGEES (78%); NAVIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); TEXTBOOKS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%); 

PERSON: HOGUET, PETER W; PACE, ERIC PETER W HOGUET (94%); OKSANA STEPANOVNA KOSENKINA (80%); JACOB M LOMAKIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996



665 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 2062 words

HEADLINE: Russian Rockets Get Lift in U.S. From Cautious and Clever Design

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD 

 BODY:
THE Russians lost the cold war, but they are starting to win the international race to fire hundreds of new satellites and spacecraft into the heavens, challenging Western rocket scientists and companies for launching jobs worth billions of dollars.
The rise of Russia as a commercial space power is based on engines and vehicles that are simple, reliable and cheap yet often fly circles around their Western counterparts. Eager for an edge, many American companies are adopting the foreign gear and forming East-West alliances meant to exploit tons of thundering Russian metal. 
 "They put more into it," Charles P. Vick, an expert on the Russian space program at the Federation of American Scientists, a private group in Washington, said of the Russians. "They made so many more varieties."
Dr. John H. Gibbons, the White House science adviser, who closely monitors the gear and has quietly encouraged its use in the West, called the Russian work "very ingenious."
During the cold war Moscow perfected possibly 10 times as many kinds of liquid-fuel rocket engines as Washington did, analysts estimate. It clearly tried harder and refined a host of rocketry tricks that ended up giving its engines leads in performance and reliability.
For instance, a single drive shaft often spins both fuel and oxidizer turbo pumps, in contrast to separate shafts and pumps on many Western engines. The step limited the number of moving parts and reduced the points of potential failure. Pressing the innovation home, the Russians often use one of these novel pumps to feed up to four combustion chambers.
Such advances are now starting to pay commercial dividends as private companies rush to launch new generations of communication satellites and as the Federal Government selects a new rocket to replace its aging fleets.
The Air Force is preparing to build the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle, a program worth at least $2 billion. Lockheed Martin, the aerospace giant, is a leading contender for the job, and its candidate rocket is powered by a Russian engine.
"What's going to dominate the field is what costs the least," Marc T. Constantine, director of business development at Aerojet, a top rocket engine manufacturer, said of rocketry's future. "Right now," he added in an interview, "the vehicles that are very cost effective are using Russian parts or Russian designs."
Aerojet, based in Sacramento, Calif., is marketing a Russian rocket engine, the NK-33, that at least two American rocket makers are vying to use for commercial launchings. One company would use it to power a rocket and the other would use it for a reusable shuttle-type space vehicle.
As companies race to exploit the Russian prizes, Western experts are probing, admiring and sometimes imitating the secrets.
Jan C. Monk, chief engineer for advanced space transportation at the Marshall Space Flight Center of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, has repeatedly traveled overseas to inspect the Russian gear. In an interview, he noted how the Russians had mastered the stratagem of routing kerosene fuel around hot rocket nozzles to cool them, improving efficiency.
"We just never thought of that," Mr. Monk said, clearly impressed. "It was outside our way of thinking."
The Russians founded the space age with the flight of Sputnik in 1957, lofted the first man into orbit in 1961 and achieved a number of other manned firsts. Secret military programs, meanwhile, took advantage of the Soviet rocketry lead to perfect generations of intercontinental ballistic missiles meant to threaten the West.
The Soviet arsenal was built almost exclusively on liquid engines, whereas the military in the West eventually abandoned liquid engines for solid-fuel booster rockets, which were deemed easier to launch quickly. Over all, the Russian fleet of liquid fuel rockets was far more diverse than the West's and its rockets were far more powerful so they could hurl heavier and deadlier warheads.
All these factors combined to redouble Russian work on liquid fuel technology. Significantly, the Russians excelled without pushing technological limits -- the opposite of the West's approach.
Moscow often relied on kerosene, an inexpensive fuel that can work at room temperature. In contrast, Washington, when dealing with fluid fuels, used not only kerosene but pushed to perfect liquid hydrogen. This is a costly, high-energy propellant that must be refrigerated down to about 400 degrees Fahrenheit below zero, a temperature that can freeze, shatter or otherwise play havoc with moving parts.
In their hunt for high performance, the Russians avoided hydrogen but sought to perfect higher combustion-chamber pressures, achieving ones for kerosene twice as high as those in the West, boosting the fiery push.
They also managed to take advantage of every ounce of energy. The West tended to use open-cycle engines in which some fuel, after powering large pumps, was dumped overboard even though it was only half burned, forfeiting its potential kick. The Russians tapped such flows.
Their closed-cycle engines, often using a clever process known as staged combustion, begin the explosive burning of fuel in a preburner that powers pumps. That blistering hot residue then speeds into the main combustion chamber, jacking up heats and performance. Today in the West, only the main engines of the space shuttles use this advanced technique.
The strides by the Russians made their engines robust, cheap and powerful.
"Our evolutionary path was more difficult and gave increased performance," said Mr. Monk of the Marshall Space Flight Center. "But what the Russians did was very interesting."
Most importantly, Moscow kept working at it, hard. Apart from the space shuttle main engine, the United States developed no new power plants for liquid rockets after the 1960's.
As the cold war ended, the Russians tried but failed to sell their launching prowess abroad. Western states, fearful of the competition, blocked most efforts, especially as Moscow offered to launch foreign payloads into space from Russian spaceports. Washington, for instance, banned the launching of most American payloads atop Russian rockets.
In contrast, the current wave of activity is characterized by the export of Russian ideas, engines and vehicles to Western states, even as warming East-West relations have begun to ignite a run of commercial launchings from Russian soil.
The White House now says its aim is to aid the shaky Russian economy and lessen the temptation for Russia to sell rocket technologies to rogue states and to nations like India, which it worries might use advanced engines for military missiles.
An example of the current action is the NK-33, which powered Russia's secretive N-1 moon rocket. A colossus more than 34 stories tall, the N-1 had 30 of the NK-33 engines arranged in a first stage with an astounding 10 million pounds of fiery thrust, compared with 7.6 million pounds for the Saturn 5, America's moon rocket.
The mightiest launcher ever flown, the N-1 roared aloft four times from February 1969 to November 1972. All the flights ended in failure, but never because of engine trouble.
Today, the NK-33 engines of the N-1 rocket are being marketed by Aerojet. Boasting staged combustion and other advanced features, they nonetheless run on kerosene and are cheap to buy and run. Extremely sturdy, they are considered reusable. The engines have been successfully test fired in the United States, beginning last November.
Kistler Aerospace Corporation, based in Kirkland, Wash., is working to have the NK-33's power a fleet of new rockets whose engines would parachute back to earth for re-use. The company plans to start flight tests next year and to have a fleet of vehicles by 1999, mainly for launching the new generation of commercial satellites that fly in low orbits to relay messages between personal communication devices back on the ground.
Meanwhile, Kelly Space and Technology, based in San Bernardino, Calif., wants a single NK-33 to power a reusable winged spaceship that would blast into space off the back of a 747 jumbo jet. Motorola Inc., a big player in the communications industry, has signed a contract with Kelly worth up to $89 million to have the winged launcher carrry Iridium satellites into space, where Motorola wants 66 them orbiting and constantly within range of special cellular telephones.
A more powerful and modern Russian engine is the RD-170, a kerosene-fired brute whose design began in 1974. Starting in 1987, the engine helped power the Energia, a Russian rocket 198 feet tall that developed 7.8 million pounds of thrust. In 1988, the rocket sent the Soviet Union's space shuttle into orbit.
Now the focus of wide Western interest, the RD-170 uses staged combustion and high pressures and is so powerful that Pratt & Whitney, its Western vendor, is working with NPO Energomash, the Russian builder, to perfect a model with weaker thrust. Known as the RD-180, the new engine has two thrust chambers and nozzles instead of four, producing half the power.
"These engines provide at least a 10 percent performance advantage over similar U.S. engines," Ted Casner, Pratt & Whitney's program director for the RD-180, said in an interview.
"As knowledge of the Russian expertise becomes more public," he added, "everyone is trying to arrange the appropriate partner that has access" to Moscow's rocket technology.
Lockheed Martin Corporation, the world's largest military and aerospace contractor, has picked the RD-180 to power its entrant into the Air Force's competition for the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle. The Government's plan is to buy about 15 of the rockets each year starting around the turn of the century, with the intent of replacing the Atlas, Delta and Titan rockets.
Separately, Lockheed Martin is having the Russian engine power a new commercial version of the venerable Atlas rocket as well, which is due to make its debut next year.
Routinely, the Russian RD-170 engine powers a Ukrainian launcher known as the Zenit, which is 187 feet tall and carries mostly Russian military payloads into orbit.
In an innovative twist, the Boeing Company, the aerospace giant, is adapting the Zenit and its RD-170 engine for commercial launchings at sea. As part of a multinational team, Boeing is building in Norway a giant floating platform bigger than a football field that will be towed to the equatorial Pacific. The Zenit rocket, unloaded from a 620-foot supply ship onto the floating launching pad, will then blast into orbit, with the Earth's relatively fast rotation at the Equator giving it an extra kick for heavier payloads.
In August, the Sea Launch Company, based in Oslo, broke ground at a former Navy site in Long Beach, Calif., that will serve as the operation's home port. The first launching of the Ukrainian rocket is due next year, and the plan has so far won contracts for 15 satellite launchings.
Experts say such partnerships and deals are increasingly common, with virtually every major aerospace player around the globe involved to some degree. In early October, the French company Societe Europeenne de Propulsion signed a deal with Moscow to study the RD-0120, a Russian engine that powered the Energia rocket's core.
Many space analysts hail the Russian invasion, saying it will promote peace and fuel humanity's reach for the stars. Some credit the Clinton Administration for the trend.
"It's almost unprecedented that one single policy could solve so many problems, both domestic and foreign," said John E. Pike, head of space policy at the Federation of American Scientists. "It lowers launching costs while reducing the danger of missile proliferation."
Stephen Hopkins, a space analyst at Anser, a research institute in Arlington, Va., that closely studies the Russian gear, predicted that "more and more partnerships will develop between companies in Europe and the U.S. and Russia."
But fire-sale prices are destined to end, he and other analysts say.
"The Russians are very savvy business people," Mr. Hopkins said. "Space technology is their premiere technology. They understand that and are very proud of that and will protect that," no matter how rocky the transition to a market economy and how turbulent the world of commercial rocketry may be.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Applications - Adapted RD-170 engine is to be used to loft commercial satellites from floating launching platform, shown in artists's conception at left. A single NK-33 is to power a reusable spaceship that would blast into space off a 747 jet. (Sea Launch Company); Space Race Relies on Expertise of Old Enemy - The RD-170 engine, right, which helped power the Energia rocket that carried the Soviet shuttle aloft, is so powerful that a weaker model is being developed for Western use. (Pratt & Whitney); The giant N-1 moon rocket, which never flew successfully, had 30 NK-33 engines, producing 10 million pounds of thrust. They are so reliable they are considered reusable. (Charles P. Vick) (pg. C1); Powerful Russian NK-33 rocket engine, shown in test at Aerojet facility, is being sought by two companies for commercial launchings. (Aerojet) (pg. C6)
 
Chart: "Russian Rocket For Reuseable Shuttle" shows the flight plan proposed for using the Russian Rocket. (Kelly Space and Technology Inc.) (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (58%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS (83%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS (83%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; ROCKETS AND ROCKET PROPULSION; INTERNATIONAL SPACE COOPERATION AND VENTURES SPACE PROPULSION (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); COLD WAR (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (89%); AIR FORCES (78%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (78%); SCIENCE POLICY (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MACHINE TOOLS (76%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (67%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (60%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (58%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BROAD, WILLIAM J BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1996



666 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Advances Against Yen, But Mark and the Pound Rally

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar touched a nearly three-and-a-half-year high against the yen yesterday, strengthening over unexpected Japanese political bickering that diminished demand for yen.
The yen's retreat also contributed to rallies in the mark, pound and other important currencies, indirectly leaving the dollar mostly lower in global transactions. 
 Currency traders said the main theme of the day was the money flowing out of Japan, as investors seeking higher yielding opportunities elsewhere exchanged yen for currencies needed to purchase assets in other countries.
"The story seems to be there are a lot of Japanese accounts trying to invest abroad,"said Kisoo Park, a senior trader at the Bank of Boston.
In late New York trading, the dollar rose to 114.20 yen, up from 113.31 yen on Friday and nearly 43 percent higher than its all-time low reached in April of 1995. During intraday dealings the dollar hit a high of 114.43 yen, its highest level since April 1993.
The dollar slipped to 1.5190 marks from 1.5210 marks.
The British pound was quoted at $1.6128, up from $1.5973.
"The easiest way to describe it is a continuation of the trend we've seen," said Jack Griffin, vice president of corporate foreign exchange at the New York branch of Fuji Bank Ltd. "As long as the investor flows out of Japan continue, and the interest rate differential remains as wide as it is, there isn't any real reason to be a big buyer of yen."
Traders said selling of yen intensified after weekend reports that Japan's dominant Liberal Democratic Party faces trouble finding coalition partners for a new government, only a week after the Liberal Democrats gained in parliamentary elections but failed to win a majority.
The reports reinforced a view that Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto might be ineffective and was unlikely to create changes that would lead to higher Japanese interest rates.
"Basically, I think the hung Parliament they have has brought a lot of uncertainty," said Jan Alvarez, chief dealer at Corestates Bank in Philadelphia. Coupled with Japan's tentative economic recovery, she said, "the money is just flowing out of the country." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (67%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: FUJI BANK LTD (67%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; GREAT BRITAIN; JAPAN (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (92%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BRITISH POUND (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); BANK BRANCHES (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1996



667 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 71 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Union Head Stole Funds, Officials Say

 BODY:
Prosecutors in Manhattan said that Frederick W. Devine, who until June drew an annual salary of $410,000 as the head of the carpenters' union in the New York City area, siphoned off $240,000 from union funds that were intended to create jobs for unemployed carpenters. 
 They said he used the money to pay for winter trips to Florida for himself, his wife, a female friend and union allies.
Article, page B11.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DISTRICT COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS

ORGANIZATION: DISTRICT COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EMBEZZLEMENT WAGES & SALARIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (87%); EMBEZZLEMENT (86%); JOB CREATION (83%); 

PERSON: RAAB, SELWYN; DEVINE, FREDERICK W FREDERICK W DEVINE (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1996



668 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Trust Fund Ends Fiscal Year With a $4.2 Billion Deficit

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 28

 BODY:
The Medicare trust fund that pays hospital bills for the elderly spent $4.2 billion more than it received in taxes and other income in the last fiscal year, the Clinton Administration reported today. And it is expected to run larger deficits in coming years.
By contrast, the Hospital Insurance Trust Fund lost just $36 million in the prior year and had previously run a substantial surplus for more than a decade. The trust fund was clearly losing money but the size of the deficit was known until today. 
 Democrats and Republicans said the data showed a need to shore up Medicare. Representative Pete Stark of California, the ranking Democrat on the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, said: "We must take bipartisan action in the next Congress to extend the life of the Medicare trust fund. This should be the first thing on the agenda of the Ways and Means Committee in January, no matter who has the majority in Congress."
The $4.2 billion deficit represents the difference between two huge numbers: outlays of $127.7 billion and receipts of $123.5 billion. It was covered by a surplus accumulated over the years.
Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said the $4.2 billion loss was "the largest financial drop in the history of the Medicare program, with the exception of a one-time transfer from Medicare to Social Security in 1983." Congress ordered that transfer to keep Social Security solvent.
"The only solution to the Medicare crisis is a bipartisan one," Mr. Archer said. "That's why our nation will live to regret the fearful and misleading campaign the Democrats have waged over Medicare this fall."
Today's report was surprising in several respects. Just a few months ago the Clinton Administration predicted that the hospital trust fund would lose $8.2 billion in the fiscal year 1996, which ended Sept. 30; the actual deficit was much smaller. The trust fund often loses money in September, but showed a gain of $1.8 billion last month.
Indeed, the Hospital Insurance Trust Fund did not lose money in the final six months of the fiscal year, taken together. It lost $4.2 billion in the first half of the year, and its condition did not deteriorate further. The balance in the trust fund fluctuated, but the outlays equaled taxes and other income over the last six months, so there was no net change in the trust fund.
Chris Jennings, a White House aide who coordinates health policy for President Clinton, said, "The increase in health care expenditures appears to have slowed with improvements in the economy." But Mr. Jennings said the Administration did not want to overstate the importance of a few months' numbers.
The growth of Medicaid spending, for low-income people, also slowed, perhaps because of greater use of health maintenance organizations and other types of managed care. Federal Medicaid outlays rose 3.3 percent last year, to $92 billion, after rising an average of more than 14 percent a year from 1985 to 1995.
At the end of the last fiscal year, on Sept. 30, the Medicare trust fund had assets of more than $125.8 billion. Administration officials said they still believed that the trust fund would be exhausted early in 2001 if the current law was not changed.
Doctors' bills are paid from a different account, which is continually replenished with general revenues and with monthly premiums paid by Medicare beneficiaries. This part of the Medicare program is not in danger of running out of money, because it has access to general revenues, but the cost is growing at an unsustainable rate of roughly 9 percent a year.
In a separate action, Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich today criticized companies that cut back health benefits for retirees. He said President Clinton, if re-elected, would take steps to protect such benefits.
"If these companies promise lifetime benefits to retirees, they should be required to keep that promise," Mr. Reich said.
Labor Department statistics show a steady decline in retiree health coverage by American companies, Mr. Reich said. The Labor Department issued a notice advising workers how retiree health benefits could be cut, so employees could challenge such cutbacks or plan for the possibility.
Even while promising health benefits to retirees, sometimes as an incentive for early retirement, Mr. Reich said, companies often reserve the right to "modify, revoke, suspend, terminate or change" the benefits at any time. Such reservations may be in fine print and are sometimes omitted entirely from the summary of benefit plans given to employees.
At a minimum, Mr. Reich said, employers must make fuller disclosure to employees. In addition, he said, the Labor Department and the White House may propose legislation to compel employers to fulfill any promises they make to employees.
At a meeting with journalists today, Mr. Reich said: "It's a balance. We don't want to deter companies from offering health care benefits to retirees. But it's important that employees who have health benefits promised to them get those promises fulfilled."
Employers say they have cut back retiree health benefits because of the cost of such benefits and because of new accounting rules that require them to subtract from each year's earnings a part of the costs of health benefits promised to future retirees.
Mr. Reich said the proportion of retirees in private industry covered by health insurance from a former employer dropped to 27 percent in 1994, from 37 percent in 1988. Thus, he said, only 4.7 million of the 17.4 million retirees have coverage.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOSPITAL INSURANCE TRUST FUND MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOSPITAL INSURANCE TRUST FUND MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; AGED MEDICARE (95%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); AGING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); MEDICAID (58%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); PETE STARK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1996



669 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS;
In His Own Words

 BODY:

BILL CLINTON
 
Speaking yesterday in University City, Mo.:
 
"When I ran for President four years ago, no challenge loomed larger or seemed more difficult to solve than the deficit. The deficit had soared to $290 billion, a record high and growing.
"In the 12 years before I took office, our national debt had quadrupled over what it had accumulated for the 200 years before. 
 "We worked hard to change that. We passed a tough economic plan without a single solitary vote on the other side. My opponent and others said we could never reduce the deficit. They said we would wreck the economy. They said these tough decisions would bring no good.
"Well, we knew sooner or later there would be 'show me' time.
"And we know now that for four years in a row, we have reduced the deficit. That's the first time a President has reduced the deficit in all four years of a term in the 20th century.
"We know now that our budget would be in surplus today if it weren't for the interest we pay on the debt run up in just the 12 years before I took office.
"I pledged to you when I ran for President that we would restore fiscal discipline to our Government, cut the deficit in half in four years. I said it was wrong to leave our children a legacy of debt and we would never get Missouri and America's economy growing again until we got the deficit down to get interest rates down so that business loans, home mortgages, car payments and student loan payment were going down. We had to get those interest rates down.
"The deficit was a ball and chain holding back our economy. Well, today we got some new good news about exactly how far the deficit has dropped since I took office. . . . The 1996 deficit has been cut to $107 billion. That's a reduction of 63 percent. That's the lowest level since 1981. But when you adjust for inflation, it is the lowest deficit in 22 years.
"Today the United States has a deficit in its budget that as a percentage of our income that is lower than that of any other major industrial nation on the face of the Earth.
"This has meant real benefits to the people in this audience. It means cheaper auto, home, credit card, business loan rates. More business expansion, more job creation, a growing economy, providing opportunity again.
"My friends, America has heard a lot of calls in the several days. I would say that these results prove that these results prove that America is awake and moving in the right direction to the 21st century.
"We are moving toward a balanced budget. We are going to continue building prosperity and creating jobs."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1996



670 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Labor Leader Accused of Looting Union Fund

BYLINE: By SELWYN RAAB

 BODY:
Frederick W. Devine, who until June drew an annual salary of $410,000 as the head of the carpenters' union in the New York City area, was indicted yesterday on state charges of stealing $240,000 from union and management funds to finance a regal spending spree.
Prosecutors in Manhattan said that in the last three years Mr. Devine siphoned off funds that were intended to create jobs for unemployed carpenters to pay for winter trips to Florida for himself, his wife, a female friend and union allies. The expenses, prosecutors said, included $10,955 to rent jet planes for two visits with another female friend, in Rochester, $2,000 a night for 17-day stays in Florida hotel suites for himself and $950 for his wife, $1,500 for numerous dinners with union cronies and $1,300 for frequent golf parties with friends. 
 Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan District Attorney, whose office brought the charges, said that in addition to private plane trips to Rochester, Mr. Devine doled out a no-show $15,000 consultant's job to the female friend whose Florida trip he paid for, "who had a personal relationship with him."
"His extravagant spending of the union's money supported his lavish life style," Mr. Morgenthau added.
For five years, Mr. Devine, 57, was one of the region's most powerful labor leaders as the president of the 26,000-member District Council of Carpenters of New York City and Vicinity. He was abruptly ousted from the post in June by the carpenters' national union on charges of corruption and helping mobsters and their relatives get lucrative jobs at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center at a time when about 25 percent of the union's membership was unemployed.
Mr. Devine, who lives in Cliffside Park, N.J., pleaded not guilty yesterday in State Supreme Court in Manhattan to grand larceny and fraud charges and was released on $50,000 bond. Through his lawyer, Paul Victor, Mr. Devine asserted that the charges had been manufactured by District Council rivals who want to gain control of the union and its multibillion-dollar health and welfare funds.
"This indictment is the chilling result of the D.A. lending his office and prestige to rivals who are being resurrected from the graveyard of rejected and tainted union officials," Mr. Victor said outside the court. The lawyer maintained that the evidence against Mr. Devine came from witnesses who falsely implicated him to avoid being prosecuted themselves on union corruption charges.
Prosecutors, at a news conference, said Mr. Devine had a salary of $235,000 a year as the council's president and $175,000 as a trustee and the administrator of the Labor-Management Cooperation Trust Fund that was established in 1993 to promote work for union carpenters in the city, on Long Island and in Westchester, Rockland and Orange counties.
The $2 million fund was financed by employers, and Daniel J. Castleman, the chief of Mr. Morgenthau's Investigation Division, said expenditures had to be jointly approved by Mr. Devine and Paul O'Brien, the managing director of the Building Contractors Association of New York. Mr. Morgenthau said that Mr. O'Brien signed blank checks that Mr. Devine later used for improper payments that were unrelated to the fund or union business.
Asked why Mr. O'Brien was not implicated in the charges, Mr. Castleman said, "He was not the administrator of the fund or a beneficiary of the crimes."
Prosecutors suggested that Mr. O'Brien would be a major witness in the case. Mr. O'Brien, who represents builders of commercial and residential buildings in the city, did not return telephone calls to his office for comment yesterday.
In a related indictment, Jonni Clause-Stanton, 41, of Oradell, N.J., a former professional golfer, was charged with stealing $15,000 from the fund and falsifying business records. Mr. Morgenthau said that Mr. Devine retained Ms. Clause-Stanton, the woman who went on the trip to Florida, as a consultant to arrange golf parties for union officials -- parties that were never held, he said.
Ms. Clause-Stanton pleaded not guilty at her arraignment.
As president of the carpenters' union, Mr. Devine's decisions in labor negotiations affected residential and commercial construction in the area. His endorsement and financial support also was sought by national and state politicians.
The District Council has been under Federal monitorship since 1994 after Federal prosecutors accused Mr. Devine and other union officials of being tools of the Genovese crime family. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: DISTRICT COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS OF NEW YORK CITY (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISTRICT COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS OF NEW YORK CITY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available WAGES & SALARIES (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (77%); WITNESSES (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); LAWYERS (73%); HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (72%); BAIL (72%); LARCENY & THEFT (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); 

PERSON: FREDERICK W DEVINE (96%); ROBERT M MORGENTHAU (77%); PAUL O'BRIEN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1996



671 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Dow Drops 34 on Concern Over Inflation

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Stocks slumped in late trading yesterday as interest rates rose on concerns that an impending flood of new economic data might upset optimism about inflation.
The Dow Jones industrial average surrendered an early 36-point gain and fell 34.29 points, to 5,972.73, as an afternoon rebound fizzled. It was the Dow's second finish below 6,000 in three sessions and its fifth losing performance in six sessions. 
 Broad market measures also surrendered early gains as bond prices slipped, sending interest rates higher. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond, a key determinant of corporate and consumer borrowing costs, rose to 6.83 percent from 6.81 percent on Friday.
As the flow of major earnings reports slowed, the market's attention shifted to the economic reports to come this week, which include readings on employment costs, the manufacturing sector, and the nation's overall third-quarter growth.
The first of those reports was not due until today, leaving an air of hesitance that was worsened by tax-related selling among mutual fund managers.
Also cooling the market is the approach of the Presidential election next week, which makes investors more reluctant to take chances.
Because of the "enhanced uncertainty" of "whether the House and Senate will remain Republican, you have a lot of people sitting on the sidelines right now," Russ Labrasca, senior vice president at Principal Financial Securities of Dallas, said.
Much of the market's early strength came in energy-related shares, which benefited from news that gasoline prices jumped nearly a penny a gallon nationwide during the last two weeks, according to an industry analyst's survey.
The prospect of even higher fuel prices hurt transportation issues -- the Dow Jones transportation index slid nearly 1 percent -- and energy issues gave back most of the day's gains.
The reports to come this week could provide important signs whether various inflationary pressures have remained tame enough for the Federal Reserve to withhold an interest rate hike.
After tumbling sharply in July because of worries about inflation and interest rates, the markets have rebounded to record levels amid numerous signs of moderating economic growth that have kept the Fed on the sidelines.
Contrary signs of strong growth, however, have added to investors' unease.
"What we're faced with now is uncertainty regarding the fourth quarter," Scott Bleier, chief investment strategist at Prime Charter, said. "We may have a strong second half of the fourth quarter, and that might put a damper on the notion of interest rates staying low."
Higher Fed lending rates would help contain such inflationary pressures as rising production costs, slowing consumer borrowing and demand. But that could hurt company profits by slowing revenues and raising operating costs.
Higher inflation or interest rates, meanwhile, make the fixed payoff on bonds less attractive, forcing down prices to improve the yield.
Declining issues outnumbered those that gained by nearly 5 to 3 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume totaled 383.6 million shares.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 3.66 points, to 697.26, and the New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 2.28 points, to 370.98.
The Nasdaq composite index fell 6.71 points, to 1,215.89.
The Dow's oil-related stocks, which provided much of the index's early strength, ended lower: Chevron fell 1 1/8, to 66, after a brokerage firm downgrade, Texaco fell 1, to 102 1/4, and Exxon fell 1/4, to 88 1/4.
Technology shares had a mixed performance after a report of a possible slowdown in personal computer demand, Mr. Labrasca said. In Nasdaq trading, Gateway 2000 fell 3 to 47 1/4, and Dell fell 1 3/8 to 81.
Transition Systems lost 5 to 8 3/4 after issuing an earnings warning.
 Shares of Electronic Data Systems continued to show weakness after the company warned last week of slower growth in the fourth quarter. It was the most active New York Stock Exchange issue, falling 5, to 41 1/8.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL SECURITIES INC (54%); HIGHER FED (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: HIGHER FED (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); INFLATION (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (68%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); ELECTIONS (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (64%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (61%); 

PERSON: RUSS LABRASCA (59%); JOHN MAJOR (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1996



672 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE DEMOCRAT;
Clinton Hails Drop in Deficit, Declaring 'America's Awake'

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 28

 BODY:
As his quest for re-election moved into its final week, President Clinton today pointed to new figures showing that the Federal deficit had dropped to its lowest level since 1981 and proclaimed, "America's awake and moving in the right direction."
Mr. Clinton's focus on the economy was one in a series of thematic rally speeches his aides say he will deliver in the closing days of the Presidential race to sum up his case for a second term. The addresses are to culminate on Friday when the President -- returning to a theme he unveiled in the summer of 1995 -- plans to speak of the "common ground" that he believes now defines the nation's political center. 
 The President opened his daylong swing through three Midwestern states in University City, Mo., a St. Louis suburb, where he stood before a riotous red, white and blue array of flags, charts and banners meant to show that he had more than fulfilled his 1992 campaign pledge to cut the Federal deficit by half.
Speaking over a distant crowd of hecklers, Mr. Clinton said that four years ago, voters had had to take his pledge to cut the deficit on faith. He continued: "Today there is a record, and we can show you. And that's why they're trying to shout us down because we can show you," he said, playing on Missouri's reputation as the "Show Me" state.
A giant bar graph hanging along the facade of City Hall charted the deficit's downward path. And the pillars of the building bore long arrows pointing downward that carried the slogan: "down 63 percent during President Clinton's watch."
As thousands looked on, two young people called to the outdoor stage by Mr. Clinton pulled a string attached to the bar graph banner, which unveiled a section showing that the deficit had dropped to $107.3 billion in the Federal fiscal year that ended in September. White House officials said the deficit was the lowest since 1981, the first year of the Reagan Administration.
Mr. Clinton never mentioned his opponent, Bob Dole, by name, but he directly answered the Republican's late campaign call for America to "wake up" by pointing to the health of the economy. "America is awake and moving in the right direction," he said.
The President repeated the economic themes throughout the day as he swung through Missouri and Minnesota and pushed on to Illinois, where he held an evening rally in Chicago. Although these states are usually considered an electoral battleground in Presidential races at this time of year, Mr. Clinton is running comfortably ahead in all three.
His aides said the primary purpose of his appearances was to lend energy to the campaigns of Democratic Congressional candidates, including Senator Paul Wellstone of Minnesota, who is being furiously assaulted by his opponent as a liberal. Mr. Wellstone was the only Democratic Senator up for re-election who voted against the welfare bill that Mr. Clinton signed in the summer. Mr. Clinton praised him today as having "a great heart."
Confident and cocky as the Presidential race entered the final stretch, Mr. Clinton's aides did not even bother to refute any of the charges that Mr. Dole has slung the President's way in recent days, as he has questioned Mr. Clinton's ethics and called the Clinton White House the "animal house."
Michael D. McCurry, the White House press secretary, dismissed Mr. Dole's attacks as "serial flailing" and said, "It's increasingly becoming less necessary to respond as the shrillness and absurdity of the remarks accelerates."
At each stop, Mr. Clinton drew huge, boisterous crowds, though there were protesters, too. One woman outside the Target Center sports arena in Minneapolis hoisted a homemade protest sign that read, "Smoke Dope, Dodge the Draft, Cheat on Your Wife, Become President, The American Dream."
Time and again today, Mr. Clinton noted that when he had taken office four years ago, the Federal deficit had reached $290 billion and that the Republicans had refused to vote for the package of tax increases and spending cuts he pushed through the Congress in 1993, when it was controlled by Democrats, to attack the problem.
He praised Mr. Wellstone for supporting that economic plan. "You need to know when we brought the deficit down, there was not a single member of the other party who voted for it," Mr. Clinton told the more than 15,000 people who filled the vast sports arena of the Target Center.
"Well," he added, his voice getting aw-shucks folksy, "Paul Wellstone said, 'I think we ought to bring the deficit down.' " That decision, Mr. Clinton said, seeking to inoculate Mr. Wellstone from the charge of being a liberal, "was the conservative thing to do -- to protect our future, to conserve our people and our resources and get our house in order." The Republicans, however, refer to the 1993 deficit-reduction package as an example of liberalism because of the tax increases it contained.
Mr. Clinton lashed out at the Republican Congress for its budget priorities. He reminded the audience that he had vetoed the Republican budget plan in the face of two Government shutdowns.
"When I vetoed that budget, they shut the Government down and said, 'All those Democrats, they love the Government so much, they'll give us what we want just to get it open,' " he said. "And I said, 'I'd rather see you hurt people for three months than 30 years. No, thank you very much.' "
Even though the Federal deficit has dropped in every year of his term, Mr. Clinton's own original budget plan for the 1996 fiscal year still foresaw continuous deficits in the $200 billion range. The President did not embrace the call for a multiyear balanced budget until months after the Republicans took control of Congress and began drafting a seven-year budget-balancing plan.
For that reason, the Republicans said today that they were responsible for the drop in the deficit. "This is a huge credit to the common-sense Republican Congress which fought for spending constraints," said Haley Barbour, the chairman of the Republican National Committee.
Franklin Raines, the director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, attributed most of the deficit reduction to stronger than expected economic growth, which brought in more tax revenues than anticipated, and reduced spending.He said the spending cuts made in discretionary domestic programs had been "relatively modest."

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton, with Mayor Freeman R. Bosley Jr. of St. Louis, left, and Gov. Mel Carnahan of Missouri, waited to address a rally yesterday in University City, a suburb of St. Louis, during a trip through three states. (Reuters) (pg. A1); More than 15,000 people filled the Target Center arena yesterday in Minneapolis to hear President Clinton, who talked about the economy. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) (pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; MINNESOTA; ILLINOIS; MISSOURI; UNITED STATES (98%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); MIDWEST USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); RIOTS (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MITCHELL, ALISON BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1996



673 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Ex-Suspect Tells of Ordeal
Richard A. Jewell held an emotional news conference that laid the groundwork for lawsuits against those who had portrayed him as the leading suspect in the Olympic Park bombing. Page A12.
 
A Bigger Stock Exchange
 In a plan that would drastically alter the look of the historic core of New York City's financial district, the New York Stock Exchange wants to expand its trading floor with a glass atrium over Broad Street. Page B11.
 
A Worrisome Oil Price Rise
The $4-a-barrel increase in oil prices since June, while modest compared with the surges that led to or worsened the recessions of recent decades, is beginning to worry forecasters. Page D1.
 
Russian Rockets Get Lift
 Aerospace companies in the United States are adopted Russian rocket technology for their future projects because of superior design and reliability, not to mention lower costs. Science Times, page C1.
 
 
Cast of 'Les Miz' to Go

 
In a rare move, a director of "Les Miserables" has told the musical's cast that it will be replaced in January to mark the Broadway production's 10th anniversary. Page C13.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard A. Jewell. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); THEATER (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); 

PERSON: RICHARD A JEWELL (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1996



674 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE THIRD-PARTY CANDIDATE;
Perot Says Inquires Would Hobble a Clinton Second Term

BYLINE: By ERNEST TOLLERSON 

DATELINE: BLACKSBURG, Va., Oct. 28

 BODY:
Ross Perot predicted today that the Whitewater investigation and related inquiries would develop into "Watergate II" if President Clinton was re-elected, and asserted that Mr. Clinton should have done "the responsible thing" by stepping down.
"I think the responsible thing for any President that has this many problems to do would have been to resign," Mr. Perot, the Reform Party's Presidential nominee, told an audience of 3,000 people at Virginia Polytechnic Institute here. "But he certainly is not going to do that. The people will have to make the decision." 
 Mr. Perot then asked, "Is it responsible and in the best interest of our country to elect a President who has the next two years of his life facing Watergate II?"
Although Mr. Perot has rejected the Dole-Kemp campaign's entreaties for him to withdraw and endorse the Republican ticket, his recent attacks on the President's character closely resemble Bob Dole's own latest criticism of Mr. Clinton.
In speeches and other public remarks, starting with his address at the National Press Club in Washington last Wednesday, Mr. Perot has leaned heavily on the analogy of Watergate -- the scandal that forced President Richard M. Nixon from office less than two years into his own second term -- in reciting accusations echoing Mr. Dole's contention that the President is not a leader whom the American people can trust.
Pushing the attack today, to several rounds of polite applause, Mr. Perot invoked principles that guide the Boy Scouts. "A lot of people here must have been in Scouting as children," he said. "Is it asking too much that our President be honest, loyal and trustworthy? Is that asking too much?"
And he exhorted his audience, primarily students: "If you love your country and you love your children, how can you even consider voting for a President who has huge moral, ethical and criminal problems facing him? Just think about that."
As evidence of the depth of difficulties that he said the President would face in a second term, Mr. Perot cited the endorsement that the editorial page of The New York Times gave Mr. Clinton on Sunday.
A part of the endorsing editorial, Mr. Perot noted, dealt with questions about the President's ethical standards. Mr. Perot then read from the editorial, underscoring the section that urged the President to pledge not to pardon anyone convicted in prosecutions arising from Whitewater and other inquiries, and to promise that he, the First Lady and others would cooperate with investigators.
"Now I will tell you," Mr. Perot said, "here's a fearless forecast: You're going to get those promises in the next few days. Then, as you do, realize this before you get those promises. The New York Times is asking for a grown man in his middle age to have a personality change. That is not too likely to occur."
Mr. Perot has long argued that at some point the nation will suffer what he calls a "meltdown," an economic crisis resulting in part from the size of the Federal debt. Should that crisis be at hand, he said today, the nation "does not need another Watergate investigation."
While he hammered Mr. Clinton during most of his 45 minutes on stage, Mr. Perot specifically criticized Mr. Dole only once, reiterating his contention that the sugar magnate Alfonso Fanjul, a vice chairman of the Dole campaign finance committee, had benefited from sugar subsidies enacted with Mr. Dole's support. The Dole campaign has denied that assertion, declaring that its nominee has worked to reduce sugar subsidies.
As his speech neared a close, Mr. Perot invoked a military image -- Mr. Clinton alone among the Presidential candidates did not serve in the armed forces -- to pose a question:
"If you were wounded on the battlefield in no man's land and only had three people with you, the three candidates, which one do you think would come out to get you?"
As many in the audience laughed and applauded, he added, "And which one do you think wouldn't be out there to get you?
"Which candidate," he continued, to further laughter, "would you be comfortable having take your daughter on an around-the-world educational trip?" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REFORM PARTY NATIONAL PRESS (55%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (55%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: REFORM PARTY NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (55%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; ETHICS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; THIRD-PARTY MOVEMENTS (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ETHICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (69%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (66%); PARDONS (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PEROT, ROSS; TOLLERSON, ERNEST BILL CLINTON (92%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1996



675 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS;
Excerpts From Dole's Address on Affirmative Action

 BODY:
Following are excerpts, as transcribed by the Federal News Service, from a speech by Bob Dole yesterday in San Diego, where he endorsed a California ballot initiative that would bar all state-sponsored affirmative action programs.
 Now we've reached another turning point, this time for quality and opportunity in America. And the California Civil Rights Initiative allows the voters of this state to endorse a great principle, the principle that racial distinctions have no place in our lives or in our laws. That's the way it should be in America. . . .
This initiative will not affect the employment policies of private companies. We're talking about the state government, just as we're talking government in the bill that I've introduced. It will not weaken any existing laws against racial or gender discrimination. It will not prevent active outreach in recruitment of minorities. 
 It will, however, guarantee that race will find no significance in the laws of California. It will elevate individual civil rights above group entitlements. It will put the government firmly on the side of equal justice and equal treatment, where it belongs in the first place. And the overwhelming majority of Americans in California believe as I do, that we should promote equal opportunity for all, without regard to race or gender. That's the bottom line.
But at the same time, we believe it's wrong to use quotas, set-asides and other preferences that serve only to pit one American against another American, or group against group. The real focus should be on helping citizens who are economically disadvantaged, to provide assistance based on need and not on skin color. . . .
The California Civil Rights Initiative represents, and it applies, America's best principles. And I strongly endorse it. And today I want to carefully explain my reasons, because I think it's very important for all of us to be careful, because feelings on this issue run high. And it's easy for the demagogues on either side to trade on fear or play on resentment. And this places a special burden on anyone who enters this debate.
Even as we reject preferences, we must also reject prejudice. And even as we oppose quotas, we must also oppose scapegoating and stereotyping. . . . Yet while it's important to be careful, there's a difference between careful and silence. We cannot be silent. The meaning of equal, equality is not just another political debate. It is a first principle of American government. It cannot be avoided any more than we can avoid the Declaration of Independence or the 14th Amendment or the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which I supported. And I view C.C.R.I. as the extension of a commitment I made in 1964, when I voted for the Civil Rights Act. And the purpose of that law is to remove the barrier of race, remove the barrier of race from public life. . . .
But the reason behind it is even more compelling. And let me quote Senator Humphrey. He felt very strongly about this issue. . . . This is what he said: "Our standard of judgment, in the last analysis, is not some brute's power, but an equal opportunity for persons; not groups, but persons. Do you want a society that is nothing but an endless power struggle among organized groups? Do you want a society where there's no place for the independent individual? I don't." . . .
 It is true that many of us in the years following 1964 -- and I did -- supported some race-conscious measures designed to speed the process of inclusion, a measure that was supposed to be transitional, transitional and temporary. But it didn't work. Every time I drive to work in Washington, D.C., or drive down North Capitol Street and I see dozens and dozens of black men without work, I say to myself: "What has this law done for them? Absolutely nothing. Absolutely nothing." Maybe one-half of 1 percent at the top have been benefited.
But this was a blind alley in the search for equal justice. And we should have learned, and I hope I did learn, from it. Programs that started as temporary and limited have become permanent and broad. And it's increasingly clear that such preferences are irrelevant in the problems faced by many minorities: violent crime, the disappearing families.
And most of all, as Hubert Humphrey predicted, preferences have become a source of polarization . . . pitting one group against another group. They have given government sanctions to racial tension, creating distinctions that become barriers that become battlegrounds. . . .
We have seen systemic discrimination against Asian-Americans at California schools and universities. Asian students in recent years have been judged to be, quote, "over-represented" and their numbers have been limited.
Now, don't the defenders of race-consciousness see the sad irony in this? Have they forgotten the injustice of our recent history? America must step back and think about this for a moment. School applications have been denied for the single reason that there's been an Asian name signed at the bottom. . . .
Not only does Clinton oppose C.C.R.I. but he has worked to defend and expand racial preferences, even when states and courts try to remove them. And on this issue, as the Governor said, the President said, well, he wants to mend it, not end it. In reality, the President defends even the most indefensible forms of racial preferences. In 1995, in fact, I asked the Congressional Research Service to identify all the Federal programs that granted quotas and preferences. When the White House found out I had it, they asked for a copy, and I was happy to send it to them; they needed all the information they can get in this place. And then he started this great review. Do you know how many programs he eliminated? I think there are 168 programs. He eliminated one. One. . . .
Preferences and quotas are not the answer, but our nation is still in need of answers. Equal opportunity is an empty concept in neighborhoods occupied by gangs and school where both safety and learning are rare. And you know where some of those schools are. It is also a distant concept in those cases where women and minorities are victimized by specific acts of discrimination. The end of quotas does not exhaust our responsibility to equality of opportunity. It only begins it. . . .
We must vigorously enforce all the laws on the books against discrimination in the workplace. And my administration will make this a top priority. . . .
And I just want to end this on a positive note. We must bring quality education to every child in every community. And I believe the surest route to economic mobility for all Americans lies in the access to a good school. Letting parents choose the best school for their children is perhaps the most urgent civil rights issue of our time. . . .
But we must understand that crime is also a civil rights issue. Forty-six percent of African-American adults say their greatest fear is violence against their children, or children they know. And no one suffers more from violent-crime repeat offenders than the large, silent, decent majority in our inner cities. And no one will benefit more from keeping violent criminals behind bars, which we will do in our administration. . . .
And, finally, we must bring a growing economy to every community. . . . Give people an opportunity to make it in the private sector. They don't need quotas and preferences.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; REFERENDUMS; BLACKS; WOMEN; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTIONS ; DISCRIMINATION AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (93%); REFERENDUMS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); BALLOTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); WOMEN (77%); GENDER EQUALITY (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); RELIGION (74%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1996



676 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE DEFICIT;
Steep Drop Is a Surprise, and a Mystery, Too

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 28

 BODY:
By almost any statistical measure, the reduction in the Federal budget deficit, hailed by President Clinton today, is impressive: it has dropped to its lowest level in 15 years, so low that the United States now has the smallest deficit -- as a percentage of its economy -- of any of the world's largest industrialized nations.
But even Mr. Clinton's advisers, who have been massaging every figure these days into a campaign sound bite, acknowledge that part of the reason that the deficit narrowed so quickly is that the Treasury is awash in an unexpected $27 billion windfall. That is the good news. The bad news is that no one is exactly sure why. 
 "It's a mystery," Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin said today. "We have theories, but no one has quite figured it out."
The most popular theory is that investors, convinced that they have ridden the stock market surge as far as they dare, are beginning to reap their profits, which funnels capital gains tax revenue to the Government. Others note that since most of the increased revenue seems to be coming from individual tax returns and speculate that the swelling of the employment rolls is turning nontaxpaying households into taxpayers. But usually people entering the work force for the first time are not paying big tax bills.
But what everyone agrees on is this: the revenue surge is not likely to last very long.
"There are definitely question marks out there," Gene Sperling, one of President Clinton's domestic economic advisers, said today. "You can't build into your expectations that every year is going to look as good as 1996."
Mr. Sperling also cited some unexpected savings, particularly for health care, but warned, "You can't assume that one-year reductions are going to go on forever."
The annual deficit reached a record of $290 billion in President George Bush's last full year in office. It has declined every year since, and by the end of the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30, it dropped to $107.3 billion. That is a drop of 63 percent.
Naturally, both parties took credit today for the size and speed of the decline. Haley Barbour, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, said the chief reason was the "common sense Republican Congress," which took over in January 1995. But that explanation overlooks the first two years of declines.
Mr. Rubin had a different view. "We started on this on Jan. 7, 1993," when Mr. Clinton's transition team first set the course, he said today. He estimated that roughly $40 billion of the decline arose from "technical factors," including the unexpected drop in the growth of health-care spending. "There is no question, though," he said today, "that 130 billion or so is directly attributable to what the Government did" to create good economic conditions.
The truth is that the good news about the deficit could create future stumbling blocks for both parties. Mr. Clinton's plan to balance the budget by 2002 includes $50 billion in revenue gains over the next six years, which means that the White House assumes that roughly $8 billion of the $27 billion gain will continue. If these assumptions are wrong, the budget would be out of balance.
Bob Dole's economic plan assumes that roughly $80 billion of the increased revenue will keep rolling on over the next six years -- even though the plan calls for a major cut in capital gains taxes, the likely cause of the revenue surge. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TAX LAW (72%); INCOME TAX (72%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1996



677 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Jury Service Less Onerous, Report Says

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN 

 BODY:
Jury duty, long the dreary bane of New Yorkers, has become significantly less onerous, thanks to changes in the system since 1993, with people called less often and for shorter periods, according to a report issued yesterday by the court administrative office.
In fact, the average juror now spends half the time on jury duty as in 1993, the report indicated, and in most counties in the state must be selected for a trial after one day or released from service. 
 Court officials attributed the improvements to several changes made in court procedures in the last several years. They said the expansion of the jury pool, the elimination of automatic exemptions from jury service for many professions and the streamlining of jury selection have produced the most dramatic results.
While officials acknowledged that many citizens remain unhappy with the conditions of jury service, they said that system would continue to improve over the next few years.
"This is a work in progress," Chief Administrative Judge Jonathan Lippman said at a news conference at State Supreme Court in Manhattan announcing the results of the study. "It is not perfect, but it is certainly getting much, much better."
The changes in the New York jury system are part of a national trend of seeking to improve the lot of jurors, according to the National Center for State Courts. Tom Munsterman, who directs the center's program on juries, said New York has joined several large states, including California and Arizona, that have recently begun to change their jury systems.
"I think there is a recognition of the hardship of serving, as well as the importance of jury service," he said. "Many states are looking at what they can do to improve the jury system."
For many years, jury duty has been one of the more burdensome duties of the ordinary citizen, often involving repeated trips to the courthouse and days or weeks away from work. The experience had become so bad that by 1993, the courts were regularly receiving complaints from jurors, Judge Lippman said.
"Jurors are the crown jewel of our legal system, and we cannot operate without them, but for years they were treated as the system's pawns," said Gary Brown, director of the Fund for Modern Courts, a nonprofit group that monitors the state court system. "They were shifted and moved around at will."
At that time, New York State's newly appointed Chief Judge, Judith S. Kaye, began to institute a series of changes intended to ease the burden on citizens called for jury duty. One of the most high-profile changes was the elimination of special exemptions from jury service for groups ranging from physicians to lawyers to podiatrists.
In all, there were 20 groups excused from jury duty when the law was changed in 1993. That change alone added a million people to the state's pool of 12 million. The use of welfare and unemployment rolls to select jurors, in addition to the long-used lists of voters and drivers, added an additional 500,000 people.
"I think the main thing that happened here is a sense of fairness," Judge Lippman said. "I don't think that people complain when they believe they are treated fairly, when no one is singled out for special treatment."
As part of the same effort, the courts also eliminated so-called permanent qualified juror lists, which were lists of people frequently called for jury service. Court officials say the elimination of the permanent qualified lists and the expansion of the jury pool have led to less frequent calls for service.
In 1993, 17 counties in the state, including four of the five boroughs in the city -- Queens, the Bronx, Manhattan and Brooklyn -- had to call people to jury duty every two years, instead of the legally specified four years. Today, only Manhattan and the Bronx remain on the two-year schedule because of a shortage of qualified jurors, with all other counties on a schedule of four years or more. Most counties also have instituted a one-day or one-trial system for jury service, meaning that jurors who have not been selected for a trial are released from duty after one day. Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx are the only places that have not switched to the system because of a shortage of jurors.
The courts have also eliminated the process of jury stacking, in which a juror could be selected for trial duty and told to report back to the courthouse in several weeks. The old system allowed more trials to move forward but caused increased disruption for jurors.
In all counties, the length of jury service has been reduced because of streamlined administrative procedures. In 1993, the average juror served for 5.2 days. This year, court officials said, the average is 2.6 days. Also, jurors can now automatically receive a six-month deferral of jury duty over the telephone without having to appear at the courthouse and request exemption from duty.
Judge Lippman said the courts have also tried to upgrade jury rooms and stress the need for civility by court employees. The courts have contracted with a nonprofit group, the Vera Institute of Justice, to run a complaint line at courthouses. Christopher Stone, the institute's director, said that in the two years the line has operated, complaints have fallen 50 percent. "That is a pretty good indication," Mr. Stone said. "The jurors are still complaining, but they are complaining a lot less."
Outside groups like the New York State Bar Association and the Fund for Modern Courts agreed that the changes to the jury system have been positive. "We are finding that jurors serve less time and there has been a substantial broadening of the jury pool," said Mr. Brown of the Fund for Modern Courts. "Part of what is good about these changes is that they are raising the consciousness of the court system about the need to treat jurors like the valuable resource that they are." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL CENTER FOR STATE COURTS (54%); NATIONAL CENTER FOR STATE COURTS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CENTER FOR STATE COURTS (54%); NATIONAL CENTER FOR STATE COURTS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COURTS; JURY SYSTEM; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION JURY TRIALS (96%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); JURY DUTY (90%); JUDGES (89%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (79%); TRENDS (78%); LAWYERS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOHN JONATHAN J JUDGE (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1996



678 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: An Atrium for the Citadel of Capitalism

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
In a development plan that would drastically alter the look and street life of the historic core of the city's financial district, the New York Stock Exchange said yesterday that it hoped to expand its cramped trading floor with a glass-enclosed eight-story atrium over Broad Street.
The proposal, described to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani by Richard Grasso, the exchange's chairman, at City Hall on Thursday, was first reported yesterday by The Wall Street Journal. The stock exchange has said repeatedly that it needs more space. 
 "Is it doable?" said Fran Reiter, the Deputy Mayor for Economic Development and Planning. "We don't know yet. But it certainly is a unique proposal. It sounded right to me as something that would be exciting and right for lower Manhattan."
Ms. Reiter attended the briefing on Thursday, and said yesterday that she was the only city official besides the Mayor who had been given detailed information by the stock exchange.
While eliciting a tentative thumbs-up from Ms. Reiter, the audacious proposal took other city officials off guard
Joseph B. Rose, the city's Planning Commissioner, said, "Keeping the exchange in lower Manhattan is an important priority, but this proposal raises an extensive series of issues for an array of agencies, including planning, transportation and landmarks."
Under the plan, the exchange's 93-year-old trading floor would be expanded on a platform extending one story above Broad Street, connecting the facade of the stock exchange building with that of the 83-year-old Morgan Guaranty Trust building, directly across the street. Both buildings are protected from demolition or alteration by city landmark designations.
Atop the new trading floor would be a glass-enclosed atrium rising eight floors, giving traders and other exchange employees on the floor a dramatic work space with unbroken views of the sky and neighboring buildings.
But exchange officials said the design of the atrium was not selected to benefit the employees, but to provide an architectural window through which people could still see the historic facades of the exchange and Morgan Guaranty buildings, placating preservationist critics of the plan.
Because it would be just above the street, the new appendage to the Stock Exchange would cut off all vehicular traffic, but would allow pedestrians to walk under it, on Broad Street.
If built as proposed, the trading floor expansion would bring a strikingly modern edifice to Broad and Wall Streets, an intersection as steeped in American history as it is a vortex of global finance. Only a few steps north of the glass structure would be the Federal Hall National Memorial, built in 1842 over the site where George Washington was inaugurated as President.
But if the stock exchange's proposal seems out of character with surrounding buildings, it comes when City Hall and many business people are making concerted efforts to draw more life to the area.
"We are delighted that the exchange seems to be focused at remaining at the financial core of Manhattan," said Carl Wiesbrod, president of the Alliance for Lower Manhattan, a 10-month-old business improvement district trying to attract restaurants and stores to the blocks around Wall Street in hopes of creating more diverse activity in a neighborhood that is desolate after dark and on weekends.
Since the stock exchange is expected to respond to growing demand by foreign investors by increasing its trading hours to 16 or even 20 hours each weekday over the next decade, its continued presence on Broad Street would complement the aims of the Wiesbrod group.
It might also bolster the city's plan, announced last year by Mayor Giuliani, to attract developers to lower Manhattan who would convert old, outdated office buildings to housing. The city is offering property tax breaks and other incentives for such projects.
Although officials of the stock exchange declined comment yesterday on whether they would seek financial incentives from the city for their project, Mr. Grasso has said in the past that it was not seeking the kind of long-term tax breaks that many large corporations have received for promises not to leave the city.
The main incentive the exchange is hoping to obtain, according to people close to the negotiations, is the right to build on Broad Street.
Robert Zito, an exchange spokesman, said yesterday that the proposal had been put together in coordination with the exchange's board, whose members were in support even though they had not yet formally endorsed it.
He said the next step, to be taken before the end of the year, would be to submit a formal proposal to City Hall, which would be reviewed by the Planning Commission, Department of Transportation and Landmarks Preservation Commission.
The squeeze on space on the exchange's current trading floor has resulted from the rapid growth in trading volume, which has more than doubled since 1991, and in the number of companies listed, which has grown to 2,800 from 1,800 in the same period.
Although the growth has not created the need for a sharp increase in the number of trading-floor workers, it has led to a shortage of space for equipment, particularly the electronic billboards that instantly display information on trades.
As business on the stock exchange continues to grow, Mr. Zito it will generate the need for more workers as well as equipment.
He said the expansion proposal, which is expected to cost at least $100 million, is being submitted to the city now so that, if approved, the project can be completed within five years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: This drawing of an early proposal for a New York Stock Exchange atrium featured enclosed pedestrian walkways on Broad Street. In the latest plan, a raised platform opens the street to pedestrians but not cars.
 
Map shows site of proposed expansion over Broad Street 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (74%); JPM (LSE) (74%); 8634 (TSE) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (74%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (74%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (74%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); CITADEL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) CITADEL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); MAYORS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); HISTORY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (63%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; GRASSO, RICHARD RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1996



679 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE REPUBLICAN;
DOLE SEES FAILURE OF THREE DECADES IN ANTI-BIAS FIGHT

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: ANAHEIM, Calif., Oct. 28

 BODY:
Bob Dole today declared that a generation of affirmative action programs, including many he had backed, had led down a "blind alley in the search for equal justice." He said the Government's sole obligation should be to guard against explicit discrimination and provide assistance based on economic need, but not race or sex.
"We can not fight the evil of discrimination with more discrimination, because this leads to an endless cycle of bitterness," he said in a speech in San Diego. "We must fight discrimination with equal justice and increasing opportunity." [Excerpts, page A21.] 
 Mr. Dole made his remarks to explain his support of an initiative on the California ballot next Tuesday that would prohibit state and local affirmative action programs. The speech had the political goal of linking Mr. Dole's fortunes to an initiative -- known as Proposition 209 -- that is doing well in polls in a state where Mr. Dole has anchored his Presidential hopes. President Clinton opposes the initiative.
As he spoke, Mr. Dole went much further than merely attending to immediate political tactics, offering his most explicit and extensive discussion of his opposition to quotas and racial preferences. He described how his views on the subjects had changed over his 35 years in Congress, in which he voted for many of the measures that he now believes were misguided. Then, last year, in one of his last acts as a United States Senator, he proposed legislation to outlaw Federal affirmative action programs based on race and sex. The measure was ultimately shelved by fellow Republicans.
"We believe it's wrong to use quotas, set-asides and other preferences that serve only to pit one American against another American," Mr. Dole told an overwhelmingly white, invitation-only audience that had been assembled by local Republican organizers. "The real focus should be on helping citizens who are economically disadvantaged, to provide assistance based on need, not on skin color."
"A Dole Administration will try to be guided by certain basic principles," he said. "We will not discriminate by race. Discrimination is wrong. We will not discriminate by race. We will defend a vision of individual equality in Congress and the courts, because individuals matter more than racial categories."
Mr. Dole's speech today came amid signs of turmoil within the Dole campaign about what to do and where to go. Mr. Dole is known for taking control of his campaigns when things turn bad, and by all indications, that has occurred as he enters the last week of the campaign.
As of this afternoon, Mr. Dole and his aides were unsure where the candidate would decide to spend the next night. (The options included New Orleans, Washington or Denver.)
By contrast, though, Mr. Dole's speech this morning today was noteworthy in its focus: after a weekend in which Mr. Dole has ricocheted from attack to attack on the President and the news media, he devoted 30 minutes to a sober and tightly argued presentation of his view on affirmative action.
Mr. Dole left out the ever harsher criticism of Mr. Clinton and the news media that have become staples of his speeches. But he returned to those themes in an interview with CNN, saying that there is a "little tilt to the left" among news organizations and, as he has for the last several days, singling out The New York Times for special criticism. "They hammer us on a daily basis," he said. "We make a major speech, they bury it back in Section D. They put a front page story that Bob Dole and Jack Kemp didn't get along together."
Mr. Dole argued that his support of the California initiative was a logical extension of his support of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, for which he voted as a House member and which barred discrimination in public accommodations, employment and programs that get Federal support. Mr. Dole said programs since then had gone beyond the goal of simply trying to protect minorities from discrimination and had instead used tactics like quotas and preferences in hiring and awarding contracts.
Those, he said, had become a "source of polarization" in American society, and had "given Government sanctions to racial tension."
He had supported an effort which was supposed to be "transitional and temporary," he continued, "but it didn't work. Every time I drive to work, in Washington, D.C., or drive down North Capitol Street, I see dozens and dozens of black men, without work, I say to myself: 'What has the law done for them?' Absolutely nothing. Absolutely nothing."
North Capitol Street runs north from the Capitol through some of Washington's more impoverished neighborhoods. Mr. Dole lives at the Watergate, in one of the city's more elegant neighborhoods, and there is, generally speaking, little visible evidence of poverty between that part of the city and where he used to work.
Mr. Dole's speech today reflects a final, if late, conclusion on a long debate within Mr. Dole's camp, over how much he should focus on socially divisive issues. Mr. Dole had resisted discussing these issues for most of the campaign, concerned that any gain it might bring him in California would be countered by losses in other states or among women, who are helped by some of these programs.
However, once he decided to base his strategy for winning the Presidency on fighting for this state's 54 electoral votes, he bowed to California advisers who have long pressed him to talk both about affirmative action and immigration restrictions.
In raising the issue, Mr. Dole said he was choosing his words carefully because it was so emotional. "It is easy for the demagogues on either side to trade in on fear," Mr. Dole said.
He did not mention it, but Mr. Dole received a reminder of just how contentious this issue is as he entered the conference hall where he spoke in San Diego, running a largely hostile gauntlet that included Clinton supporters and opponents of Proposition 209 who jeered at Mr. Dole as he made his way through. At one point, he spotted a knot of supporters in the crowd and stopped to shake their hands, but was urged on by obviously concerned Secret Service agents.
Mr. Dole's speech today represented a tactical about-face as much for him as for his running mate, Jack Kemp. A month ago, Mr. Kemp told reporters that while he had come to support the initiative, "We are not going to campaign on a wedge issue" that could divide people.
Mr. Kemp joined Mr. Dole for an appearance in this normally solid Republican community in Orange County, where Mr. Dole's aides acknowledge that the race between him and Mr. Clinton is distressingly close. But Mr. Kemp was spared any immediate discomfort. Mr. Dole did not mention affirmative action in the course of his remarks here.
Proposition 209 would bar state and local governments from using quotas or preferences based on race, ethnicity and sex in hiring, in the awarding of government contracts and admission to public colleges and universities. It would not affect private employers.
A survey by The Los Angeles Times published on Friday found that 54 percent of likely voters supported the measure, 31 percent opposed it, and 15 percent were undecided. Mr. Clinton has said he opposes it because he sees value in having some programs -- though not quotas -- to provide an edge to minorities who are discriminated against. It is not, however, an issue Mr. Clinton raises in his campaign appearances.
Mr. Dole listed instances during the Clinton Presidency in which the Justice Department had argued in favor of preferences. Mr. Dole warned that Mr. Clinton, if re-elected, would work against the California initiative.
"There is no doubt that if there should be a second Clinton Administration," Mr. Dole said, to a quick standing ovation, "it would do everything in its power to undermine 209."
That said, the issue is politically problematic for Mr. Dole as well, since it threatens to worsen his already weak standing with women.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Dole with his wife, Elizabeth, and Gov. Pete Wilson of California after addressing a rally in San Diego. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; REFERENDUMS; DISCRIMINATION; BLACKS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); WOMEN ; ELECTIONS AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (95%); REFERENDUMS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); LEGISLATION (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1996



680 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Don't Surrender to Lower Housing Standard

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Back off on enforcing New York City's housing codes: that's Peter D. Salins's answer to the miserable housing conditions of hundreds of thousands of impoverished immigrants (Op-Ed, Oct. 26). If his prescription sounds familiar, that's because it is like frequently heard advice to go along with sweatshops and minimum-wage violations, since those are means of giving low-skilled immigrants a foothold and of preserving small businesses. 
 Both approaches involve public assent to the lowering of hard-won standards that are morally and economically crucial. Better management of immigration itself, not surrender to third world working and housing standards, must be this nation's response to the squalor that threatens low-income immigrants and natives alike.
 
DAVID SIMCOX
Louisville, Ky., Oct. 28, 1996
 
The writer is policy-board chairman of the Center for Immigration Studies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR IMMIGRATION STUDIES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR IMMIGRATION STUDIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING IMMIGRATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (55%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (55%); 

PERSON: SALINS, PETER D; SIMCOX, DAVID PETER D SALINS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996



681 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Soweto Journal;
Who Counts in South Africa? Finally, Everyone

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: SOWETO, South Africa, Oct. 25

 BODY:
"Yes, I've been counted this time," said Jabulani Mhlambi, 25, a citizen of this vast city inhabited by a soon-to-be-determined number of people. "I was counted last time, too," he added, pointing skyward. "By airplane."
He wasn't joking. The last time South Africa held a census, Soweto was counted by aerial photograph: count the shacks and multiply by four. 
 This time, the process is more detailed. In Maria Matsimpi's tiny fiberglass-roofed living room, where every piece of furniture has a lace antimacassar on it and Rodin's "Kiss" shares the bookcase with African National Congress flags, two enumerators sat for half an hour filling out the form with her.
How much money did the seven people who lived in these four rooms make? What churches do they belong to? What languages do they speak? Does she cook with gas, electricity, kerosene, wood, coal, candles or animal dung? Does the house have a flush toilet, pit latrine, bucket or none?
"It's O.K., all these questions," she said afterward. "Because maybe it will help the Government build homes."
South Africa is in the middle of its first true census.
In the past, there have been whites-only censuses, aerial censuses, censuses of nominally independent homelands like Venda and Bophuthatswana, and various partial samplings and estimates. But never before have all South Africans been counted, nor has such a wealth of detail about income, education, birth rates, national origins, employment and housing conditions been gathered.
The reconstruction of this country after decades of neglect of the nonwhite population depends on it. Essop Pahad, the Cabinet deputy minister in charge of the count, said grandly that it "will provide the statistical platform from which to launch South Africa's social and economic liberation." By that he meant that everything from where to lay water pipes to where to start small-business assistance programs will be guided by it.
Moreover, there's the chance to solve South Africa's addiction to shaky statistics. Figures, correct or not, are quoted quite freely in news reports here, and take on lives of their own: The murder rate is routinely said to be five times America's. Unemployment among blacks is estimated by some at 50 percent, by others at 20 percent. Soweto has two million people in it -- or four million, or six.
"Population statistics have been a major Achilles heel," said Dennis Dykes, chief economist for Nedcor, one of the country's largest bank holding companies. Financial numbers here are generally accurate, he said, but when they're crunched on a per capita basis, things fall apart. "For years, we haven't really known what the unemployment rate is," he said.
The census began Oct. 10 and is scheduled to end on Thursday, although some areas, including Johannesburg and the Eastern Cape and Northern Provinces, are behind schedule.
Soweto is actually a bit ahead. So many people signed up to be enumerators that some were transferred elsewhere. "The rate of unemployment here is very high," said Simon Mokoatle, the regional manager.
About $81 million has been budgeted for the count, which the Central Statistical Service says works out to $1.77 per person -- a calculation that seems to presume that the population will turn out to be 46 million, not the 41 million it is usually said to be now.
Because little of that money went for big advertising campaigns like those that herald censuses in the United States, many people were surprised by the arrival on their doorsteps of enumerators in lemon yellow fishnet vests bearing forms, a smile and a polite mention that failure to fill them out is a crime.
But other ways of reaching out, particularly to the poorest of the poor, were used. Street children, lured by tables of food, were counted the first night. In men's hostels, enumerators sought out the "nkosis" -- chiefs -- and in squatter camps, members of informal "city councils." On the first morning, there were 40 "dawn gumbas" -- street parties with barrel fires, drinks and bands to get the word out.
Different neighborhoods find different questions touchy. Residents of the wealthy white suburbs on his beat are reluctant to answer the income questions, said Luke Ngenwa, an enumerator. And they seem puzzled about the four separate questions about how many living children a woman has.
"That's because infant mortality is still high in rural areas," said Marinda de Lange, a spokeswoman for the census. "We tell them that mapping the country includes fertility rates, and we need to know where more clinics are needed."
In Soweto, people are more reluctant to disclose what church they belong to or what business they're in. Census officials say they get better than 95 percent cooperation, but the few who do resist do so either because they are illegal immigrants or because they do not belong to the African National Congress and think of all Government functions as Congress efforts.
When someone refuses, the enumerator is legally entitled to return with the police, but normally returns with a supervisor instead. "We don't want to create enmity with the people," said Stephen Ziqubu, controller for the Orlando district in Soweto. If it's simply fear, especially when a woman refuses to open the door to a man, a female enumerator is sent.
In Soweto, enumerators usually head straight for the back door, which is commonly the main entrance to the house and lets them see how many shacks or rooms are in the backyard.
By contrast, in the white suburbs, Mr. Ngenwa said, he is often left standing at the gate while the gardener is sent down the driveway to speak to him. Since he's a student from Zambia and speaks Bemba, which is only marginally related to South Africa's major black languages, he then must negotiate in English to see the owner of the house.
There have been a few ugly incidents that got wide publicity. One real enumerator was accused of rape. A fake one was shot in the stomach as he tried to force his way into a home.
But the count has gone on. The first results -- including, presumably, a definitive answer to how many people live in Soweto -- are expected in January.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maria Matsimpi held her daughter, Sibongile, as she answered a census enumerator's questions at her home in Soweto yesterday. Her son, Sandile, watched as the first full count of all South Africans was conducted. (John Liebenberg for The New York Times)
 
Map of South Africa showing the location of Soweto's. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; SOWETO (SOUTH AFRICA); SOUTH AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: CENSUS; POPULATION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CENSUS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (73%); CRIME RATES (72%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); TRENDS (67%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (66%); HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (66%); MURDER (63%); SMALL BUSINESS (61%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (60%); POPULATION SIZE (58%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (56%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); 

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996



682 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Off From High vs. Yen And Lower Against the Mark

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar briefly touched a three-and-a-half-year high near 115 yen yesterday but ended mostly weaker, falling to its lowest level against the German mark in five weeks.
A prediction by Secretary of the Treasury Robert E. Rubin of a stronger dollar, coupled with statements by German central bankers suggesting that interest rates there would fall no further and might rise, were the main forces influencing the dollar's activity in the foreign exchange market. 
 Mr. Rubin provoked a spree of dollar-buying in early Asian trading after an interview on CNN, in which he discussed the reduced American budget deficit and forecast "a higher dollar coming out of this."
The dollar reached an intraday high of 114.88 yen, the strongest since April 1993, before traders sold the currency as a senior Japanese economic aide said a dollar-yen exchange rate of 114 yen was realistic. The remarks, by Shinpei Nukaya, a vice minister of Japan's Economic Planning Agency, were made at a lunch with foreign journalists in Tokyo.
"I think we had pushed the dollar up to some attractive levels and people started locking in some profits," said Dennis Pettit, foreign exchange manager at the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan's New York branch.
Late in New York trading yesterday afternoon, the dollar cost 114.34 yen, down from its intraday high but up from 114.20 yen on Monday. It sold at 1.5100 marks, down from 1.5190 on Monday and the lowest since Sept. 24. The British pound fetched $1.6070, down from $1.6128.
Dealers attributed the dollar's weakness against the mark largely to fresh hints that the Bundesbank would keep interest rates stable, countering speculation that the central bank might ease rates to stimulate the German economy.
Hans-Jurgen Kobnick and Olaf Sievert, both members of the Bundesbank's policy-making council, told separate conferences in Europe that they saw no reason for further declines in German interest rates.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with those late Monday included: 1.2562 Swiss francs, down from 1.2609; 5.1100 French francs, down from 5.1330, and 1,515.00 Italian lire, down from 1,521.30. The Canadian dollar fetched 74.38 American cents, compared with 74.40 cents on Monday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); BUDGETS (72%); BRITISH POUND (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (55%); 

PERSON: ROBERT E RUBIN (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996



683 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 4; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: From 'Les Miserables' To Just Plain Miserable

BYLINE: By MEL GUSSOW 

 BODY:
A sweeping change in the cast of "Les Miserables," with many actors suddenly dismissed from their roles, has left the company confused and upset. Some have been in the cast for years and thought of themselves as having continuing employment. With the announcement on Sunday that they would lose their jobs on Jan. 26, they will be looking for work, reading Backstage and going to auditions for other shows.
Joel Robertson joined the ensemble of the musical in February 1988, a year after it opened. This means that when he gives his last performance, he will have been in the show for nine years. The letter of termination was "staggering, to say the least," he said. 
 Mr. Robertson, 45, is a working professional who had thought of acting as a career with stability. Before he joined "Les Miserables," he was in the original cast of "Cats" for five and a half years. He is married, with two children and a house in Clifton, N.J. -- and a mortgage.
With income earned from "Les Miserables," he managed to start an acting conservatory in Clifton with his wife, Kathleen Kellaigh, and Robert Sapoff, one of the stars of the revival of "The Cocoanuts." The Robertson family is accustomed to long runs. Ms. Kellaigh acted in the television soap opera "The Guiding Light" for two and a half years.
In a telephone interview yesterday, Mr. Robertson made it clear that he loved "Les Miserables" as a show and that he believed he was making a valuable contribution to it. He plays more than a dozen supporting roles, including a factory foreman, a student named Combeferre, a convict, a farmer and a bartender. When he is offstage, he is making one of his 16 costume changes, preparing to rush back onstage. With pride, he said, "I think I have done more 'Les Miz' than anybody in the world."
For him, the musical has been "a wonderful platform," allowing him to be seen, to work at his craft and also to have a normal life. In contrast to many actors who, necessarily, do not work for long periods, he is not a familiar face at the unemployment office.
Officially a member of the chorus, Mr. Robertson has a so-called pink contract, which means he cannot be fired except for "just cause." The change at "Les Miserables" runs counter to that contract, which is why Cameron Mackintosh, the producer of the show, is offering financial compensation to the actors: $25,000 for those in the chorus who are being dismissed.
Many in the cast will be affected, including two of the three principals and at least three who are members of the chorus with featured roles. There will be a new Jean Valjean and a new Fantine, with Ivan Rutherford moving back to his role as the Innkeeper after temporarily playing Valjean. Florence Lacey, currently playing Fantine, will leave the show. Of the three principals, only Christopher Innvar, who plays Javert, has been invited to remain in his role.
There will be a new Marius, Cosette, Thenardier and Madame Thenardier. (Her role is being played by an understudy and was already open for recasting.) This means that Tom Donoghue, Tamra Hayden and Drew Eshelman will be looking for work, along with actors like Mr. Robertson who play smaller roles. Those who play Eponine and Enjolras, the leader of the student revolution, remain question marks.
Actors in the current cast may be invited to audition, but may not be asked to play the same roles. Christeena Michelle Riggs is in the undecided category. She has not yet been told if she will be part of the new company. If she is, there is no guarantee she will be recast as Eponine. In any case, there will be a very extensive audition process.
Ms. Lacey, who has been in the show for only six weeks, is one of three on a principal contract. This means that employment can be terminated at the end of the contract, which can run from four weeks to one year (in her case, for three months, expiring Dec. 8). At the same time, a principal could also ask to leave the show at the end of that contract.
"It was, of course, heartbreaking and humiliating," said Ms. Lacey, who added that she would have stayed on if she had been invited to do so. She said that she was "frightened about what it would mean to other actors in other productions."
In making the announcement about the new company, Mr. Mackintosh tried to offer the most salutary spin, saying that he wanted "a completely refreshed production" to take the show "into the 21st century." He and John Caird, co-director of the musical with Trevor Nunn, had seen the show in September and were disappointed by the performance.
Alan Wasser, the general manager, said a careful evaluation was made of each actor and decisions about which ones to release, rehire or re-evaluate. Mr. Caird said the change was being made to combat "long-run-itis."
The musical's national company will take over the show on Broadway beginning on Jan. 28. Starting on March 12, the 10th anniversary of the musical's New York opening, the new cast will perform at the Imperial Theater.
After Mr. Robertson received his letter of dismissal, he immediately left the theater and drove to his conservatory. He read the letter to his acting students. On the basis of his experience, he told them, "you've got to be nuts to want to be actors." He said the students were sympathetic to his situation but were still eager to enter the profession.
"You can't squash somebody's dream like that," he said. As for himself, he plans to begin auditioning. Today, he and the other members of the "Miz" family are scheduled to give two performances.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Donoghue, top, and Drew Eshelman are among cast members dismissed. (Photographs by Joan Marcus/"Les Miserables")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MISERABLES, LES (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); NEW JERSEY, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS DISMISSALS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); THEATER (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); INTERVIEWS (71%); 

PERSON: MACKINTOSH, CAMERON; ROBERTSON, JOEL; GUSSOW, MEL JOEL ROBERTSON (90%); FLORENCE LACEY (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996



684 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Interest Rates Drop Sharply In Bond Rally

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities reached their highest levels in six months yesterday, as new data on employment costs and consumer confidence increased investors' expectations that inflation would not accelerate.
Interest rates, which move in the opposite direction from prices, made their sharpest drop in more than a year. The 30-year bond surged 1 30/32 to a price of 100 29/32 to yield 6.68 percent, down from 6.83 percent on Monday and the lowest since April 4, when it was 6.67 percent. 
 Matthew F. Alexy, chief market strategist at CS First Boston, said the 30-year bond had not rallied this much since June 13, 1995, when the yield also declined 15 basis points. At that time a weak retail sales report raised expectations that the Federal Reserve would cut rates, which it did in July 1995.
While many believe that the Fed will maintain a bias toward a future tightening -- but not necessarily next month -- a few are starting to speculate that as a result of yesterday's economic data, the central bank might shift to a neutral bias.
Kim Rupert, an economist with MMS International, San Francisco, said, "Given the data seen today, it would take an incredibly negative payroll report to derail the market, and the median estimates are not close to being strong enough to do that."
She predicted the market rally would continue. Ms. Rupert estimates the employment number will increase by 175,000, while the median estimate is for a rise of 195,000. For the current mood to sour, she said, it would take a combination of an increase of 300,000 jobs, a gain of five-tenths of a percent in average hourly earnings and a decline in the unemployment rate.
Adding to the market's bullish mood yesterday, both the Commodity Research Bureau index and the Goldman, Sachs commodities index registered huge drops. Large declines in prices of metals and oils pulled down commodity prices as a whole and lessened inflation fears even further.
But the most significant economic release yesterday was the Employment Cost Index for September, which showed a subdued 2.8 percent year-over-year rise, easing concerns over inflation. The Labor Department reported the index was up six-tenths of a percent in the third quarter, less than its gain of eight-tenths of a percent in the second quarter.
"The favorable E.C.I. statistic," said Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, "not only adds further credence to the view of an unchanged monetary policy at the Federal Open Market Committee meeting in November, but also opens up the possibility, if supported by upcoming data, that the Fed could move to a neutral stance."
Mr. Fine said the yield curve, or the spread between the longest maturity and the shorter maturities, was moving in this direction; the Federal funds rate, which banks charge each other for overnight loans, and the yield on the two-year note are now much closer to a "neutral Fed," as opposed to suggesting that the Fed will tighten, he said.
Mr. Fine said the drop in the Consumer Confidence Index during October, as reported by the Conference Board, further buoyed the bond market, because it suggested that there was less pressure in the labor market. The percentage of respondents reporting "jobs plentiful" declined, while the percentage reporting "jobs hard to get" increased.
Marilyn Schaja, an economist with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said the weakened consumer confidence indicated there would be a reluctance on the part of consumers to buy automobiles, homes or major appliances during the next six months.
Today the attention will focus on the gross domestic product for the third quarter and on September new- home sales, which may also promote the positive tone in the market.
The Treasury is expected to announced today the size of its coming quarterly refunding, which will include 3-year and 10-year notes and a 30-year bond.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTEREST RATES BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (89%); INFLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); METALS MARKETS (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); STOCK INDEXES (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); YIELD CURVE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (70%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); RETAIL SALES (54%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DONALD J FINE (69%); KIM RUPERT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996



685 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS;
In His Own Words

 BODY:

BILL CLINTON
 
Speaking yesterday at Ohio State University in Columbus:
 
"Think what it would mean for America if every 8-year-old in this country could hold up a book and say, 'I can read this all by myself.'
 "The next thing we have to do is to hook up every classroom and library in America to the Internet by the year 2000. You know, four years ago, nobody but nuclear physicists had ever heard of the Internet. Today, even my cat, Socks, has his own Web page. Now, I'm amazed at that.
 "I meet kids all the time who have been talking to my cat on the Internet.
 It's an amazing thing. By the time a child born today is old enough to read, there will be 100 million people on the Internet. We must connect all of our classrooms and libraries to that information superhighway by the year 2000.
"You know, we heard a lot of talk from the other side about fiscal responsibility. And you heard Senator Glenn say that the deficit's gone down in all four years of this Administration for the first time -- he said since President Truman. Actually, President Truman had to raise the deficit one year because of the war in Korea.
 "This is the first time in the 20th century in all four years of a President's administration the deficit's gone down. And that's a good thing for America.
 "It means lower interest rates, lower credit card rates, car payment rates, home mortgage payments. It's moving us in the right direction.
 "We're moving from a welfare system based on dependence to one based on independence. The welfare rolls are nearly two million smaller than they were four years ago.
 "Inconvenient for those who would shout down speakers, but it is. Two million.
 "Now this welfare reform bill gives us a chance to move people forever from welfare to work, but we still have to create jobs. If you're going to tell people you've got to go to work if you're able-bodied, there has to be work there for them to go to."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); OHIO, USA (92%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION; ELECTION ISSUES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LIBRARIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (66%); KOREAN WAR (66%); CREDIT CARDS (64%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (56%); JOB CREATION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996



686 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: In Turnabout For Workers, Wages Grow More Slowly

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 29

 BODY:
Despite the strongest labor market in at least seven years, the growth of American workers' wages and benefits slowed in the third quarter, the Government reported today. The slowdown partly undercut earlier indications that workers were beginning to enjoy increases in pay that outpaced the rise in the cost of living.
The Employment Cost Index, the broadest and probably most accurate compensation gauge, climbed just six-tenths of 1 percent in the third quarter, the lowest reading in a year, as wage and salaries as well as fringe benefits slackened, the Labor Department found. 
 The report touched off a rally in fixed-income securities that pushed interest rates down sharply for all but the shortest-term issues. The cheer from the bond market, which has been on the lookout for signs of inflation but has so far found little to worry about, was reinforced by a report 90 minutes later that consumer confidence, as plumbed by the Conference Board, ebbed in October for the second consecutive month. The stock market failed to sustain a spike of 60 points in the afternoon but ended up solidly for the day, with the Dow Jones industrial average rising more than 34 points to 6,007.02.
"It's astonishing that the economy can remain so long at virtually full employment and see not one hint of accelerated wage growth," said Russell W. Sheldon, a senior economist at the Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh.
The other side of modest cost increases for employers, of course, is sluggish income gains for workers.
Pay and benefits climbed 2.8 percent over the latest 12 months while the Consumer Price Index over this period rose 3 percent. The slight decline in real worker compensation, said Brian S. Wesbury, a Chicago economist who until recently worked for the Republican majority at the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, "reflects the continuing problems that the U.S. economy is having in turning economic growth into rising standards of living."
The modest rise in the index, which Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, highlighted in his most recent appearance before Congress, further reduced the possibility that the central bank would raise short-term interest rates any time soon to arrest inflationary pressures.
The Government is expected to report Wednesday that the economy's overall growth in the July-September period was less than half the second quarter's robust 4.7 percent pace, a slowing that Fed policy makers had bet would occur without their having to raise rates during a Presidential campaign.
Analysts said today that if gross domestic product did indeed ease back to a slower pace, it would then take an extraordinarily strong report on the October labor market, to be published Friday, to cause the Fed to raise interest rates at its Nov. 13 strategy session.
Friday's employment report, the final major indicator before Election Day, will show whether September's relatively weak performance, in which the number of jobs fell about 40,000, was just temporary or was the first sign of a possible decline in the economy.
In issuing its monthly report on consumer confidence, the Conference Board, a New York research group, said its index fell to 106.2 from 111.8 in September, a still healthy level but one that reflected a dampened outlook for the next six months. This element skidded to 94 from 100.7 while consumers' appraisal of the present situation eased to 124.6 from 128.5.
The results are "no cause for alarm," said Lynn Franco, a board official. "Confidence levels in virtually all major areas of the country are running at relatively strong levels, suggesting a strong holiday spending season."
The Labor Department's compilation of employment costs found growth in wages and salaries alone slowed to six-tenths of 1 percent in the latest period, significantly lower than the increases of 1 percent and nine-tenths of 1 percent, respectively, in the first two quarters. This was despite a tight market that brought the unemployment rate down to a low of 5.1 percent in August.
Mr. Greenspan told Congress in July that what he called the "surprising strength" in pay "raises the possibility that workers' willingness to surrender wage gains for job security may be lessening."
But this seems not to have occurred even though average hourly earnings rose smartly during the third quarter, apparently reflecting a shift to more workers in higher-wage industries rather than big increases in individual pay packets.
Rosanne M. Cahn, an economist at CS First Boston, explained the minimal wage pressure: "Labor is poorly organized to take advantage of their scarcity."
Benefit costs, meanwhile, also rose six-tenths of 1 percent in the three months through September and 1.8 percent for the latest 12 months. After years in which benefit increases exceeded those for wages and salaries, fringes have recently become a moderating force and actually showed no increase at all in the first three months of 1996. The second-quarter increase was seven-tenths of 1 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Wage Growth" tracks workers' wages and salaries, quarterly, since the beginning of 1995. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. D18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (54%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; FRINGE BENEFITS; EMPLOYMENT COST INDEX (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); COST OF LIVING WAGES & SALARIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INFLATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); BONDS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); BOND MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996



687 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1935 words

HEADLINE: Aircraft Deal With Chinese Is Questioned

BYLINE: By JEFF GERTH and DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 29

 BODY:
Nearly two years ago the McDonnell Douglas Corporation announced a deal with China that seemed like a victory for both American commercial diplomacy and the aircraft maker's work force: a $1.6 billion order for 40 airplanes, half of them built in California, half in Shanghai.
The deal had been years in the making, and President Clinton touted it as an example of the Administration's deft handling of a huge project that could have easily been derailed by Washington's rocky relationship with Beijing. And for McDonnell Douglas, it was a chance to make some profits in China. 
 But now a Federal grand jury is investigating whether McDonnell Douglas or its Chinese partner, the procurement arm of the Chinese Aviation Ministry, knowingly violated American export-control laws. And this criminal inquiry has prompted a round of finger-pointing in the Administration, as well as a growing debate over how the United States should respond to China's increasingly loud demands for technology, some of it of potential military value, in return for billions in contracts.
At issue is a little-noticed, $5 million side agreement that called for McDonnell Douglas to sell the Chinese a range of huge machine tools -- factory-sized equipment used to make everything from commercial aircraft to bombers and missiles. The Chinese said they were bound for a new machinery plant in Beijing to help build the aircraft, called the Trunkliner.
That plant was never built. Violating the terms of the Commerce Department export license, which specified where and how the machine tools could be used, some of the machinery was diverted to a military factory that produces missiles, among other armaments.
McDonnell Douglas says it learned of the diversion in March 1995 and alerted American officials. But Government officials say investigators have uncovered evidence that some company officials may or should have been aware before March 1995 that the Chinese had abandoned plans to house the equipment in Beijing. Eventually, under American prodding, the equipment was shipped to a McDonnell Douglas joint-venture installation in Shanghai.
The case raises questions about the Commerce Department's ability to control so-called dual-use exports -- equipment that can be used for both commercial and military purposes -- destined for countries like China, where the line between military and nonmilitary production is blurry at best.
But the department's job is made even more difficult by the Administration's ambiguous policy over how to treat China: as a thriving emerging economy that American companies should race to build up, or a potential military threat and economic competitor.
American officials want to avoid sending any signals that would fuel China's belief that the United States is trying to "contain" China's power, militarily or economically. And they know that if they deny a range of industrial technology to China, other competitors -- chiefly France and Germany -- are ready to leap in and fill the void.
"In dealing with big emerging markets like China, the U.S. faces excruciating tradeoffs," said Jeffrey A. Garten, who was the Under Secretary of Commerce when the Trunkliner deal was struck and is now dean of the Yale School of Management. "On the one hand we have overwhelming commercial goals. On the other, we have to be careful about transferring technology, first because there could be unintended military consequences, and secondly because we could be transferring our competitiveness."
Clyde Prestowitz, a former Commerce Department official and now the head of the Economic Strategy Institute in Washington, said: "There are parts of the Government that look upon China as a friend in these kinds of deals, and parts that look on it as a foe. And the result is that you often have a difficult time getting anyone to take a solid position."
 
Commerce Dept. Says System Works
In fact, the Commerce Department hails the case of the diverted machine tools as proof that the system works. As soon as the equipment showed up in the military factory, they said, top Commerce and State Department officials went to work to remove it from that factory and place it under tighter supervision.
But that took nearly a year. And now the criminal inquiry is focusing on a range of questions about the relationship between China and McDonnell Douglas, especially whether the two partners knowingly misled the Commerce Department to get approval for the export of the equipment, a deal some in the Pentagon opposed.
McDonnell Douglas says that it played by the rules and that the Trunkliner deal is proceeding on schedule.
"This isn't that complicated," said Larry McCracken, the company's spokesman. "We sought export licenses, we got them, we discovered the equipment wasn't where it was supposed to be, and we got it moved. In the end, we think the export-control system worked."
But many Government officials say the issues are far more complicated, and that is why the Commerce Department referred the issue to the Justice Department for possible prosecution. The criminal inquiry has also become diplomatically sensitive as investigators consider subpoenaing records from the Chinese company. That, in turn, could take them into the workings of the procurement arm of the Chinese Aviation Ministry.
When Ronald H. Brown, the Commerce Secretary who died in a plane crash in Croatia in April, took his first trip to China in August 1994, there were two big deals on the table: reviving McDonnell Douglas's deal to sell 40 MD-90 aircraft to China -- the Trunkliner deal -- and getting Chrysler the chance to build minivans in China.
They were big transactions, with billions at stake, and Mr. Brown clearly hoped to emerge from his venture with contracts in his pocket. He took both deals to the highest level, making his pitch to China's Prime Minister, Li Peng, and its President, Jiang Zemin.
A draft of Mr. Brown's speech in China shows that he wanted American businessmen to understand that "sales of sensitive technologies have been made despite public and political opposition."
McDonnell Douglas had worked for years on a joint venture with the Chinese in Shanghai but its rival, Boeing, continued to dominate the Chinese aircraft market. McDonnell figured it could begin making money in China only if the Trunkliner deal finally came together, after falling apart time and again during the last decade.
 
The Chinese Ask For Machine Tools
A year before Mr. Brown's visit to Beijing, China added a new wrinkle to the negotiations. It wanted to buy machine tools to increase its production capacity and improve its capabilities. Most of the equipment was in a huge factory in Columbus, Ohio, and it was filled with the giant machine tools that shape and bend large aircraft parts.
According to military experts, the machines would enable the Chinese military to improve significantly the performance abilities -- speed, range and maneuverability -- of their aircraft. And if diverted, they could do the same for missiles and bombers.
When Chinese representatives visited the plant, many of the workers were outraged -- in part because they feared losing their jobs -- and blocked their path, causing a considerable commotion. Later the negotiations hit a snag, and the Chinese sent a letter to McDonnell expressing concern that the equipment sale was at a "stalemate" and telling the company that if the deal came through, it would "have a big influence in the Trunkliner program."
A few months later, McDonnell Douglas agreed to sell the machines, some of which were more than a decade old, for $5 million. In May 1994, it applied for an export license from the Commerce Department. The Chinese, they said, planned to build a huge machine tool center for the equipment in Beijing, which was the destination listed on the license application for the most sensitive of the tools.
But the plan of China's state-run airplane company, Catic, to use the equipment at a machine tool center, as promised in the license, is suspect, officials say.
There is considerable evidence now that the plan began as an afterthought, and was abandoned well before the license was ever approved. Everyone agrees the center was never built. Moreover, officials say, the Chinese actually constructed another building 800 miles away, at a military factory in Nanchang. And that is where several of the machines were ultimately discovered.
Catic declined to respond to questions submitted last week.
In the wake of the illegal diversion, other Federal agencies involved in issuing the license now say they warned the Commerce Department that the shipment was risky. Pentagon officials who opposed the transfer of the machines argued, among other things, that the Chinese would probably divert them to help boost the performance abilities of their fighter aircraft and missiles, according to documents and officials.
In fact, just before the license was issued, the Administration asked its embassy in Beijing to get a "Government-to-Government assurance" that the equipment would go to its intended destination. China provided that assurance.
Commerce Department officials say they acted properly.
"The Commerce Department is the only agency that has the resources, the expertise, the mindset and the capability to handle this kind of issue," said William A. Reinsch, the under secretary for export administration.
 
Short-Term Gain Said to Hurt Security
But Representative Tillie Fowler, a Florida Republican who is a member of the Armed Services Committee, says that allowing McDonnell Douglas to transfer technology to a "company that didn't even exist" reflects an "emphasis on short-term gain at the expense of national security and long-term economic gain."
One of the biggest and most critical pieces of equipment was immediately diverted to the Nanchang military plant: a "stretch press" that is used to manufacture the skin of an aircraft. It was shipped directly from Long Beach, Calif., to Shanghai rather than to Beijing, suggesting that the diversion may have been planned far in advance. By the time McDonnell Douglas officials say they learned of the whereabouts of the equipment and were permitted in to inspect it, the stretch press had been uncrated and partly installed, but was not yet operating.
Commerce Department officials say they waited seven months before beginning an investigation into whether Catic or McDonnell Douglas misled the interagency group of officials that initially agreed to issue the export license because it took them a year to simply get the equipment back under American control.
"We didn't want to do anything in the short run that would make cooperation from McDonnell Douglas and Catic less likely," a senior Commerce Department official said.
Commerce investigators in California recommended tough sanctions against Catic, the Chinese procurement company, barring it from future acquisitions. But John Despres, the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Export Enforcement, said in an interview that the recommendation was not adopted because Commerce can invoke such a sanction only if it can demonstrate that an imminent violation of the law is about to take place. This violation had already been committed.
The criminal inquiry has raised diplomatic sensitivities at a time that the Clinton Administration is trying to improve its relationship with Beijing. Secretary of State Warren Christopher is scheduled to visit China next month, and hopes to arrange a summit meeting next year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: This McDonnell Douglas aircraft, operated by China Eastern Airlines, was produced in Shanghai under a co-production agreement that was a forerunner of a $1.6 billion deal that is to produce 40 other planes. (pg. A10)
 
Chronology: "CHRONOLOGY: A Military-Industrial Whodunit"
 
AUGUST-SEPTEMBER 1993 -- Representatives of China's state-run airplane manufacturing company, Catic, visit McDonnell Douglas plant in Colmbus, Ohio, where they examine large machine tools used to fabricate aircraft. A Catic offical writes McDonnell Douglas complaining that talks on the sale of such equipment are at a stalemate but that any deal would have a "big influence" on the proposed Trunkliner program, under which McDonnell Douglas and the Chinese would co-produce 40 aircraft.
 
EARLY 1994 -- Catic and McDonnell Douglas reach $5 million agreement to sell the machine tools.
 
MAY 1994 -- McDonnell Douglas applies to Commerce Department for an export license. The application calls for the equipment to be shipped to Beijing where it will be used at a soon-to-be-constructed machine tool chenter owned by a Catic subsidiary.
 
SUMMER 1994 -- U.S. officials review the license. Some Pentagon officials oppose the sale, fearing the equipment will be diverted for military use, but eventually an interagency group gives the go-ahead. By now Catic's American partner in the Beijing machine tool center is backing away form the project.
 
AUGUST 1994 -- Secretary of Commerce Ronald H. Brown visits China, where he presses China's leadership to make a deal with McDonnell Douglas on the Trunkliner program.
 
SEPTEMBER 1994 -- Chinese Government assures the U.S. Embassy in Beijing that the equipment will go to its intended destination, but the location and start-up date for the Beijing machine tool center remain in question. The Commerce Department approves the export license, but requires strict monitoring by McDonnell Douglas.
 
NOVEMBER 1994 -- President Clilnton announces that the Chinese Government agreed to buy 20 aircraft built in the U.S. and manufacture another 20 in China with McDonnell Douglas.
 
EARLY 1995 -- The machine tools begin to arrive in China. Two shipments go to Beijing, as promised in the license, and two go to SHanghai.
 
MARCH-APRIL 1995 -- McDonnell Douglas discovers that several pieces of equipment are at a military facility in Nanchang, which is a violation of the export license. One piece of its equipment has been mounted inside a newly construted building at a military factory that also produces cruise missiles. McDonnell Douglas alerts the Commerce Department to the diversion. The license for the equipment not yet shipped is suspended.
 
NOVEMBER 1995 -- The Commerce Department opens an investigation into the diversion.
 
FIRST HALF OF 1996 -- A Federal grand jury in Washington subpoenas thousands of documents from McDonnell Douglas and other parties in the case. (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

TICKER: MD (NYSE) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (94%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (97%); EAST CHINA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); JIANGXI, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); 

COMPANY: MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (97%); EAST CHINA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); JIANGXI, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LICENSES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MISSILES MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MACHINE TOOLS (88%); EXPORT CONTROLS (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (74%); AIRLINES (73%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (72%); GRAND JURY (69%); JOINT VENTURES (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (64%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%); 

PERSON: GERTH, JEFF; SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996



688 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2142 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: PROFILE -- A Quiet Man's Fierce Fight;
Zimmer Has Set Aside Calm for His Political Passions

SERIES: CONTENDERS: The New Jersey Senate Race -- First of two profiles

BYLINE: By BRETT PULLEY 

DATELINE: DELAWARE TOWNSHIP, N.J.

 BODY:
Like many things about Richard A. Zimmer, the farm he calls home, with its 152-year-old clapboard house and rusty, rooster-shaped weather vane, can easily be misunderstood. Although he and his family have lived here for 20 years, Mr. Zimmer has never actually been much of a farmer.
Buttoned-down and erudite, this three-term Republican Congressman who is now running for the United States Senate is a study in contradictions. Raised in a solidly Democratic household of meager means, he made his way in politics through devotion to the Republican Party. While he is an impassioned conservative on many issues, he is mild and moderate on others. And while many other politicians are smooth glad-handers, Mr. Zimmer is taciturn, even shy. He can, at once, seem soft-spoken and humble, yet fiercely pugnacious, focused and unafraid to go for the jugular. 
 "He's not slick and he's not smooth, but beneath that rough, sort of unhandled exterior is a really solid core," said Tom Wilson, executive director of the New Jersey Republican Party. "There have been a lot of quiet people who have very strong convictions, and I think Dick falls into that category."
Mr. Zimmer's willingness to fight has been evident this campaign season. While many people around the state, including some of his ardent supporters, have complained that his television campaign advertisements are too negative, he has been unrelenting, insisting that his attacks on his Democrat opponent, Representative Robert G. Torricelli, are fair and necessary. And rather than pulling the commercials, Mr. Zimmer has run more of them.
"I take full responsibility for all my ads," he said in an interview. "I do not believe it's negative for me to point out the truth."
For Mr. Zimmer, this is the reality of the political world he lives in. At age 52 and after 14 years in elective offices, he seems to have concluded that while the restrained and modest Dick Zimmer may get his reward in heaven, the aggressive and combative Dick Zimmer must prevail if he is to realize a reward on Election Day.
As his wife, Marfy Goodspeed, recalled him telling her last year, when he first decided to seek the Senate seat being vacated by Bill Bradley, "You know, this is going to be a year of hell."
 
The Student
An Early Certainty About the Future
Ms. Goodspeed worries, she said in an interview in the living room of their farmhouse, that the negative tone of the race will make "some people think Dick's a rotten guy, because they don't know him." Mr. Zimmer himself has expressed similar concerns about the way the public perceives him.
"People tend to forget that politicians are real people with families," he said. "What I am is a product of how I grew up and what my family has been through."
Richard Alan Zimmer was born on Aug. 16, 1944, in Newark, the second of two children. His father, William, a physician, died of a heart attack when Richard was 3, and for the next few years, his mother, Evelyn, supported the family by working as a clerk at the Sunshine Biscuits warehouse in Bloomfield. Mr. Zimmer still jokingly refers to the garden apartment where they lived as "the New Jersey equivalent of a log cabin."
When Mr. Zimmer was 12, his mother married Howard Rubin, a mailman who had three children of his own. They all moved to a house in suburban Glen Ridge, an upscale, overwhelmingly Protestant community of old, dignified homes.
This was the 1950's, and a Jewish family was unusual enough in Glen Ridge, much less one that was newly combined. "We were ahead of our times as a blended family," Mr. Zimmer's stepsister, Ilene Hyman, recently recalled.
To help make ends meet, Mr. Zimmer's mother sold encyclopedias, and after school Mr. Zimmer worked part time at a soda shop and a pants factory. Science was as much his passion as politics in those days, and according to his sisters, he always had some sort of science project brewing in his bedroom.
His stepfather, Mr. Rubin, said that as a teen-ager Mr. Zimmer would go to lectures and readings by science fiction writers. At dinner one night, he announced, "One day, we'll have a man on the moon,"' Mr. Rubin recalled. "I said, 'Dick, how the hell is he going to get back?' "
Known as Zeke to his classmates at Glen Ridge High School, Mr. Zimmer joined the chemistry and future physicians clubs, and became president of the Debate Club. He played bass drum in the marching band and acted in school plays.
As is clear in his senior class yearbook from 1962, where he is identified as "a future labor leader, politician and chemist," Mr. Zimmer was headed toward a life in public service. But based on quotes printed under his name in the yearbook, his political views were still evolving. "Workers of the World Unite," proclaims one. Another reads: "Never mind paying the check. This restaurant is a bulwark of reactionary conservatism."
He graduated at the top of his class, and gave the commencement address. But more significant about that day was what was happening to his family. Mrs. Zimmer, who was suffering from lymphoma, had become so ill that she had paramedics take her to the school auditorium on a stretcher. Several days later, she died.
Mr. Zimmer's sisters, too, have had bouts with cancer: all three have battled breast cancer.
Yet his opponent in the Senate race, Mr. Torricelli, has repeatedly criticized Mr. Zimmer's vote against a House proposal that would have made mammogram testing available to more women. Mr. Zimmer has defended the vote as part of his effort to hold down Federal spending.
And a stepsister, Susan Rubin, says Mr. Zimmer is "concerned" about people with cancer, adding, "He's lived through it."
Mr. Zimmer attended Yale University on a full academic scholarship. Shortly after his arrival, he became interested in attending law school and changed his major from chemistry to political science. He began reading the works of the economist Milton Friedman, who would win the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science for his advocacy of free-market economics.
Even though Mr. Zimmer's family had always, as he said, "felt the Democrats were the party of the people," he began to reassess his own ideology. Concluding that he identified more with the Republican Party's philosophies of individual liberty and free enterprise, he became a Republican. More than 30 years later, Mr. Zimmer said he still finds himself explaining that decision at family gatherings.
While at Yale, he became smitten with a student attending Albertus Magnus College, a nearby Roman Catholic school for women. Marfy Goodspeed was the daughter of an engineer from Grand Rapids, Mich. They met on a blind date and that evening, he talked about his summer job surveying roads in Montana. "I thought, 'Oh, what an interesting guy,' " Ms. Goodspeed recalled.
The next summer, in 1965, he landed a job in the office of Senator Clifford Case, the last New Jersey Republican elected to the United States Senate. While Mr. Zimmer was working for Senator Case, "sometimes he'd say that being a senator is the best job in the world," Ms. Goodspeed said, adding, "But at 20, you don't think that's actually going to happen."
The Senate seat Mr. Zimmer is now seeking is the one once held by Senator Case.
The Zimmers married in 1966, during his senior year, and as Mr. Zimmer went on to Yale Law School, Ms. Goodspeed gave birth to their first son. They now have two: the older son, Carl, 30 , is an editor at Discover magazine, and the other, Ben, 25, is a graduate student at the University of Chicago.
 
The Budget Cutter
A Common Cause, A Fiscal Cause
After law school, Mr. Zimmer became an associate at the prominent New York law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore. He worked there from 1969 until 1975, when he became a general attorney at Johnson & Johnson, the pharmaceutical giant in New Brunswick, N.J. He remained there until he was elected to Congress in 1990.
Even before joining Johnson & Johnson, he became active in a new citizen lobby, New Jersey Common Cause, and as chairman of the group, led the successful lobbying campaign for the state's Sunshine Law, which opened government meetings to the public.
His fiscal conservatism was in full form by the early 1970's. He caught the attention of Thomas H. Kean, who was a State Assemblyman, for his Common Cause work lobbying successfully for campaign finance reform in New Jersey. Mr. Kean, in an interview, recalled that he complained to Mr. Zimmer in 1973 that the new campaign finance rules were too onerous.
"He said, 'No I don't think they are,' " Mr. Kean said. "So I said, 'Be the treasurer of my campaign and find out.' "
Mr. Zimmer accepted the challenge, and when Mr. Kean won re-election to the Assembly, Mr. Zimmer became a player in state politics.
In 1978 and again the next year, Mr. Zimmer ran for the State Assembly, promising to reduce the state budget. But the first time out, he withdrew early in the race due to a lack of money; the second time he was narrowly defeated. Two years later, he was elected, and was easily re-elected in 1983 and 1985. After State Senator Walter Foran died in 1987, Mr. Zimmer won a special election to replace him and was later elected to a full State Senate term.
His determination to cut spending and taxes in the State Legislature sometimes put him in conflict with his own party. He angered Mr. Kean, who was then Governor, when he voted against Mr. Kean's budget plan. "I don't think he's ever met a budget he liked," Mr. Kean said. "He always feels he can cut a budget a little bit."
In 1990, Mr. Zimmer was elected to Congress, representing New Jersey's 12th District, which cuts across the center of the state, from the Delaware River to the Atlantic shore. He has more than a half million constituents in Hunterdon, Mercer, Somerset, Monmouth and Middlesex counties.
In Washington, the self-proclaimed "fiscal hawk" sponsored legislation to phase out agricultural price support programs, persuaded the House leadership to phase out wool and mohair subsidies, and helped pass legislation to use unspent money from lawmakers' office budgets to reduce the Federal deficit. He led by example, returning $123,000 from his own office account in 1995. In 1996, when he joined House leaders in shutting down the Government, he put his own pay on hold during the shutdown.
Such actions have earned Mr. Zimmer high ratings from organizations like Citizens Against Government Waste and the National Taxpayers Union. But his fiscal restraint has come at a political price.
After first boasting that he "played a significant role" in helping House Speaker Newt Gingrich draft provisions of the Contract With America, Mr. Zimmer has spent this campaign trying to distance himself from the now-unpopular House Speaker. While Mr. Zimmer voted for most of the provisions in the contract, he now contends that his votes reflected "positions I had long before anybody thought of the term 'the Contract.' "
Mr. Torricelli says Mr. Zimmer has been overzealous in his pursuit of less Government spending and lower taxes. "People simply need to know the price of becoming this self-proclaimed deficit hawk," Mr. Torricelli said.
And Mr. Zimmer's wife confirms that he "really does pinch pennies." But, she said, "when something important comes along, he's got his priorities in order."
As a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, Mr. Zimmer helped write welfare reform legislation, and one of his most recognized acts as a member of Congress was his successful effort to enact a Federal "Megan's Law," requiring that paroled sex offenders notify the local authorities of their whereabouts. The earlier, New Jersey version was named after the 8-year-old girl from Hamilton who was raped and murdered in 1994. A convicted sex offender who lived across the street has been charged.
 
The Private Man
Budgeting Time For the Sunset
Campaigning and legislative duties have left little time for leisure, and most of Mr. Zimmer's reading during the campaign has been limited to newspapers and magazines. It has been several months since he has been fly-fishing, a hobby that he and his wife took up a few years ago.
And the farm work? Well, although he helps out, he never did much of the work anyway, his wife said. Moving to the farm was her idea.
"He had reservations," she said. "He wanted to live on an old, tree-lined street."
Even during busy weeks in the House, he tries to get back to the farm on weekends, and at a staff meeting in his Washington office one Monday morning, Mr. Zimmer sounded as if there was no better place in the world than the farm.
"I actually got to see the sun set with Marfy," he told his staff. In unison, they dreamily replied, "Ahhhh."
NEXT: A profile of Representative Robert G. Torricelli.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Richard A. Zimmer came from a solidly Democratic family, but now he is a budget-cutting Republican. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times); Richard A. Zimmer, above, wielding a slide rule at age 16, after winning a science award and, right, as a 3-month-old with his mother and sister.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Series

LEGISLATION: 104 P.L. 145 MEGAN'S LAW (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (65%); 

PERSON: PULLEY, BRETT; ZIMMER, RICHARD A (REPR); TORRICELLI, ROBERT G (REPR) THOMAS J WILSON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996



689 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: A Saks Solo Effort Seen in Buying Barneys

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Saks Fifth Avenue has significantly weakened its ties with the Isetan Company of Japan, the adversarial partner of Barneys New York, and is moving ahead on its own in its attempt to buy Barneys, people close to the situation said yesterday.
Some of these people said that the Neiman Marcus Group, which in the past had expressed a tepid interest in acquiring Barneys, had become more serious about a possible merger or acquisition with the upscale New York retailer 
 Dickson Concepts of a Hong Kong, which has stores in Asia and London, bid $350 million last month for the retailer, and is engaged in informal talks with the company, these people said.
Although Saks has not yet reached the talking stage with Barneys, it has signed the confidentiality agreements required for access to Barneys' financial records.
Saks, which went public with big growth plans in July, originally expressed its interest in Barneys through an agreement with Isetan, a Japanese investor group, to explore an acquisition together. That agreement provoked outrage from both Barneys and the creditors' committee, which thought that the two had gone behind their backs to maneuver a deal. Although Saks is still interested in working with Isetan, if that will facilitate the deal, any formal agreement to work together has expired. By signing the confidentiality agreement, Saks can now go about exploring merger or acquisition efforts with Barneys' blessing. Neither company would comment yesterday.
Barneys, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in January, is privately held, and for competitive reasons, it requires that those interested in looking at its financial information sign an agreement of silence.
The Neiman Marcus Group is also close to signing the agreement with Barneys' investment bank, the Blackstone Group.
"This is positive for both Barneys and the creditors that the two companies were able to put aside their differences and find a mutually satisfactory confidentiality agreement," said Lisa Stern, an analyst at M. J. Whitman.
People close to the situation, who spoke on condition on anonymity, said that Saks had told the creditors' committee that it would take at least a few months to do its own evaluation of Barneys.
Other potential investors have also signed confidentiality agreements, including LVMH Moet Hennessy-Louis Vuitton, the biggest luxury-goods vendor in the world, and Holt Renfrew, a Canadian-based retailer with a shopping clientele similar to that of Barneys. A few nonretail financial investors have also looked at the books, sniffing around but not really expressing a strong interest.
The rivals each have a vested interest in keeping others out of the deal. Saks does not want Neiman-Marcus -- already in New Jersey and White Plains -- stomping its fancy hooves about Manhattan. Neiman, which has watched Saks acquire new stores In Texas, would also like to limit Saks' growth.
In a deal with Barneys, each retailer would stand to benefit from economies of scales with vendors, in particular Saks, which is making a huge effort to bring in the cutting-edge designers whose clothes are sold by Barneys. Saks also has an aggressive private-label plan, which could benefit from Barneys' expertise.
Each retail company clearly plans to grow. Neiman Marcus recently offered shares of common stock. The proceeds will be used to repurchase the company's preferred stock -- around $416 million -- eliminating $27 million in dividends, which would help cash flow. Many analysts think it may be looking to grow through an acquisition. Neiman appears to have more cash on hand.
Each retailer runs the risk of running afoul of its existing businesses -- the Neiman Marcus Group owns Bergdorf Goodman -- if it does not seek to differentiate the Barney's stores from the mix. And Saks must be careful not to overextend its operations -- it is rolling out several stores of various sizes this year -- at the expense of current shareholders.
"The question remains, how many growth plans can Saks implement at once, given that they are fully leveraged," Ms. Stern said. "Neiman's may be in a better position to buy Barneys simply because it has a lot more liquidity. Barneys needs someone who can expand it internationally. They should be in Paris, London, Milan and so forth. That is where I see the growth in Barneys."
And while the question of the future of Barneys' current chief executives, Bob and Gene Pressman, has been called into question in case of a merger or acquisition, both Saks and Neiman Marcus would like to keep the brothers from running out and starting yet another competing business, taking their considerable merchandising skills with them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MC (PAR) (65%); LVMH (BIT) (65%); 0113 (HKSE) (57%); BX (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (65%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (65%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (59%); NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (57%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (57%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (73%); HONG KONG (72%); CANADA (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BARNEY'S INC; SAKS FIFTH AVENUE; ISETAN CO; NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP INC; DICKSON CONCEPTS ISETAN CO LTD (94%); NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP INC (94%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (65%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (59%); DICKSON CONCEPTS (INTERNATIONAL) LTD (57%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BARNEY'S INC; SAKS FIFTH AVENUE; ISETAN CO; NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP INC; DICKSON CONCEPTS

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (73%); HONG KONG (72%); CANADA (51%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MERGERS (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (67%); 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996



690 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: PARADE FOR THE YANKEES: THE CELEBRATION;
A Parade of Pride in Yankee Triumph

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD 

 BODY:
With its lungs and its heart, New York City at its effulgent extreme saluted the triumphant Yankees yesterday in a rousing ticker tape parade up lower Broadway's Canyon of Heroes.
For several hours in the middle of a splendiferous autumn day, work stopped, play stopped and the dog had to wait. It was Yankees and nothing else. 
 Three days after one final foul fly ball plunked into the open glove of third baseman Charlie Hayes and the World Series finally belonged to the Yankees again, New Yorkers made it clear that they were not yet ready to let go of perhaps the most emotional October baseball the city has ever seen.
In a remarkable mass expression of civic pride combined with pure and unrestrained sports mania -- what many interpreted as yet one more indicator of a rebounding metropolis -- euphoric fans who had exhausted their lungs during the seat-squirming fall melodrama showed that they had still more voice left in them. Their earsplitting cheers reverberated off the skyscrapers that lined the parade path in a mighty roar of congratulations.
"I've been a Yankee fan since I was born, and I had to be part of history," said 11-year-old Eddie Padilla, who with a semitroubled conscience skipped school to watch the parade. "These guys made this my best year, and I wanted to tell them that by screaming as loud as I can."
On a brisk and windy day, under azure skies with unlimited blue, the city showed itself in all its extroversion. Screeching, passionate rooters dangled out of windows, scrambled into tree branches, settled on rooftops and choked the broad sidewalks into human gridlock, as lower Manhattan groaned under the weight of a crowd that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani put at 3.5 million, an estimate probably borne more out of enthusiasm than precise methodology.
Joe Torre, the Yankee manager, who had endured the most profound emotional tribulations during the long season, told the crowd at a rally at City Hall after the parade that he had never seen anything like it.
"I've never been involved -- obviously -- never even close to being involved in anything like this parade today and this sea of humanity we see out here this afternoon," he said. "This is absolutely spectacular.
"What energy! You could have lit up the whole world today with the energy you put out today out here. Electricity is what it was all about."
Up the route of Lindbergh and MacArthur, of Van Cliburn and Nehru, of Earhart and the Apollo astronauts, the men in pinstripes, wearing their aura of success, wallowed in the delicious taste of it all atop blue-and-white floats that unhurriedly crept along a one-mile dream route from Battery Park to Chambers Street. All around them was magnificence, a vivid pageant to baseball superiority. Brass bands played, bagpipes wailed, majorettes strutted and a storm of paper snowed down on the players, coating the streets in manufactured white.
Ticker tape being an obsolete relic, people hurled everything from shredded paper to confetti to toilet tissue. In fact, several government agencies near City Hall dumped entire boxes of public and confidential records out the window, without troubling to shred them. Down came checks issued by the New York City Housing Authority and records of unemployment checks from the New York State Department of Social Services.
The hard-hurling bullpen artists and scampering infielders, the big power bats and the masterly starting pitchers, the gutsy players who held a city spellbound with their invigorating late-inning rallies, waved heartily to the clamorous throngs and applauded them back. The onlookers craned for peeks at their personal favorites. There was Jeter. There Pettitte. There Strawberry. There Williams.
Men in Yankee pinstripes had been down this route before, more times than anyone else, but not since 1978, when players named Jackson and Munson and Gossage wore the uniforms, and when all too many of the people on the streets had not yet learned what baseball was all about.
The gray financial district did not seem to mind the rackety intrusion of civic spirit, as people with suspect sliders and feeble swings who nonetheless play for even bigger sums of money gawked from windows and rooftops as the ballplayers inched past. A window washer, doing his job as scheduled before the Yankees chose to reorder the day, paused in his scrubbing to lift his fist in tribute.
A great many children clearly chose to study Yankees over fractions by bypassing school for a day. Louis Brandeis High School on the Upper West Side, a self-admitted haven of Yankee enthusiasts, reported that one in three students was not-so-mysteriously absent. While the school system said that elementary and junior highs kept their hold on students, it said that attendance at high schools tumbled to 75 percent from a normal 85 percent.
The Mayor permitted his son, Andrew, to take part of his school day off so he could ride on the float alongside his hero, Derek Jeter, the Yankees' rookie shortstop.
Many people came equipped with celebratory banners to proclaim their special interests: "Bronx Bombers Reborn," "They Did It From The Heart," "Andy Pettitte We Love You," "Kenny Rogers How About A Hug?" and more than one "Torre For President."
Some people arrived as early as the night before, tents in hand, to assure unobstructed views. Carol Lee Hauben and her son, Mike Hauben, put up their tent between Rector Street and Exchange Alley at midnight Monday. Mrs. Hauben said she slept in her car in a parking lot near the World Trade Center, but her son chose the tent. "He wanted to be on hallowed ground," she said.
"We're at the apex," said Mr. Hauben, 32. "It's a glorious day. If you didn't believe in destiny before this season, this would convince you."
Christeen Roth, 19, and her girlfriend Mercedes Lohmann, also 19, traveled from East Stroudsburg, Pa., to lower Broadway. Neither bothered sleeping the night before. Ms. Lohmann did not get off from her cashier's job until 10:30. Ms. Roth needed to study for a sociology test, and naturally had to watch the Yankees on David Letterman.
At 2:30 in the morning, they embarked for New York. Figuring parking would be challenging, they left their car in Dover, N.J., and took the PATH train the rest of the way. At 6:30 A.M., they found front-row spots before Trinity Church.
Ms. Roth: "I love the Yankees. I had to be right here."
Ms. Lohmann: "She talks about them all the time. Me, I'm not much of a fan. But I came to keep her out of trouble. All we had to eat were crackers."
Ms. Roth: "I did cut a macroeconomics class. That's not so good. I've got lit analysis at 5:40. I hope I can get back for it, but I don't know how except to pray."
Ms. Lohmann: "It feels like I've been here for a year."
At some inconvenience and considerable cost, Nicolas Richard, 32, saw the parade in settling a bet with his friend Tom Kelly that if the Yankees won the World Series he would show up at their celebration. Mr. Richard lives in Paris. His attendance subtracted 5,000 francs, about $1,000, from his bank account.
After the parade, Mayor Giuliani presented each ballplayer with a key to the city, a replica of the 1812 key to City Hall, at a ceremony on the steps of City Hall. He saluted the Yankees by saying: "Their victory is an inspiration for all of us. It's a metaphor for a city whose people work best under pressure. It's a metaphor for a city that is having a renaissance."
After he presented George M. Steinbrenner 3d, the Yankees' principal owner, with a proclamation declaring yesterday New York Yankee Day, Mr. Steinbrenner told the Mayor he was giving him the glittering World Series trophy to keep on display in City Hall.
One of the biggest ovations was for a guest named Joe DiMaggio, who rode in the parade alongside Gov. George E. Pataki and who managed to play for 9 world champion teams in 13 years. "I have never seen a ticker tape like this," he said, "and I think I've been in a few of them."
With the imprecision of crowd reckonings when the numbers explode into the millions, there was no easy way to weigh yesterday's outpouring against past tributes, though police estimates had 2.2 million people on the streets when the Mets took their magical trip in 1986 and 1.5 million in 1994 when the Rangers finally got around to capturing a Stanley Cup after 54 years.
In an estimate that seemed extravagant, the police concluded that 4.7 million people lined the route in 1991 for the Gulf War veterans.
The city said that the parade would cost more than $1 million, but that it expected to recover the expense from private sponsors. Anyone uninterested in a ball-and-bat game who needed to ride the subway yesterday faced what amounted to a daylong rush hour. Something approximating the entire population of a large city squeezed into the bottom of Manhattan yesterday, and most of them arrived underground.
Once it was over, they had to get out of there the same way they came.
The Transit Authority ran 16 more trains than normal, enough to carry about 30,000 people at a time. Still, trains were packed to capacity, and many of them sped past stations without stopping because the platforms were so crowded that there was no way to unload passengers.
Both the police and the Transit Authority, however, said that people were orderly.
"I've never seen this many people in my life," said Joseph E. Hofmann, the senior vice president in charge of subways, "and I can't believe how well everybody behaved."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Yankee announcer estimated that 3.5 million fans turned out yesterday, an estimate others found too high. On Liberty Street in Manhattan, Mary Ann Sweeney waved shredded paper. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B6); Up the route of Lindbergh and MacArthur, of Earhart and astronauts, the Yankees drank in the adulation of earsplittingly euphoric New Yorkers. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; WORLD SERIES; PARADES BASEBALL (92%); PARADES & MARCHES (87%); CITIES (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); 

PERSON: TORRE, JOE; KLEINFIELD, N R; STEINBRENNER, GEORGE M 3D; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); DIMAGGIO, JOE RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996



691 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Saks and Neiman Marcus Are Said to Vie for Barney's
Saks Fifth Avenue may make a solo bid for Barneys New York, people close to the situation said. Saks has significantly weakened its ties with the Isetan Company of Japan, Barney's adversarial partner.
Also, the Neiman Marcus Group, which had expressed a tepid interest in acquiring Barneys, has become more serious about a deal, some of these people said. [Page D2.]
 
TCI May Need a Satellite Deal
The F.C.C. reaffirmed a decision that bars Tele-Communications Inc. from transmitting a direct-broadcast satellite service to American homes from a Canadian-owned satellite. For TCI, the decision means that if it still wants to be a full-fledged player in satellite television, it may have to strike a deal with the News Corporation and MCI. [D7.]
 
Rupert Murdoch Promotes Two
Rupert Murdoch promoted Peter Chernin, left, the chairman of 20th Century Fox, to the newly created position of president of the News Corporation. He also named Mr. Chernin and Chase Carey, the chairman of the Fox Television Group, to be co-chief operating officers and board members of News Corporation. [D2.]
 
More Changes at America Online
America Online announced a pricing scheme, a management organization, a top manager and an accounting policy. [D4.]
 
Inquiry in McDonnell Douglas Deal
A Federal grand jury is investigating whether McDonnell Douglas or its Chinese partner in a $1.6 billion aircraft deal knowingly violated American export-control laws. [A1.]
 
Executive Shake-up at Microsoft
Microsoft said that Patty Stonesifer resigned as part of a shake-up that will centralize power in the hands of Paul Maritz, who has guided the company's operating systems business. [D4.]
 
Gates Gives Gift to Harvard
Bill Gates, a Harvard dropout, will donate $15 million to the university for computer science and engineering programs. [B9.]
 
Markets Rally on Economic Data
Signs of tame inflation ignited a bond market rally, but failed to impress the stock market. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond fell to 6.68 percent. [D18.]
 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 34.29 points, to 6,007.02. [D8.]
 
Earnings Hurt Donna Karan Stock
Donna Karan stock took a 17 percent tumble, closing down $3.25 a share, to $15.50, reflecting an announcement that the company's beauty division took and will continue to take a toll on profits. The company earned $13 million, or 52 cents a share, slightly below expectations. The designer must hope that the fashion mafia will take a kinder view of her spring clothing line than Wall Street did of her earnings. Market Place. [D8.]
 
Oil Supplies Climb Sharply
Supplies of heating oil and diesel fuel climbed sharply, continuing a turnaround. [D15.]


GRAPHIC: Dow Industrials -- 6,007.02, up 34.29
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.68%, down 0.15
The Dollar -- 114.34 yen, up 0.14
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
Gross Domestic Product
 3d-quarter figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +1.9%
 
New-Home Sales
 September figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: -8.5%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%); AOL (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (86%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (92%); NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP INC (86%); ISETAN CO LTD (84%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (58%); AOL INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (85%); FASHION DESIGNERS (84%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (70%); HEATING OIL (69%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (69%); ENGINEERING (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (66%); FASHION & APPAREL (65%); EXPORT CONTROLS (64%); CLOTHING LABELS (62%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%); DIESEL FUEL (60%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (50%); GRAND JURY (50%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (67%); PETER CHERNIN (67%); CHASE CAREY (52%); BILL GATES (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996



692 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Growth in Downtown Brooklyn Is Still Looking Up, Planners Say

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
Just south of the Atlantic Avenue railway station, where city-owned urban renewal property sat vacant for 30 years, a new complex of oversized suburban-style stores is to open next week.
Six blocks away, on Adams Street, workers just broke ground for Brooklyn's first new hotel in 50 years. 
 Across from the hotel site, which is still just a hole in the ground, the huge Metrotech office complex, begun in 1986, covers 10 blocks of long-blighted property. That project continues to grow, with an eight-story headquarters for the Fire Department expected to be completed next summer.
So goes the rebuilding of downtown Brooklyn, which over the last 10 years has quietly transformed the aged urban core of New York City's most populous borough into what experts have begun calling a model for big-city downtowns across the nation. And the resurgence -- which has transcended the sluggish economy that has derailed development in most cities -- appears for now at least to be continuing in high gear.
"Few downtowns in America can claim this amount of investment and job creation," said the Regional Plan Association in a report to be released today, which calls Brooklyn's revitalization over the last decade "a sign of optimism for the entire country, a direction marker for the future."
Nonetheless, the report cautions that continued improvements could become more difficult for Brooklyn's commercial core, from the Brooklyn Bridge to the Brooklyn Academy of Music and from Brooklyn Heights to Park Slope. Among the obstacles, the report says, is the legacy of incoherent development patterns and failed renewal programs that left large swaths of rundown buildings and vacant lots adjacent to newly revitalized commercial strips and elegant 19th-century residential blocks. Moreover, the planning group says, the area is hindered by its lingering image as an "old inner city" and by a city government "that has not demonstrated that it recognizes the economic importance and potential of downtown Brooklyn."
"Brooklyn has come along much further in reality than in perception," said H. Claude Shostal, president of the Regional Plan Association, the largest nongovernmental planning group in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. "But it is still not the Mecca for business and jobs that it should be."
The report by the planning group, which has had varying levels of influence over government planning decisions since the 1920's, has been anxiously awaited by many business people and city officials because of its source and timing. It lays out the group's second detailed analysis of downtown Brooklyn in 13 years: the first, in 1983, was credited by many for stimulating widespread interest, and ultimately business investment, in the neighborhood.
"The first report started things moving," said Howard Golden, the Brooklyn Borough President, whose office split the cost of the Regional Plan analysis with the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce.
Mr. Golden said the 1983 report had persuaded the Koch administration to create city incentives, including tax abatements for business, to lure development to Brooklyn.
Although many of the city inducements remain in place, relations with City Hall have since cooled, particularly since Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has made lower Manhattan a larger focus for economic development incentives. "We are back to being second-class citizens," Mr. Golden said.
Still, the scope of new construction, renovation and general sprucing up in downtown Brooklyn has been broad, involving business, universities and arts institutions. Recent projects include the 1987 renovation of the Majestic Theater at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, the 1989 restoration of Brooklyn's 150-year-old Borough Hall and an 11-story addition to the Brooklyn Law School that was completed in 1992.
"At the moment, this may be the most vital downtown area in the country," said Joshua Muss, the developer who broke ground this month on the new Adams Street hotel project. The project, the Marriott Renaissance Plaza, is to be completed in the summer of 1998 with 384 hotel rooms and a large section of corporate offices, already committed to an insurance company and the Kings County District Attorney's Office.
Mr. Muss said the economics of a new hotel were simple: there is already ample demand for rooms from business travelers in downtown Brooklyn to fill it up. And, he said, because development costs are far lower in the neighborhood, the Marriott will be able to charge less for its rooms -- under $150 a night -- than its competitors in Manhattan.
Other developers cite a similar combination of low costs and pent-up demand for the surge of building in Brooklyn.
"Brooklyn is probably the most under-retailed place in the country," said Bruce C. Ratner, a former New York City Commissioner of Consumer Affairs. He has emerged since the mid-1980's as the largest Brooklyn developer, building both Metrotech and the Atlantic Center, the new Atlantic Avenue retail complex of large, suburban-style "big box" outlets for Caldor's, Pathmark, the Sports Authority and other stores.
But despite such optimism among builders, the new Regional Plan report, like the 1983 study, reflects an uneven and far from complete pattern of urban revitalization.
While the earlier report made new office space a planning priority -- an objective clearly satisfied by Metrotech and several other new buildings -- it also recommended large-scale housing development on the blocks south of Brooklyn's main downtown shopping area, Fulton Mall. Those blocks remain a patchwork of vacant lots and dilapidated buildings.
And while the 1983 report recommended aggressive efforts to improve the tawdry appearance of some stores and attract at least one additional department store to Fulton Mall, investments in downtown retail development have largely bypassed the mall, moving instead to Metrotech, Atlantic Center and the residential areas of Cobble Hill, Fort Greene and Park Slope.
Now, in addition to pointing out several blocks or development sites that have languished for years -- blighted sections of Brooklyn's downtown waterfront, a stretch of Court Street near Borough Hall and other failures -- the Regional Plan report said that a new emphasis should be placed on improving the social environment and appearance of the neighborhood, and fostering more cooperation between its business, cultural and educational institutions.
In one recommendation, the study said efforts should be made to attract more people at night to Fulton Mall and downtown areas, in part by developing a cultural district, including new movie theaters, near the Brooklyn Academy of Music. It also recommended a University Center for students at downtown Brooklyn campuses.
To improve the appearance of downtown, the report said government officials and two business improvement districts already formed should clear illegal vendors from Fulton Mall, remove graffiti and promote old, partly vacant office buildings for use by nonprofit groups and small start-up businesses, or for conversion to housing.
And to create better coordination between business and educational institutions in the neighborhood, the report recommended creating a consortium of executives and university officials to develop new research and training programs, and to promote Brooklyn's reputation among students and business people.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A view of the Atlantic Center in downtown Brooklyn, taken from the Williamsburg Savings Bank. The new complex on Atlantic Avenue includes outlets for Caldor's, Pathmark, the Sports Authority and other stores. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)(pg. B3); Bruce C. Ratner, whose Atlantic Center in downtown Brooklyn has large suburban-style stores, calls Brooklyn "probably the most under-retailed place in the country." (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Chart/Map: "CONSTRUCTION AND RENOVATION: Development in Downtown Brooklyn"
 
1 -- Pierrepont Plaza
19-story office tower, completed in 1989.
 
2 -- State and Federal Court Buildings
The Federal and New York State governments and looking for space for new courts.
 
3 -- Renaissance Plaza
$230 million, 31-story hotel and office tower under construction.
 
4 -- Brooklyn Borough Hall
Resoration of 150-year-old building.
 
5 -- Brooklyn Law School
11-story building completed in 1994.
 
6 -- Livingston Plaza
12-story office building, completed in 1991.
 
7 -- Metro Tech Center
$1 billion, 16-acre corporate and academic complex.
 
8 -- Brooklyn Academy of Music
Two theaters renovated. A new multi-screen movie theater is being considered.
 
9 -- Fulton Ferry Landing
Restoration of a historic building.
 
10 -- Atlantic Center
$200 million project, which includes residential and retail development.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (96%); REGIONAL PLAN ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SUBURBS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996



693 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Metro Digest

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
The Yankees, and Nothing Else
With its lungs and its heart, New York City saluted the triumphant Yankees in a rousing ticker tape parade up lower Broadway's Canyon of Heroes. For several hours in the middle of a splendiferous autumn day, work stopped, play stopped and the dog had to wait. It was Yankees and nothing else. [Page A1.]
 
It was difficult to detect whether the Yankees or their maniacal fans were more elated. Call it mutual elation on this day of celebration. [B6.]
 
Around the city, high school attendance slid from the usual 85 percent to 75 percent, or just over 12,000 revelers. [B7.]
 
The show of affection for the New York Yankees became a profoundly personal triumph for Mayor Giuliani, the culmination of some of his favorite themes. [B7.]
 
The Views From a Blimp
Paul Adams wasn't moved by the cheers that echoed through lower Manhattan, where praise and ticker tape were heaped upon the triumphant Yankees. He's British and admits to a certain stiff-upper-lip reserve, which may explain why he stayed above it all. Actually, he floated more than 1,000 feet above it. He flies a blimp. This city has a special beauty, he said, which is more than he could say about the Meadowlands, which was once considered a real possibility as the site of a new Yankee Stadium. About New York by David Gonzalez. [B1.]
 
Questions Raised on Tower Air
Federal safety officials have concluded that the pilot of a Tower Airlines plane that slid off a Kennedy airport runway last December made two critical mistakes as he tried to lift the plane off the ground, and they said the accident raised troubling questions about the airline. [B1.]
 
Rebuilding Downtown Brooklyn
For the last 10 years, the rebuilding of downtown Brooklyn has quietly transformed the aged urban core of New York City's most populous borough into what experts have begun calling a model for big city downtowns across the nation. [B1.]
 
Vallone Stumps for Proposal 2
For months, Peter F. Vallone, the Speaker of the City Council, has been stumping hard for Proposal 2, the referendum on next Tuesday's ballot that would extend the maximum time a New York City official can stay in office to 12 years from 8. [B4.]
 
Perjury Charges in Bomb Case
A taxi driver from San Antonio, Tex., has been charged with lying to a Federal grand jury about a trip to Pakistan with a man who was later convicted of conspiring in the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center in Manhattan. [B2.]
 
Infant in Car Accident Dies
A baby who was removed from his dead mother's womb after she was killed by a car in Brooklyn died yesterday in a hospital, and the driver was charged with two counts of manslaughter. [B2.]
 
Insurers Rediscover Poor Areas
Insurance companies, which virtually wrote off the inner city in favor of the suburbs and wealthy pockets of cities, are now rediscovering poor and working-class urban neighborhoods. Business Day. [D1.]
 
NEW JERSEY
 
Strategies of a Senate Race
With polls showing President Clinton enjoying a strong lead in New Jersey, Robert G. Torricelli, the Democratic nominee for the United States Senate, is counting on the Clinton-Gore ticket to help him into office. Meanwhile, advisers to Mr. Torricelli's Republican opponent, Richard A. Zimmer, fear a Clinton landslide could sink their candidate. [A1.]
 
Representative Zimmer, in Paterson, emphasized the role he played in changing welfare. [B8.]
 
Representative Torricelli, in Newark, reiterated that he is a staunch advocate of gun control laws. [B8.]
 
The Contradictions of Zimmer
Buttoned-down and erudite, Richard A. Zimmer, the three-term Republican Congressman who is now running for the United States Senate, is a study in contradictions. Raised in a solidly Democratic household of meager means, he made his way in politics through devotion to the Republican Party. While he is an impassioned conservative on many issues, he is moderate on others. [B1.]
 
CONNECTICUT
 
Defense Suggests Cocaine Use
A toxicologist testified for the defense that the blood of the 16-year-old who said she was raped by Alex Kelly a decade ago showed that she had used cocaine and marijuana in the hours before the incident. The testimony given with the jury out of the courtroom was the first accusation that the accuser, now 26, had used cocaine. [B4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); AIRLINES (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MAYORS (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BASEBALL (73%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (69%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (69%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (68%); BOMBINGS (64%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (64%); CONSPIRACY (64%); GRAND JURY (64%); MANSLAUGHTER (64%); DEATHS (62%); REFERENDUMS (61%); INSURANCE (60%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996



694 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE RUNNING MATE;
Kemp Ruffled by Reports of Republican Pessimists and His Being a Defeatist

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY 

DATELINE: APPLE VALLEY, Calif., Oct. 29

 BODY:
In the waning days of the Presidential campaign, Jack Kemp has found himself on the defensive, piqued by attacks from some Republican naysayers and smarting at questions about his loyalty to his running mate, Bob Dole.
Twice in the last two weeks, most recently on Monday in California, when Mr. Kemp has crossed paths with Mr. Dole, their meeting has occurred under the cloud of a report in a national publication suggesting that the Republican Vice-Presidential candidate has written off any chances of victory on Election Day. 
 Mr. Kemp's staff and the candidate himself have worked feverishly in recent days to put down such talk.
"He has campaigned his heart out for this campaign, for this candidate," said Alixe Glen, the campaign spokeswoman. "'He has energized the base, swung the swingable, especially the Reagan Democrats."
"He's been a great running mate," Ms. Glen said, rolling off Mr. Kemp's contributions to the ticket since Mr. Dole chose him in mid-August: 140 events in 28 states, 300 interviews with local news organizations, 17 appearances on national television programs and acting as the star attraction at fund-raising events that have raked in $2.8 million.
Mr. Kemp is indeed an indefatigable campaigner. And though there have been minor problems and some slight communication differences with Mr. Dole, he has remained remarkably disciplined to the programs and policies that the ticket leader has laid out.
In Los Angeles today, for example, Mr. Kemp was faithful to the script that Mr. Dole dictated, speaking against government affirmative action programs and accusing President Clinton of lying about Mr. Dole's agenda.
A senior member of Mr. Dole's campaign acknowledged that questions about Mr. Kemp's loyalty were distracting, but said that they had not caused any rift between the candidates and that Mr. Dole trusted his running mate completely.
"There is a strong sense that Kemp has run a very good campaign in behalf of the ticket," said John Buckley, the communications director for the Dole-Kemp campaign, "and nobody at the national headquarters of any standing would be critical of him."
The notion that Mr. Kemp has given up the fight is ridiculous, Mr. Buckley said.
Before Mr. Dole offered and Mr. Kemp accepted the No. 2 spot, the two men were longtime political rivals. Both were candidates for the Republican Presidential nomination in 1988, and in this year's primary season, Mr. Kemp incensed Mr. Dole with his 11th-hour endorsement of Steve Forbes. But, by all accounts, the two put their differences aside when Mr. Kemp joined the ticket.
Questions about Mr. Kemp's loyalty to Mr. Dole emerged last week when Newsweek magazine reported in its gossipy "Periscope" section that Mr. Kemp was telling Republican governors that "it's over."
That same day, the two men appeared together at an economic forum in Detroit. Campaign aides said the issue was resolved privately, with Mr. Kemp meeting with Mr. Dole to deny the report and to again pledge his fidelity. But Mr. Kemp awoke a week later, on Monday, to a front-page article in USA Today and a political column inside that revived the Newsweek account.
Aides said Mr. Kemp was angered by the report. And for the first time he went public with his frustrations.
In an interview on Monday in Sun City, Calif., he told reporters: "I challenge you to find a single human being on this earth -- including my wife, with whom I sleep every night, my children, my grandchildren -- there is not a single person on the face of the globe who has been told by Jack Kemp that this race is over."
The issue clearly rankles Mr. Kemp, who in recent days has stepped up his complaints about "sunshine patriots." He does not call names -- on or off the record. But the chorus of complaints about the Dole campaign has come from such prominent Republicans as Gov. Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin, the conservative Bill Kristol and even William J. Bennett, the former Education Secretary, who is one of Mr. Kemp's closest political allies.
"It's a really disappointing thing for Jack," Ms. Glen said. "There are the anonymous people who are doing this backstabbing and backbenching and there are people who have not been campaigning with Jack a single day."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEWSWEEK INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); GOVERNORS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (52%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; KEMP, JACK; GRAY, JERRY BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996



695 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: A NATO Expansion: Now, or Never?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The judgment expressed in your Oct. 25 editorial that "there is no logic in rushing to expand an alliance that is still in search of a new purpose" deserves wider applause than it is likely to get. Unfortunately it conflicts with mainstream ideology. 
 As your editorial recalls, NATO was a creation of the cold war. Instead of preparing for the real challenges of the postwar era, such as the globalization of the economy, resources went into an unending effort to prepare for a military doomsday that was not in the cards.
We still misread the "lessons" of the cold war, of which we consider ourselves the victors. We helped our adversaries defeat themselves and they helped to exhaust us on the common road to nowhere. The absurd notion, rightly rejected by you, that "NATO, should take the lead in incorporating Europe's new democracies into the Continental community," epitomizes our tenuous hold on historic reality.
 
MARK PRICEMAN
Larchmont, N.Y., Oct. 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (87%); GLOBALIZATION (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: PRICEMAN, MARK

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996



696 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: For Congress From Connecticut

 BODY:
Connecticut has long been fortunate in the generally high quality of its Congressional delegation, and once voters have chosen a House member, they tend to keep him or her in office a long time. All six Congressional races this year feature veteran incumbents. Here are our recommendations in three of the more competitive contests.
Fourth District (Fairfield County): During his first seven years in Congress, Christopher Shays, a Republican, was rightly celebrated for his commitment to political reform and progressive stands on social issues. But when his party took control of the House in 1994, Mr. Shays joined with Speaker Newt Gingrich to advance harsh elements of the G.O.P. agenda, including cutting Medicare excessively and ending welfare as an entitlement. 
 Still, Mr. Shays is not a Gingrich clone. He supported women's right to choose abortion, opposed repeal of the assault-weapons ban, championed a Congressional gift curb and helped defeat a phony campaign-finance reform bill that would have expanded the influence of wealthy individuals and special interests.
His Democratic challenger, William Finch, is a thoughtful Bridgeport City Councilman whom we could happily support under other circumstances. But Mr. Shays is a central figure among the moderate reformers on both sides of the aisle from whom we hope to hear more next year.
Fifth District (Danbury, Naugatuck Valley): The incumbent, Gary Franks, has been a reliable supporter of the G.O.P.'s assaults on the environment, gun control, abortion rights and funding for the arts. Having gained national notice as the first black Republican elected to the House since the Depression, Mr. Franks has become a popular speaker on the G.O.P. circuit for his willingness to blast affirmative-action programs. We greatly prefer his Democratic opponent, former State Senator James Maloney, whose balanced approach to social and economic issues seems more in tune with the needs of his district.
Sixth District (northwestern Connecticut): Nancy Johnson's independence and sensible approach to social problems has won our support over several campaigns. This year our feelings are more complicated. Our strong disagreement with some of her votes is balanced by our conviction that she is a valuable voice for moderation within a G.O.P. leadership that tilts far to the right. We believe the Medicare bill she helped develop was too harsh. As chairwoman of the Ethics Committee, she dawdled unconscionably before rallying the committee to appoint an independent counsel to conduct an impartial investigation of charges against Mr. Gingrich. We are hopeful that she will bring this inquiry to an honorable, credible conclusion.
The choice here is made doubly difficult because Mrs. Johnson's Democratic opponent, Charlotte Koskoff, has run a passionate and energetic campaign despite a shortage of campaign money and support from the Democratic organization. Even so, we support Mrs. Johnson. When Congress and the President finally get around to addressing explosive issues like entitlement reform, we would prefer to have thoughtful legislators on the G.O.P. side of the table.
House Republicans are badly in need of the measured leadership that we have come to associate with Mrs. Johnson at her best. We did not see enough of it in the 104th Congress. But she seems to have learned from her missteps.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 31, 1996, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An editorial yesterday referred erroneously to Representative Gary Franks, Republican of Connecticut, as an opponent of abortion rights. Mr. Franks is pro-choice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) MEDICARE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) MEDICARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ENDORSEMENTS; ELECTIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); WOMEN (76%); ETHICS (75%); MEDICARE (74%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); GUN CONTROL (70%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (68%); ABORTION (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (51%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, NANCY L (REPR); SHAYS, CHRISTOPHER (REPR); MALONEY, JAMES CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996



697 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1791 words

HEADLINE: Writing Policies In Cities Once Written Off;
Protest and Possible Profit Bring Back the Insurers

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
On a chill, gray morning seven months ago, State Farm raised its red and white banner in the heart of Harlem, on 125th Street, where shops like Ben & Jerry's and Capezio's alternate with boarded-up buildings, storefront churches, luncheonettes and used-furniture stores. It was the first time the company, the country's biggest insurer of homes and automobiles, had ventured into the neighborhood.
Most other big insurers had also given Harlem a wide berth. So when Linda Burchett, a former claims adjuster, opened the agency's doors, customers flocked in. 
 In three months, starting with no leads, she sold 50 homeowner policies. By now she has insured more than 100 homes and has sold scores of auto and life policies, becoming one of State Farm's top rookie agents.
Ms. Burchett, a small, engaging woman with two assistants, one of whom speaks Spanish, is at the leading edge of a movement: After years of pleading, lawsuits and political pressure from residents and advocacy groups, the insurance industry is rediscovering the inner city.
Companies that virtually wrote off the urban core in favor of the suburbs and wealthy pockets of cities -- where insurers say crime and the risk of fire are lower -- now say they see opportunity in Harlem and other communities populated mainly by poor and working-class families, many of them black or Hispanic.
Indeed, for some, business has been brisk. Agents in the Bronx and Brooklyn rank even higher in State Farm's national standings than Ms. Burchett does. Monica Williams, an Allstate manager, says sales have exceeded expectations at an office her company opened in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn in August.
The refusal by insurers to sell policies in certain areas, a practice often called redlining, attracted national attention four years ago when California regulators discovered that nearly half the homes and businesses damaged in the riots in south Los Angeles were not insured.
Since then advocacy groups have mounted protests in New York, Chicago, St. Louis and more than two dozen other cities. They have marched and chanted in front of insurance offices and at a meeting of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. They have instigated public hearings in which people have told stories of being unable to obtain insurance. And Democrats in Congress have pushed for legislation to make insurance more available and affordable in the inner city.
Posing as customers, members of the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, or ACORN, and the National Fair Housing Alliance found that agents were five times as likely to refuse to sell insurance to residents of poor urban neighborhoods as to those in higher-income, mainly white, areas. And when policies were offered, they were often twice as expensive as those available elsewhere.
Even as insurers open offices in urban areas from which they have long been absent, some of the disparities persist. In Harlem, State Farm charges $630 annually for a standard homeowner's policy on a $100,000 wood-frame house; if a house could be found for that price in the wealthy suburb of Scarsdale, N.Y., a policy would cost $309. In Philadelphia, the homeowner's unit of the Prudential Insurance Company of America charges $654 a year to insure a brick home of that value; in suburban Montgomery County the rate is $318.
Company officials say the price disparities reflect higher risks in the cities.
But regulators say such calculations may be skewed. Because so few policies have been sold in the inner city, said John Calagna, a spokesman for the New York State Insurance Department, there is no real sense of what the risk is. "If they wrote more policies in the inner city," Mr. Calagna said, "the companies would see that the losses in Harlem would be about the same as in Scarsdale."
ACORN, too, argues that insurers have long overstated the risk of urban coverage. But it says that whatever the risk may be, it can be lowered through education and the use of smoke detectors and anti-theft devices.
Several court battles have gone against insurers, and other cases have been settled through negotiation. Last year, the American Family Mutual Insurance Company of Madison, Wis., agreed to pay $14.5 million to settle a suit in Milwaukee. Plaintiffs' lawyers said the company's conduct was exemplified by a note from a supervisor to an agent to "quit writing all those blacks." And this summer, State Farm, which insures nearly one out of four homes in the country, agreed to sweeping changes in its national sales practices to resolve a discrimination complaint by the National Fair Housing Alliance in Toledo, Ohio.
In that agreement, State Farm promised to open more urban offices and said it would no longer consider the age and value of a home as barriers for issuing policies. Shanna L. Smith, executive director of the Fair Housing Alliance, said such practices had been widespread in the industry and had denied full coverage to many urban homeowners.
Other companies are changing their practices, as well. Allstate, beyond mirroring the steps taken by State Farm, will now sell insurance covering the full cost of replacing a home. Without such coverage, Ms. Smith said, people sometimes decide not to rebuild after a fire, contributing to the decline of cities.
Still, the industry's critics are not letting up. Some of the biggest companies are trying to fend off complaints to the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development. And more lawsuits are pending, such as one in Missouri that accuses 23 insurers, including Allstate, Prudential and several subsidiaries of the Chubb Corporation, of discrimination in the marketing of policies in St. Louis and Kansas City.
While many companies acknowledge that city dwellers have often found it difficult to get coverage, they deny that they deliberately discriminated. It has been a question not of race or class, they say, but of economics. "When folks started migrating from the cities to the suburbs, we followed them," said Philip D'Achille, a senior vice president at Prudential.
As time went on, insurers shied away from the cities, executives say privately, for much the same reason that many now try to sell fewer policies in coastal areas. No matter what they charge, they say, they worry that huge claims could swamp them.
Most industrial states, including New York, tried to fill the void by establishing special insurance plans for property owners in poor urban areas. But these plans, called FAIR -- for Fair Access to Insurance Requirements -- provide only bare-bones coverage and cost at least 20 percent more than standard policies. Because of the cost and inferior coverage, advocates say, some people choose to go uninsured. Others are simply not aware of the plans.
Today, as they strive to sell more policies in the inner city, many insurers are teaming up with community groups -- including some of their harshest critics -- both to reach out to a ready pool of potential customers and to conduct seminars on protecting homes from fire and theft.
ACORN is working directly with Prudential in Philadelphia and with the Travelers/Aetna Property Casualty Corporation in Baltimore. Both companies have agreed to offer homeowners' policies at a discount to residents who join ACORN, attend a safety seminar and install security devices. Allstate and the Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company are also working with community groups in half a dozen cities.
Whether such efforts are necessary is not clear. Bruce Macdonald, president of the Roland B. Macdonald Agency in Boston, said he had been selling homeowners' policies from Aetna and a local company in the inner city for years, with losses generally no higher than for policies he sells in the suburbs.
"Many people in the city see their home as their entry to the middle class," Mr. Macdonald said. "They've worked very hard to make the down payment. They don't want losses. They install alarms and watch over each other's property. That's not always the case in the suburbs."
Many insurance executives say they see the inner city as a new marketing frontier. Travelers/Aetna officials, for example, say they began recruiting agents in half a dozen cities after studying Census Bureau projections showing that the fastest-growing parts of the population were black, Hispanic and Asian.
"You look at which market segments are growing," said Donald W. Davis, who is in charge of urban markets for Travelers, "and you say, 'Wow, here's an opportunity.' "
In the last year, State Farm has set up shop not only in three inner-city areas in New York but also in Cleveland, Atlanta and several other cities. Besides its office in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Allstate has opened agencies in inner-city parts of Detroit, Cleveland, Atlanta and -- as of tomorrow -- Dallas. Nationwide has gone into Chicago, San Antonio and Baltimore.
Still, insurers are moving at less than full speed. Most new urban offices are small -- often with one or two people -- and the vast majority of the 1,100 American companies that sell homeowner insurance are still on the sidelines. In its inner-city recruiting, Travelers/Aetna has added 18 agents to its nationwide sales force of 7,000.
The companies say they are merely being prudent, testing the waters before making big commitments.
Critics, however, say the answer can be found in simple economics. Even though the cities constitute new sales possibilities, one industry expert said, going after wealthier customers continues to make more sense financially. "The insurance companies don't really want to be in the inner city," said the expert, who insisted on not being identified, out of concern for damaging his relationships with insurers. "It takes the same amount of effort to sell a $50,000 policy as it does to sell one for $300,000. Agents work on commission. What would you rather have, the commission on the $50,000 sale or the one for $300,000?" -- though in New York City, even homes in poorer areas can cost that much.
Even at companies doing well in the cities, some executives say there is more money to be made in the suburbs. But earnings, they allow, are not everything.
"There is also this social obligation as a corporate citizen," said Leo J. Jordan, a vice president and senior lawyer for State Farm who negotiated with the National Fair Housing Alliance in the Toledo discrimination case. "The private sector cannot get away with purely economic considerations. You're certainly trying to make as much profit as you can. But the political and community pressure is on you to invest part of your assets and capital in less than promising markets. This is a major consideration."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 31, 1996, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A map in Business Day yesterday showing the number of homes insured through a last-resort insurance plan in each ZIP code area of New York City misidentified a neighborhood in Queens that has a high concentration of such homes. It is Far Rockaway; East Rockaway is in Nassau County.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Business has been brisk for Linda Burchett since she opened a State Farm office seven months ago on 125th Street in Harlem, a community where most big insurers have long been without presence. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 
Map: "CASE STUDY: NEW YORK"
 Homeowners who cannot get insurance from commercial carriers turn to an insurer-of-last-resort FAIR plan run by the New York Property Insurance Underwriting Association. A map of the plan's policies by zip code finds most are in minority areas.
 
BRONX
 Properties in largely white eastern and northwestern corners rarely need FAIR plan coverage. In the heart of the borough, where white residents are rare, FAIR plan coverage is common.
 
HARLEM
 Nearly all the Manhattan properties insured through the FAIR plan are in nine uptown zip codes where non-Hispanic whites make up less than 25 percent of the population.
 
BROOKLYN
 By far the city's largest concentrations of homes covered by the FAIR plan are in low-income, high-crime areas whose residents are nearly all black and Hispanic, like East New York, Bedford-Stuyvesant and parts of Williamsburg.
 
JAMAICA AND EAST ROCKAWAY
 The only large areas of Queens where the FAIR plan insures many residences are also home to most of the borough's low-income black residents.
 
Map of the five boroughs of New York City shows number of residential properties in each zip-code area insured under the FAIR plan.
 
(Source: New York State Insurance Department)
 
Map/Table: "CASE STUDY: ST. LOUIS"
 The Missouri Department of Insurance says major insurance companies have made it more costly -- and in some cases impossible -- for low-income, minority homeowners in urban areas to purchase policies. In the files of the Farm Bureau Town and Country Insurance Comapny, for example, investigators found a map, above, labeling the heavily black city of St. Louis as "ineligible" for insurance sales. The state also found that minority homeowners in low-income St. Louis neighborhoods were far more likely than whites to be sold limited fire insurance policies rather than comprehensive homeowners' coverage -- but nonetheless paid more per $1,000 in coverage.
 Table lists percent of homeowners in low-income St. Louis neighborhoods who have various types of insurance policies. (Source: Missouri Department of Insurance) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (91%); ALLSTATE CORP (58%); BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); BROOKLYN (NYC); BRONX (NYC); MISSOURI; ; CALIFORNIA; LOS ANGELES (CALIF); ST LOUIS (MO); CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; INDUSTRY PROFILES; BLACKS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); HISPANIC-AMERICANS ; HOUSING INSURANCE (93%); CITY LIFE (91%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (90%); CITIES (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (76%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (76%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); LIFE INSURANCE (76%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (75%); RIOTS (73%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (73%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (73%); LITIGATION (72%); INSURANCE CLAIMS ADJUSTING (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); SUBURBS (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); FAMILY (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); FURNITURE STORES (57%); 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B LINDA BURCHETT (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996



698 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Baring Teeth In the Drug War

BYLINE: By Joshua Wolf Shenk; Joshua Wolf Shenk is a Washington correspondent for The Economist.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Bob Dole calls President Clinton's drug policies "soft" and "liberal," a betrayal of what he says is the successful legacy of Presidents Ronald Reagan and George Bush. In fact, the Clinton Administration has taken the Republican drug war to soaring new heights of Draconian ineffectiveness.
To see the distance we've traveled, consider the remarks of President Reagan in an Aug. 1, 1986, interview, published in his Presidential papers. When asked if he supported mandatory drug testing for Federal employees, Mr. Reagan replied, "I have great concerns." He said that, except for employees like air traffic controllers and Federal agents who carry guns, "I would rather see a voluntary program." 
 Should drug users go to jail? "No," he replied. "I think we should offer help for them." Should drug dealers be executed? Mr. Reagan said that while he favored it personally, such a proposal would "divide our ranks" and "would be counterproductive."
The contrast between these comments and President Clinton's positions are extraordinary. "Our message should be simple: No drugs or no driver's license," the President said in asking that all 16- and 17-year-olds be tested for drugs before getting a driver's license. The Administration has talked about cutting off welfare mothers and imprisoning parolees who fail drug tests.
On the campaign trail, Mr. Clinton has bragged that his 1994 crime package expands the death penalty for drug dealers. And his latest budget for anti-drug efforts is $15.1 billion, compared with $4.7 billion in 1988.
 That President Clinton is more severe on drugs than Mr. Reagan shows the narrow prism of ideas that makes up the drug war. When the get-tough policies don't work, invariably the response has been to get even tougher: longer mandatory prison sentences, broader interdiction efforts and more money for law enforcement. We heard such calls from both parties after the Department of Health and Human Services reported that marijuana use by teen-agers rose by 141 percent and that overall drug use nearly doubled between 1992 and 1995 despite big spending increases on interdiction and law enforcement.
The alternatives to the get-tough strategies, meanwhile, have never really been tried. During the 1992 Presidential campaign, Mr. Clinton promised drug treatment on demand. Yet while 67 percent of this year's anti-drug money is going to interdiction and law enforcement, Federal spending on treatment has increased only slightly in his Administration. And there has been little or no Federal support for programs that distribute clean needles, supply methadone to heroin addicts and provide counseling for addicts at a high risk of contracting AIDS and other diseases.
Still, Mr. Clinton is accused of being "soft" on drugs, and he responds as if he believes it. So the cycle continues, as politicians endorse harsh punishments and shortchange strategies that might make a real difference.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; ELECTION ISSUES DRUG TESTING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); DRUG INTERDICTION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CHILD & TEEN SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); SENTENCING (75%); PRISONS (74%); PAROLE (74%); WORKPLACE SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (73%); HEROIN (73%); CANNABIS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); CIVIL SERVICES (70%); BUDGETS (70%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB; SHENK, JOSHUA WOLF BILL CLINTON (94%); RONALD REAGAN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996



699 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Home Desk 

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: Currents;
The (Quiet) Return Of the 'Barbarians'

BYLINE: By Timothy Jack Ward 

 BODY:
JUST a few years back, when it seemed furniture design couldn't get any nuttier, Neotu, the Paris-based gallery of art furniture, closed its SoHo branch, perhaps chastened by recession and the appetite for shabby comfort. The gallery is making a quiet comeback in a gentler venue: the walkup of its owners, Gerard Dalmon, left, and Pierre Staudenmeyer, at 409 West 44th Street. An appointment is recommended, but it is worth a visit to see new designs by Bonetti & Garouste and other once-intimidating "New Barbarians," which look just shy of cheery. Neotu, (212) 262-9250, will exhibit at the Seventh Regiment Armory modernism show, Nov. 13 through Nov. 17.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 OTHER BUSINESS SERVICES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); FRANCE (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

COMPANY: NEOTU (FRENCH CO) BUSINESS FURNITURE INC (93%); SEVENTH REGIMENT (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEOTU (FRENCH CO) SEVENTH REGIMENT (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (77%); FRANCE (72%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

SUBJECT: FURNITURE MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (88%); 

PERSON: WARD, TIMOTHY JACK PIERRE STAUDENMEYER (64%); GERARD DALMON (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



700 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
British Raise an Interest Rate; Sterling Soars Against Dollar

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar ended mostly lower yesterday, falling to a 19-month low against the British pound.
Sterling surged after the Bank of England impressed the market by increasing interest rates. 
 In late trading in New York, the pound jumped to $1.6337, up nearly 2 percent from $1.6070 on Tuesday and the highest level since March 1995.
Earlier in the day, the British central bank raised its base lending rate a quarter-point, to 6 percent. It was the first such increase since February 1995 and increased the attractiveness of assets denominated in pounds.
The governor of the Bank of England, Eddie George, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Kenneth Clarke, said the move was intended to thwart inflationary pressure on the growing British economy.
And Jim Phoenix, head of foreign-exchange sales at CIBC Wood Gundy in New York, said: "The pound's strength has definitely been the dominant factor in the market today. I think it took people by surprise."
Although some expectations of a British rate increase had played a role in the pound's recent strength, many traders thought a move might not come until next year, perhaps not until after the next general election, which must be called by May.
In other trading in New York yesterday, the dollar fell to 113.94 Japanese yen from 114.34 yen on Tuesday. It finished slightly higher against the German mark, an indirect result of the mark's weakness against the pound. The dollar traded at 1.5109 marks, up from 1.5100 marks on Tuesday.
A notable exception in the dollar's mostly weaker showing yesterday was its rise against the Mexican peso, which dropped to the weakest level since Mexico's economic crisis nearly two years ago. The peso fell in New York to a rate of 8.00 to the dollar, compared with 7.93 to the dollar on Tuesday.
Traders said the weakness reflected anxiety about the stamina of Mexico's economic recovery and fear on the peso's future direction. Many investors were protectively shifting assets out of pesos and into dollars as a result. Putting further pressure on the peso was a demand for dollars by Mexican corporations and banks seeking to meet end-of-month obligations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; GREAT BRITAIN; MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); BRITISH POUND (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GERMAN MARK (86%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); ELECTIONS (70%); 

PERSON: KENNETH CLARKE (57%); EDDIE GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



701 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Home-Sales Report Sends Bonds Lower

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury prices turned lower yesterday, hurt by a housing sales report that was stronger than expected.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 10/32, to 100 20/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.70 percent from 6.68 percent on Monday. 
 Bond prices were bolstered in morning trading by a report showing a sharp slowdown in third-quarter gross domestic product. The growth rate of 2.2 percent was within market expectations, but it was still much slower than the 4.7 percent annual pace seen in the second quarter. The report showed moderate growth and tame inflation, suggesting that the Federal Reserve may not need to raise short-term interest rates later this year.
Carl Palash, chief economist at MCM MoneyWatch, pointed to the soft final sales and balanced inventory in the G.D.P. report.
"This combination points to continued modest growth in the fourth quarter," Mr. Palash said. "I think that the G.D.P.'s composition will shift in the fourth quarter and show stronger final sales and less inventory investment. Along with the recent rally, this will set the stage for stronger growth in early 1997. So this should keep the Fed on hold for the rest of the year, but with a risk that it will tighten next year."
But that report was soon overshadowed by one concerning new-home sales. The Commerce Department reported that new-home sales fell five-tenths of 1 percent in September to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 816,000. The report showed the resiliency of the housing market, since bond traders and analysts had been expecting a much sharper drop.
Mr. Palash said the figures in the home sales report were surprisingly robust and did not show the same kind of weakness that other housing data have shown.
"If these figures are correct," he said, "then the drag from residential construction should be over soon." Market expectations were for an annualized number of 750,000 to 775,000 units.
But the market's view of subdued growth was seen in yet another report yesterday, the Federal Reserve's survey of business conditions around the country. The report, known as the beige book, showed the economy continuing to grow at a moderate pace, but it was less upbeat than the beige book survey released on Sept. 17.
Mr. Palash said the beige book assessment indicated an uneven economy, but not one that was particularly weak. It still suggested that the economy was moving ahead at a moderate pace, something the market disapproved of since it was expecting a weaker report.
The market must still deal with some important data in the next two days, among them the figures on employment set for release on Friday. "I'm expecting a moderate 150,000 rise in payroll," Mr. Palash said. "And I believe the market will end the week in good or better shape."
Nancy Kimmelman, chief economist at Technical Data of Boston, noted that yesterday's data did not provide obvious confirmation to Tuesday's better-than-expected employment cost figures.
"Demand was weak," she said, "and granted there was no price pressure in G.D.P., but the beige book indicated no easing of price pressures. So we head into Friday searching for the magic bullet that's either going to confirm or deny this question about wage cost pressures. I think the market has gone too far and I think wage pressures are more serious than the employment cost index indicated."
Also yesterday, the Treasury announced the size of its quarterly refunding next week, and said it would sell $18.5 billion of 3-year notes on Tuesday; $10 billion of an already issued 10-year note (with 9 years and 11 months remaining) on Wednesday, and $10 billion of 30-year bonds on Thursday. In when-issued trading the 3-year maturity was being offered at a price to yield 5.96 percent, the 10-year at a price to yield 6.41 percent and the 30-year, 6.66 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since July. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); BONDS (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); BOND MARKETS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); INVENTORIES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (64%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT CARL PALASH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



702 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Australia Is Set to Reduce Power of Unions

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Oct. 30

 BODY:
Australia is on the verge of a major overhaul of its restrictive industrial relations system next year after a compromise in Parliament. The overhaul reflects the coalition Government's drive to increase productivity and reduce union power.
The legislation, the Workplace Relations Bill, is a sweeping revision of a complex system of labor and industrial laws that have governed the workplace for some 90 years. The thrust of the measure gives employers greater flexibility to negotiate directly with employees on pay, hours and benefits. It also simplifies federal regulation of labor relations but not as much as the Government initially proposed. 
 Under the bill employees would be able to choose between individual nonunion contracts -- to be known as "workplace agreements" -- and so-called national industrial awards that set in concrete the terms and the conditions of employment, including the right to strike in a specific industry. Australia's system of labor awards is different from labor contracts in that the awards are handed down by an arbitration panel and govern general work rules in an industry. A labor contract generally goes a step further than an award by establishing a relationship between a company and a union.
Also under the bill, compulsory union membership would be abolished.
The legislation would undercut the industrial muscle of unions by encouraging workers and employers to forge individual contracts. At present almost 33 percent of workers are union members compared with about 15 percent in the United States.
The federal Government, a coalition of the Liberal and National Parties, Australia's major conservative parties, announced earlier this week that it had cleared the way for passage of the bill through the Senate, the upper house of the Parliament, after more than 50 hours of negotiations with a minor opposition party, the Democrats, which holds the balance of power in the Senate.
The new legislation is considered one of the most radical changes so far enacted by the conservative coalition Government, which came to power in March this year led by the Prime Minister, John Howard, after 13 years in opposition.
While the importance of collective bargaining has been undermined in the bill, it does invest greater power in Australia's premier workplace arbitration body, the Industrial Relations Commission, which oversees national union awards and industrial disputes.
The commission, which has the power of a federal court, can veto individual nonunion contracts between an employer and an employee if it finds that it would leave the worker worse off than traditional union awards.
The president of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, Jennie George, said the changes would make life more difficult for workers and unions.
Multinational companies and the Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry welcomed the bill as a step for Australia, which has a reputation for having one of the world's most highly unionized work forces.
But while manufacturing, mining and automotive industry employers agreed that the bill could increase performance and productivity, they said that widespread use of individual contracts would be introduced slowly and only if there was agreement on both sides that it was better than collective bargaining. Peter Reith, Minister for Industrial Relations, refused to set any employment targets under the new system, saying the benchmark for its success would be whether it led to higher productivity. For most of the year, unemployment has been running at 8.7 percent.
The 59-page agreement was signed by the Government and the Australian Democrats after the Government conceded to 180 changes.
As a result of the Democrat-imposed alterations, the proposed changes are not nearly as tough as the Howard Government would have liked. The changes are expected to take effect early next year.
Chris Meallim, the employer relations manager for the Melbourne operations of Holden, the Australian subsidiary of the General Motors Corporation, said the company was still analyzing the legislation, but "on the surface, it should have a lot going for it." But Mr. Meallim said the auto maker would not switch to individual contracts immediately because it had a highly satisfactory bargaining agreement that runs until 1998.
A spokesman for the energy and mining giant, the Broken Hill Proprietary Company, endorsed the package, saying it represented "a step forward." A spokesman said: "Our principal concern has been with outcomes rather than processes. We feel this change could facilitate an environment focused on productivity and performance."
A spokesman for the British-Australian mining company, the RTZ CRA Group, said employers welcomed the "greater flexibility." However, he pointed out that many companies were already moving into collective bargaining agreements and even individual contracts. The legislation provides a federal framework and will make such procedures easier.
Trevor Cook, an official with Jackson Wells Communications, a large public relations firm with some union and nonunion employees, said the bill represented a "fundamental turning point" in Australia's industrial relations system. "Employees will be hesitant to leave collective arrangements at first," he said, "but in the better workplaces, as trust is built up, more and more will want remuneration arrangements which rewards them as individuals, for their unique contributions." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

CITY: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA; AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LABOR UNIONS; WAGES AND SALARIES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; STRIKES LEGISLATION (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); VETO (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (77%); STRIKES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (64%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN HOWARD (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



703 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Merrill Lynch tries on a new image by promoting a museum's show about Leonardo da Vinci.

BYLINE: By Glenn Collins 

 BODY:
MERRILL LYNCH is bullish on Leonardo. Specifically, Leonardo da Vinci and the scientific manuscript he bequeathed to the world, known as the Codex Leicester. Merrill Lynch & Company is spending $300,000 on an advertising campaign to publicize the new celebration of the Codex at the American Museum of Natural History in Manhattan. The exhibition opened Saturday and will end Jan. 1.
That advertising budget is more than Merrill Lynch, the world's largest securities company, has ever spent on a museum exhibition; indeed, the Codex show is the first scientific presentation Merrill has ever sponsored. 
 "We are trying to project a different image," said Paul W. Critchlow, a senior vice president at Merrill Lynch. "We want everyone to know that we're an intelligent company with intellectual capabilities. The Leonardo show exhibits the work of a Renaissance genius who understood forces that were shaping the world. And we feel that we do exactly that for our clients."
In other words, the classic "bullish on America" image was fine for the 1970's and 1980's, "but now we want to be regarded not as the thundering herd but as a sophisticated adviser," Mr. Critchlow said. "People are very busy these days, and they need Merrill to help steer them through the tremendous explosion of information."
As for the American Museum of Natural History, the Leonardo show is the first instance of a corporate sponsor's running its own advertising campaign for an exhibition. "As a museum, we have a limited budget, yet we wanted to reach out to the broadest possible audience," said Jeanne Collins, the museum's vice president for communications. "We're grateful to Merrill for making this outreach possible."
There are actually two campaigns. The first, mounted by the brokerage firm, was produced in association with Bozell Worldwide, a unit of Bozell, Jacobs, Kenyon & Eckhardt, and is an extension of Merrill Lynch's national corporate campaign. The targets include New York-area print outlets like New York magazine, as well as national publications.
Merrill Lynch is also advertising internationally in magazines like The Economist, hoping to attract tourists to the only scheduled public showing of the Codex Leicester in the United States.
The second advertising campaign, mounted by the museum, was designed by LaPlaca Cohen Advertising in Manhattan. According to Linda Boff, the museum's director for marketing and promotion, the campaign focuses on such publications as The New Yorker, The New York Review of Books and The New Republic; this campaign will continue until Christmas in an attempt to attract holiday visitors to the city.
Merrill Lynch is also helping to pay for a 30-second television spot celebrating the exhibition. ("Stand in the presence of genius," the voice-over says.) The television campaign will run until Nov. 13.
The Leonardo show will be promoted in Merrill Lynch's mailings to retail clients, who will be able to use their Visa cards to receive discounts on the museum's Leonardo merchandise. Gift shop items include everything from scientific toys and a CD-ROM presentation of the Codex Leicester to pop-up Leonardo books, Codex scarves, Codex ties and, yes, a Codex mouse pad.
"We even offer Leonardo notebooks to people inspired to do their own writing." said Rena Zurofsky, the museum's director for licensing and retailing.
One difficulty in creating a campaign for the Leonardo Codex "was that we didn't want to draw crowds that thought they'd be seeing drawings and paintings by Leonardo," said Michael LaPlaca, co-founder of LaPlaca Cohen. "We wanted people to know they were seeing manuscripts."
As for the television advertisements, "we're trying to get across a feeling of the drama and mystery of Leonardo da Vinci," said Andrew S. Clayman, creative director of Mediaworks in Manhattan, which put together the 30-second spot. "Leonardo was a person who could bring us into the light."
Certainly a $300,000 campaign would be a drop in the marketing bucket for a giant corporation, but that total "is unusually generous for a museum exhibition," Schuyler G. Chapin, New York City's Commissioner of Cultural Affairs, said. "This is an excellent example of public-private partnership, highlighting an exhibition that is a true rarity, cutting across science and the arts."
To be sure, there could be some irony in associating Merrill Lynch's newly intellectual corporate image with Leonardo. The Codex demonstrates that, despite his acknowledged genius, the master was often wrong. "The point is that Leonardo sought to understand the way things work," said Mr. Critchlow of Merrill Lynch, "and it is much better to make that effort than not to." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (96%); MER (NYSE) (96%); 8675 (TSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (96%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (96%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (96%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (NYC); MERRILL LYNCH & CO MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (96%); BOZELL INC (81%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (NYC); MERRILL LYNCH & CO AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); HISTORY (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CHRISTMAS (72%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (69%); 

PERSON: DA VINCI, LEONARDO (1452-1519); COLLINS, GLENN LEONARDO CODEX (93%); PAUL W CRITCHLOW (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



704 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: China's Politics of Punishment

 BODY:
By sentencing the most prominent democratic activist of the Tiananmen Square generation to a new 11-year prison sentence yesterday, China's authoritarian Government once again demonstrated its intolerance of peaceful political dissent and its contempt for the United States. It is increasingly hard to see how Washington can move toward closer relations with a regime that so brazenly abuses human rights.
After high tensions with China over Taiwan earlier this year, the Clinton Administration has been trying to improve its relations with Beijing. If President Clinton wins re-election, Secretary of State Warren Christopher plans to use a late November stop in Beijing to arrange an exchange of state visits between Mr. Clinton and his Chinese counterpart, Jiang Zemin. 
 Those plans should be reconsidered. Yesterday's harsh sentencing of Wang Dan, which came just hours after a top State Department official completed talks in Beijing with Chinese leaders, was the latest move in a recent wave of repression.
Mr. Christopher will painfully recall that when he last visited Beijing, in 1994, China deliberately humiliated him by rounding up top democrats, including Wei Jingsheng, who had just met with State Department officials. There is no point in the Administration's again exposing its top diplomat, or the President himself, to such hostile behavior.
Wang Dan, who is 27, has already spent most of his young adulthood as a political prisoner. The new sentence means he will probably be incarcerated until he is nearly 40. Prosecutors absurdly argued that articles he wrote, including one for The New York Times, and a University of California correspondence course he took were part of an attempt to overthrow the Chinese Government.
Beijing seems to have designated Wang Dan for the same kind of lifetime persecution it has inflicted on Wei Jingsheng, founder of China's modern democracy movement. Mr. Wei served 14 1/2 years at hard labor for advocating political liberalization during the brief Democracy Wall era of the 1970's. Shortly after his release he was rearrested and is now serving a new 14-year sentence.
Earlier this month Beijing condemned Liu Xiaobo, a literary critic and Tiananmen Square veteran, to three years at hard labor for a petition criticizing President Jiang. Last month it sentenced another former student leader, Guo Haifeng, to seven years for "hooliganism."
China will not achieve political stability or an advanced economy by locking up those who call for open decision-making and liberty of thought. Nor will it develop warmer ties with American leaders by abusing the rights of its own people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT (60%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT (60%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS SENTENCING (92%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PRISONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); PETITIONS (70%); DISTANCE LEARNING (64%); LITERATURE (60%); LITERARY CRITICISM (50%); 

PERSON: WANG DAN BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



705 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: For Congress From New Jersey

 BODY:
New Jersey voters face interesting choices in several races, between Democrats pledging to overturn the radical Republican agenda and Republicans who describe themselves as fiscal conservatives but who also support the environment, gun control and abortion rights. Here are our endorsements in some competitive races in the state.
Fifth District (parts of Bergen, Sussex, Passaic and Warren counties): Representative Marge Roukema, a Republican, has ably represented the area since 1981 and has been an advocate of the environment, the arts, women's right to choose abortion, banning assault weapons and the Family Leave Act. She also helped save Sterling Forest. But her record is marred by an almost xenophobic tone on immigration issues, particularly her advocacy of a bill making English the nation's official language. Her Democratic opponent, Bill Auer, has waged a worthy campaign against long odds, but we endorse Mrs. Roukema in the hope that she will moderate her views on immigration. 
 Seventh District (Somerset, Union, Middlesex and Essex counties): Representative Bob Franks is an energetic Republican elected in 1992. His Democratic opponent, Larry Lerner, is a businessman with a record of civic activities and human rights work. Mr. Franks backed the excessive cuts in Medicare, Medicaid and welfare spending in the last Congress but was one of the strongest champions of the arts on Capitol Hill. He supports gun control, abortion rights and the ban on Congressional gifts and has tirelessly advocated Federal help to dredge the Port of New York and New Jersey.
His record on environmental issues has also been good, with one conspicuous exception -- a vote to weaken the Clean Water Act in 1995. Mr. Franks argues that this was a tactical move to protect other parts of the bill -- like curbing sewage dumping and testing water quality at beaches -- and lay the groundwork for killing the anti-environmental provisions in committee. Mr. Franks also has a good record on the harbor-dredging projects that are important to the area's economy and environment. We believe his overall record as a moderate coalition-builder merits his re-election.
Eighth District (parts of Passaic and Essex counties): Representative William Martini, a freshman Republican, is in a tough race with his Democratic challenger, William J. Pascrell Jr., the Mayor of Paterson and a member of the State Assembly. Mr. Martini voted for the Republican agenda on spending cuts but, like some other colleagues, broke with his party on campaign-finance reform and gun control. He has been strong on the environment and worked to save Sterling Forest. Mr. Pascrell, however, a traditional Democrat who believes in government programs and the old alliance of labor and minorities, could provide valuable support for urban issues. On balance, we favor Mr. Pascrell as better suited for the district's broad needs.
Ninth District (parts of Bergen and Hudson counties): Both Kathleen Donovan, a Republican, and Steve Rothman, a Democrat, are vigorous moderates in their 40's running for the seat now held by Representative Robert Torricelli, who is running for Senate. Ms. Donovan, the first woman to head the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, has pro-choice, pro-environment, pro-gun-control positions and is close to Gov. Christine Todd Whitman. She has the potential to build alliances with moderate Democrats and balance her party's rightward tilt. Mr. Rothman, a Surrogate's Court judge and former Mayor of Englewood, has an excellent future, but Ms. Donovan seems better positioned to work with moderates from both parties on the programs New Jersey needs.
12th District (central New Jersey): Michael Pappas, a conservative who opposes abortion and gun control, won a Republican primary election against two opponents who split the moderate vote. The district is now represented by the Republican Senate candidate, Richard Zimmer. The Democratic candidate, David Del Vecchio, the Mayor of Lambertville, is a fiscal conservative with an earnest manner and constructive views. Mr. Pappas, who declined to be interviewed by The Times, shows little promise of expanding beyond his narrow base. We endorse Mr. Del Vecchio.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) MEDICARE (55%); MEDICAID (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) MEDICARE (55%); MEDICAID (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENDORSEMENTS; EDITORIALS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTIONS CONSERVATISM (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ABORTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (77%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); WOMEN (72%); MEDICARE (71%); FAMILY (70%); IMMIGRATION (69%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL TESTING (63%); WATER QUALITY (62%); CITIES (60%); MEDICAID (57%); FAMILY LEAVE (55%); 

PERSON: ROUKEMA, MARGE (REPR); FRANKS, BOB (REPR); PASCARELL, WILLIAM J JR (MAYOR); DEL VECCHIO, DAVID M; DONOVAN, KATHLEEN A BILL PASCRELL JR (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



706 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Caracas Journal;
Where Gas Guzzlers Live On, Kings of the Road

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Oct. 25

 BODY:
When Salomon Romero bought his Chevy Malibu 22 years ago, it must have been a beautiful moment.
Back in 1974, Venezuela was flush with oil money, and gasoline flowed as easy and cheap as water. Venezuelans on shopping sprees in Miami were nicknamed damedos, or give me two's. American cars -- big, sturdy and unabashedly gas-guzzling -- were the country's badge of opulence. 
 But if Mr. Romero imagined that many new cars would follow the Malibu, he was wrong. The moneyed days of the 1970's proved a brief flash of plenty that would disappear before the decade was out. What would be left, other than the memories, would be the cars that wouldn't die: armies of Caprices and Valiants and El Dorados chugging across Venezuela.
In all but the wealthiest neighborhoods or towns, streets are filled with the six- or eight-cylinder workhorses sold here by United States auto makers. For America's gas crisis was Venezuela's oil boom. While big cars became the dinosaurs of Detroit, here they were embraced.
These days, Mr. Romero uses wires, paste and screws to patch the bits of his car that give out, and finds ingenious uses for whatever is beyond repair. A metal brace fastened inside the door jamb and running the width of the car props up the front seat, while the air-conditioning vents hold pens and disposable razors. A switch, instead of a key, turns on the ignition.
There is something sad, like a socialite in a frayed dress, about the legions of old cars that were considered luxuries when they were new. They still roll across Venezuela, but their bodies are rusted bare in spots, their hoods held down by string. To cut down glare, many have a dark purple film over the windows, with only a mask-like space left clear across the windshield.
With the profusion of outsized cars, and the difficulty of affording a smaller, sporty model, has come junker mystique. Their drivers say that big cars are safer and more powerful, and that parts are cheaper. Besides, added Cruz Urbano, who drives a 1982 Chevrolet Caprice in Porto Ordaz, "only women like smaller cars."
Most prominent among the arguments for ample metal is that as long as there are so many big cars on the road, it would be suicidal to drive anything smaller.
"Those Japanese cars look like they're disposable," said Juan Fernandez Veiga, a car dealer here. "One little knock and they're finished."
Francisco Gomez Oseja, a 61-year-old taxi driver here, said the hills around Caracas required a strong car. "If you have a small four-cylinder you can't do it."
A few years ago, the Government subsidized the purchase of small, fuel-efficient taxis in Caracas, he said. "You don't even see those cars on the street anymore," Mr. Gomez said.
Manoel Areilo, 23, a taxi driver in the gold-mining town of Tumeremo, in Bolivar State, said that because of the size of his 1980 Impala he did not worry much about the broken seat belts.
"Nothing can happen to you," he said confidently. "We're inside the car." His odometer, at 83,499 kilometers (51,885 miles), was still spinning. Asked how many times it had started back at zero, the driver's hand went hypnotically round and round.
Despite their age, Mr. Areilo added, the cars are subject to rigorous annual inspections. "They even inspect the paint," he insisted. A raised eyebrow and a yank of the dangling seat belt sufficed for him to reconsider. "Really, they're just checking for stolen cars," Mr. Areilo admitted.
Alberto Fernandez, a taxi driver in Caracas, said passengers preferred big cars. "You really only need a taxi for three reasons," he said. "In an emergency, to carry things and to get to the airport. For all those times, it's better to have a big car."
Mr. Fernandez stood by an unusually neat taxi stand in the upper-middle-class neighborhood of La Florida, where a row of taxis, clean and polished, demonstrated the importance of fine maintenance. His was the 1979 gray Malibu.
"Look how many are still on the road," he said. "I'm lucky to have it." At that moment, three gleaming Malibus rolled slowly down the street.
"It's not the year of the car that matters, it's the person who owns it," Mr. Fernandez said.
But even the drivers of the biggest cars dream small. A Toyota Corolla is considered the luxury car of the moment, though few here can afford a new Japanese import. "I hear that it has good pickup, and takes curves really well," Mr. Urbano said.
The popularity of big cars, said German Perez, president of the Automotive Chamber of Venezuela, an industry trade group, is not esthetic or even muscular. "It doesn't have to do with cylinders or models," he said. "The problem is the economic crisis and the standard of living."
The owners of big old cars say they could never buy something new, or even smaller, with the price they would get.
"A small car is very expensive," said Alejandro Vasquez, a taxi driver whose 1982 Ford Zephyr ran out of gas outside the airport in Santa Elena de Uairen, on the border with Brazil. He watched as Javier Rodriguez, who drove a compact taxi, siphoned gas from his tank to the Zephyr. "It's a fighter," he said, shaking his head and smiling at his vast, lumbering car.
Mr. Veiga, the car dealer, noted that an old car in reasonable shape runs about $3,000, while the cheapest Fiat compact costs more than $8,000 new. There are no popular finance plans or reasonable interest rates for buying a new car. And gasoline, even with a major increase last spring, is still 10 cents a gallon here.
That is why there will always be a solution, however inspired or doomed, to an aging car's latest ailment. For old cars may choke and sputter, but seldom die.

GRAPHIC: Photo: After guzzling every drop of gas, Alejandro Vasquez's 1982 Ford Zephyr halted outside the airport at Santa Elena de Uairen, Venezuela. A fellow taxi driver came to Mr. Vasquez's aid, siphoning gas from his own tank. (John Maier Jr. for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA; VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (61%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN CHEVY MALIBU (70%); SALOMON ROMERO (66%); JUAN FERNANDEZ VEIGA (65%); MANOEL AREILO (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



707 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS;
In His Own Words

 BODY:

BOB DOLE
 
Speaking yesterday in Clarksville, Tenn.:
"I want to stress something, because a lot of people in the media who don't understand the economy very well report on it. And they've been reporting all these past months, Oh, this is a great economy; it's tough for Bob Dole because the economy is so good. 
 "Well, let me tell you: Today I'm afraid the truth about the Clinton economy is getting easier to see and easier to understand, because let me tell you what happened. This morning we learned that our economy is slow and getting slower and slower and slower because third-quarter growth has fallen to a paltry 2.2 percent. Two-point-two percent. It has dropped in half since the second quarter. Now this is a real economic slowdown. And I might say it's disastrous news for American workers and businesses and even worse news for low- and middle-income Americans who have been squeezed and squeezed and squeezed by lower wages and higher taxes in this Administration.
"I'm afraid the bad news doesn't end there. The evidence of a weak, limping economy is everywhere -- everywhere."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



708 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Liberties;
Bal Harbour Dreamin'

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD 

DATELINE: CLARKSVILLE, Tenn.

 BODY:
Bob Dole grumbles that The New York Times is not looking with favor on the idea of a Dole Presidency.
That is simply not true. There is nothing more entertaining than the thought of a Dole Presidency. 
 Admittedly, it is hard to picture, given the disconcerting fact that, as I travel on the final stretch of the Dole campaign through Tennessee to New Orleans, I seem to have more events on my schedule than he does on his.
But perhaps, after his little chat with Abe Lincoln yesterday in Washington, recalling the meditative stop of his mentor, Richard Nixon, who went to the Memorial during the Vietnam War, perhaps after he teams up today with former Presidents Bush and Ford the desultory Dole will somehow miraculously pull it out.
The benefits of a Dole upset are twofold. First, we would be spared another Harry Thomason Kmart Inaugural spectacle crowning the Sun King, this one sure to be even more self-congratulatory than the weeklong tack-o-rama that marked Bill Clinton's bare plurality four years ago.
We would also have the exquisite pleasure of watching the Dole transition, or, as it would informally be known, Guy With a Grudge Gets Even.
It would be a tanning transition, of course, conducted from a lounge chair by the pool at the Bal Harbour condo. Mr. Dole would need to get some sun before his swearing-in. At times it seems that he has worked harder at crisping than campaigning, and his decision to contest California and Florida only makes sense in terms of SPF strategy. He appears blissfully unaware that he is turning a very strange color, an orangy shade alarmingly reminiscent of Strom Thurmond's hair.
For fast-paced, bloody payback, the Dole transition would rival "Carrie," the movie in which a teen-age wallflower destroys all her rivals in one telekinetic blast at the prom.
Just as Mr. Dole's inverted campaign was more about what he would not do than what he would do, so the transition would be more about who would not get jobs than who would.
You can just see the President-elect broiling in the Florida sun, in white T-shirt and baseball cap, punishing all the Republican "friends" who deserted him and mocked his campaign, openly and behind his back.
Imagine Bob Dole barking staccato instructions at his transition chief, Bob Dole.
"O.K., Bob Dole, let's get crackin'. Jack Kemp. Told the Republican governors the Dole race was finished but the Kemp race was just beginning. Not. Not Dole finished, Kemp finished. Finished. Finished. Washed up. Bye-bye. New policy: Cut back bloated government. No more Vice President's office in White House. Let him shuffle off to Buffalo. Buffalo. Also: note to Secret Service. Next time he does that stupid quarterback pump, break his arm.
"D'Amato. Weasel. Thanks for delivering New York. Keep away. And don't call me Dolie anymore. Not Treasury Secretary. Rudy. Mayor Hot Dog. Appreciated that last-second endorsement during the Yankees game. Lotta people payin' attention. The check for New York highway funds is in the mail. In the mail. In the mail.
"Gaghhd! Colin Powell. Big help. Thinks he's better than Bob Dole. Not Secretary of State. How 'bout Ambassador t' Guam?
"Newt. Thanks for the big help on Medicare, crybaby. 'Bout time for special prosecutor. Get Jaworski.
"Steve Forbes. Rich brat. Almost killed poor Bob Dole spending millions on attack ads in New Hampshire. Put him in charge of the I.R.S. Then abolish the I.R.S.
"Pete Wilson. Did a better job as Nixon's gofer. Not Secretary of Defense. And that cheesehead traitor, Tommy Thompson. Not Secretary of Health and Human Whatever.
"That mealy-mouthed Benedict Arnold, Don Sipple. Not head of the White House political office. Told Newsweek we had no strategy. Wasn't he the strategist?
"That nitwit Scott Reed. Persuaded Bob Dole to beg Ross Perot to drop out. Drop out. Drop out. Fat chance. Fat chance. Fat chance. Brown-nosing whippersnapper doesn't even know how to nail down a banister. Not head of the R.N.C.
"Liberal New York Times, tried to get Bozo re-elected. Take away their White House press passes. Put 'em on the enemies list. Enemies. Enemies. Enemies. O.K., long list here, let's get crackin' . . ."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); ATHLETES (63%); VIETNAM WAR (55%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; DOWD, MAUREEN BILL CLINTON (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



709 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Safeway Offers $1.6 Billion for the Rest of Vons

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Safeway Inc. said yesterday that it was offering to buy the two-thirds of the Vons Companies it did not already own in a $1.6 billion stock deal that would create a supermarket powerhouse on the West Coast.
Safeway, which operates 1,050 stores in California, Oregon, Washington and western Canada, currently owns 34.5 percent of Vons, a chain based in Arcadia, Calif. 
 The combined operations would have sales of more than $22.5 billion and 1,375 stores operating in 16 states, Washington, D.C., and Canada. The deal would cement Safeway's position as the No. 2 supermarket chain in the country, behind the Kroger Company of Cincinnati; Safeway is based in Pleasanton, Calif.
Vons, a leading food chain in Southern California, issued a terse statement yesterday, saying that "the proposal would be studied by a committee of outside directors of Vons, which will respond in due course."
The reaction by investors was more rapid. Shares of Vons rose 26 percent, or $11.219, to $54.344. Safeway stock fell $1.25, to $42.125. But based on Safeway's price of $41.75 a share on Tuesday, the deal valued Vons shares at about $56. Analysts generally regard Safeway as a well-run company where management has proved itself adept at improving the financial return on established operations.
"This is a good deal for Safeway," said George E. Thomson, an analyst at Prudential Securities Inc. "In a business where size counts a lot, they're significantly increasing their size in a demographically attractive market, Southern California, and they're doing it on a nondilutive basis."
Management at Vons has also undertaken a revamping effort that improved its profit margins in a very competitive but weak Southern California economy. Most analysts said that on its own, Vons stock price would have risen sharply over the next year, but that the Safeway bid would accelerate the process.
"In terms of merchandising or marketing, I don't know if there's a lot that Safeway brings to the table," said Edward F. Comeau, an analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Inc. "Safeway can help with streamlining and cutting corporate overhead."
Safeway offered to issue 1.34 shares for each share of Vons stocks it did not already own. Safeway would also assume about $700 million in debt. In a letter to Vons management, Safeway asked the company to consider the offer and to reply within two weeks. "The merger of these two companies will allow us to create a truly great company," said Steven Burd, the chief executive of Safeway. "We will be able to utilize the best of both companies and improve operational practices, systems, category management, procurement and private label."
Mr. Burd said he anticipated a friendly merger because the companies shared a similar outlook and some of the same directors. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, the leveraged buyout firm that owns 52 percent of Safeway's stock, is critical to the transaction. The firm favors the deal and has 2 of the 12 seats on the board of Vons, as well as 5 seats on the 10-member board of Safeway. There are also two Safeway executives on the Vons board.
Mr. Burd emphasized that there was no overlap between Safeway and Vons stores, and therefore, no potential regulatory problems and no threat of job losses. In the last four years, he said, Safeway has added 8,000 employees, while reducing the number of stores to 1,050 from 1,121.
"Safeway has had a significant increase in jobs and employee hours at Safeway's stores and would anticipate having the same experience with Vons," Mr. Burd said in a letter to the Vons board. "A successful implementation of this growth strategy at Vons should mean a continued increase in jobs at Vons stores."
But the years after the 1986 leveraged buyout of Safeway by Kohlberg Kravis were not so peaceful. By 1990, some 63,000 managers and workers had lost their jobs through job cuts and store sales. Mr. Burd led a new management team in 1992 that turned around the company and greatly improved sales and profits. Analysts estimated that Safeway sales would be about $17.2 billion this year, compared with $14.87 billion in 1990. At the same time, operating margins rose to 5.1 percent from 3.6 percent.
But expansion has been the order of the day in food retailing, and Kohlberg Kravis has been in the thick of it. In March, Royal Ahold N.V., the huge Dutch grocery retailer that owns the Edwards and Giant chains in the United States, announced that it would acquire the well-regarded Stop and Shop supermarket chain for $1.8 billion in cash. The deal made Royal Ahold the biggest food retailer east of the Mississippi, and it made Kohlberg Kravis a fortune. The firm had bought Stop and Shop in 1988 for $1.45 billion.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "One Supermarket's Shopping List" tracks sales and net income of the Vons Companies and Safeway, since 1991. (Sources: Company reports) (pg. D4); "A Market Mover" tracks monthly closes of the Vons Companies shares, since 1991. (Source: Datastream) (pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SWY (NYSE) (98%); KR (NYSE) (70%); KKR (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (98%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (98%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (63%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); OREGON, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SAFEWAY INC; VONS COMPANIES INC; KROGER CO SAFEWAY INC (98%); VONS COS INC (91%); KROGER CO (70%); PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES GROUP INC (66%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (63%); KKR & CO LP (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAFEWAY INC; VONS COMPANIES INC; KROGER CO

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); OREGON, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (78%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; SUPERMARKETS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (92%); MERGERS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRIVATE LABELS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (64%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; BURD, STEVEN STEVEN A BURD (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



710 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
On clear-cutting, economists can't see the forest or the trees.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
THE issue drawing many voters to the polls in Maine next week will not be taxes, Medicare or Presidential ethics, but clear-cutting: the practice of harvesting acres of timber at a time rather than selectively culling mature trees.
That should be no great surprise: Clear-cutting wood is hardly more controversial than clear-cutting corn in northern Maine where paper is king, but has become anathema to the L. L. Bean crowd in the south. What may come as a surprise is how little is really understood about the underlying economics. Or, for that matter, how uneasy economists are in dealing with any issue involving long-term environmental values. "After decades of debate, there is still drastic disagreement in how to weigh obligations to generations not yet born," notes Paul Portney, president of Resources for the Future in Washington. 
 Clear-cutting the Maine forest was initially an uncontroversial response to a natural phenomenon, an infestation of the spruce budworm in the 1970's that forced owners to use it or lose it. But necessity is still the mother of invention, and the industry quickly adopted gigantic machines that made clear-cutting the cheapest method of harvesting by far. And in 1989, responding to complaints that the practice was both unattractive and unsustainable, Maine effectively limited it to parcels under 35 acres.
It thus came as a shock when Maine's tiny Green Party managed to collect enough signatures to put an initiative barring all clear-cutting in the vast expanses of privately owned woods that lie outside organized towns. With the backing of the paper industry, Maine's political establishment quickly responded with an initiative of its own, one that would tighten restrictions on clear-cutting everywhere in the state and end it entirely on plots over 75 acres. Polls show this Compact for Maine Forests is likely to defeat both the total ban and an alternative no-ban initiative put on the ballot by a group of smaller land owners.
No shock there. The Compact group is selling limited clear-cutting as a job-saver that is compatible with sustainable mixed use of the forest. And the state backed the argument with a study estimating that the outright ban would reduce the fiber extracted from Maine's forests by 36 percent a year. Since only part of the loss would be made up from imports from other states, Maine's mills would be left with 19 percent less pulp to process. This, in turn, would destroy some 15,000 jobs.
But the study is deeply flawed, argues Spencer Phillips, an economist at the Wilderness Society in Washington (which takes no position on the ballot question). For one thing, it makes very strong assumptions about the difficulty of adjusting technology in the face of a ban on clear-cutting. For another, it assumes that people in the timber and paper products industries who initially lost their jobs would never work again. "Either they work in the mills or do nothing," he says.
That certainly has not happened in Oregon, however, which quickly recovered from the loss of forestry jobs after logging was restricted in 1991 to spare the habitat of the spotted owl. Nor, for that matter, has it happened in American industry as a whole, which has been re-engineering at a ferocious rate.
In any case, Mr. Phillips notes, Maine will lose forest products jobs whether or not it restricts clear-cutting. Extrapolating from the experience of the last two decades, he expects the state to lose about 750 forest jobs a year to labor-saving technological change. In an odd twist, the ban on clear-cutting may actually slow the brawn drain because it will inhibit capital-intensive harvesting methods and deter modernization of the paper mills. "Job losses are a red herring in this debate," he concludes.
The deeper problem here is how to think about management of the Great Northern Forest, which blankets northern New England and New York. There is no inherently natural use since virtually all the first-growth timber is gone and the mix of biological life has changed radically in the last two centuries. Nor is there even a clear sense of what uses are sustainable since ecological effects take many decades to play out. There is even a possibility that plant and animal diversity is buttressed by clear-cutting that creates patches of brushland.
The real monster in the box, though, is how to balance tangible benefits (timber, recreation, watershed protection) and intangible ones like species survival. Worse: how to weigh the interests of those living today against the interests of future generations. These questions are hardly new, but the stakes grow ever larger.

GRAPHIC: Drawing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: WILDERNESS SOCIETY MEDICARE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: WILDERNESS SOCIETY MEDICARE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE; UNITED STATES (97%); MAINE, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; LOGGING INDUSTRY; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; REFERENDUMS LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); LAYOFFS (85%); POLITICS (78%); ETHICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); PAPER & PACKAGING (76%); PAPER MFG (76%); WILDERNESS (73%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



711 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Christopher to Go Ahead With Visit to China

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 30

 BODY:
Calling the battle for human rights and democracy in China a "long-term struggle," the Clinton Administration today condemned the harsh sentence meted out to a former student leader, Wang Dan, but said Secretary of State Warren Christopher's visit to China in mid-November would go ahead as scheduled.
American officials acknowledged that the timing of the verdict was embarrassing, coming only hours after a midlevel American delegation sent to prepare for Mr. Christopher's visit left Beijing after discussions that included human rights and Mr. Wang in particular. 
 Abuses of human rights in China, and Mr. Wang's case, will be an important topic for Mr. Christopher, and for President Clinton when he meets the Chinese President, Jiang Zemin, in Manila on Nov. 24.
But the senior American officials added that other issues were also important, including North Korean belligerence, nuclear nonproliferation and arms sales to Pakistan and Iran, Chinese concerns about an American-Japanese security treaty and continuing tensions between India and Pakistan.
The Administration is trying to build a relationship with China that will not be hostage to any particular issue, the officials said.
Denying that they were playing down human rights, the officials said they were looking ahead to a possible visit to Beijing this year by Vice President Al Gore, followed by an exchange of summit meetings between Mr. Jiang and Mr. Clinton, probably in 1997 and 1998.
Moreover, the United States is talking to the Chinese about a larger "package" on human rights that could include the release or medical parole of noted dissidents, prison visits to Chinese detainees by the International Committee of the Red Cross and a "more structured channel" to raise human rights concerns with Beijing.
In exchange, the United States might be willing to drop its co-sponsorship of an annual United Nations resolution condemning Chinese human rights practices. The United States has failed to win support for the resolution for the last seven years, and some American officials regard the exercise as increasingly sterile.
"But if we are going to back off on the resolution, we need real systemic progress on human rights," a senior American official said today. "If we get enough of a package to pass the red-face test, then some in the Administration would favor it."
This topic was among those discussed with the Chinese by the American officials who left Beijing just before the Wang verdict.
Beijing also cares deeply about the presidential visits themselves, a permanent renewal of the most-favored-nation trading status for China, making yearly or biannual renewals unnecessary, and Chinese membership on favorable terms in the World Trade Organization.
Stanley Roth, formerly Asia director of the National Security Council and now at the United States Institute for Peace, said that the Chinese also wanted stronger military-to-military relations, including access to some American technologies, and that most of these benefits "just won't be doable without some real improvement on human rights" and regional issues, like Taiwan.
Good relations "are not just about good feelings," he said. "Both countries have to benefit."
A senior American official said that the Chinese have been unresponsive on human rights issues no matter what the American strategy, a stand he attributed to political and economic uncertainty in China, where competing factions cannot show weakness on questions of national security and sovereignty.
"Human rights remains on our agenda," the official continued. "We try to approach this in a productive way and so far they're not responding. We know they want better relations, and we've made it clear the full scope of our relationship cannot be realized so long as we have this sorry performance on human rights."
Criticism of the American policy was muted. Bob Dole's campaign did not comment on the Wang case. Even Human Rights Watch/Asia, which has long urged a resolute response to human rights abuses in China, said the Wang verdict made it more vital that Mr. Christopher go to Beijing. Its Washington director, Mike Jendrzejczyk, said that human rights should be "a top issue on his agenda and that he make it clear that any possibility of a presidential summit is dependent on China making serious progress on human rights both in China and Tibet."
"The Chinese read the Administration as downplaying human rights in the relationship," Mr. Jendrzejczyk said.
James R. Lilley, a former Ambassador to China, said: "The major motive is to take a high-profile dissident and break him as a message to other dissidents that they will pay a high price. The second message is, 'Don't count on the Americans to help you.' And the security apparatus wants to tell Christopher that 'importuning is unwelcome, you Americans are living in a different world and we have support in Asia for our policies.' "
Michael D. McCurry, Mr. Clinton's spokesman, deplored the verdict today, saying, "We continue to stress that we believe that freedom of expression as recognized by the Declaration on Human Rights is the hallmark of any civil society." He was referring to a 1948 United Nations human rights accord.
Asked if Mr. Clinton could point to any demonstrable gains on human rights issues from his policy of constructive engagement with the Chinese, Mr. McCurry said:
"It's been very tough going in the area of human rights. There has not been progress that the President would see as sufficient. But the struggle for human rights, for freedom and for democracy is clearly one that is a long-term struggle when it comes to societies that are having a hard time adjusting to the realities of the world we now live in."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); PAKISTAN (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); PAKISTAN (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); SENTENCING (89%); PAROLE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); ARMS TRADE (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (67%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); 

PERSON: WANG DAN; ERLANGER, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CHRISTOPHER, WARREN M (SEC) BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



712 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Bethlehem Decides to Leave The Structural Steel Market

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
The Bethlehem Steel Corporation, the last major steel producer to do battle with the minimills for the structural steel market, has conceded defeat. The company said yesterday it would sell four unprofitable units, including its structural steel mill.
If it cannot find buyers, the company said, it will close the operations, perhaps as soon as early next year. 
 Bethlehem will take a $375 million charge against fourth-quarter earnings to account for the dispositions and for a write-off of its coke operations as an "impaired asset" -- an accounting term for an asset that will never be worth its book value.
The earnings charges come at a bad time. Bethlehem's third-quarter earnings, also announced yesterday, were $11 million, less than a third of the $34 million it had in the comparable quarter last year. Revenues slipped 4.1 percent to $1.17 billion, from $1.22 billion for the third quarter of 1995. Low steel prices, soggy demand and a $15 million restructuring charge related to the sale of a coal mine combined to produce the lackluster results.
But Bethlehem's announcements did not faze analysts. The entire steel industry is suffering intense competition from imports and minimills, and Bethlehem's operating profits, about $21 a ton, are competitive.
Indeed, investors were untroubled by Bethlehem's decision to leave the market for "long steel" -- beams, angles and other shapes that minimills make more efficiently -- and concentrate again on its core business, flatrolled sheet steel. The company's stock closed unchanged on the New York Stock Exchange at $8.
"This is a positive move that is long overdue," Richard Aldrich, an analyst with Lehman Brothers, said.
Bethlehem did try hard to save its structural steel business, even after U.S. Steel, Inland and others gave up. Environmental and pension liabilities make it expensive to close steel plants. Moreover, the mills had a positive cash flow and, prior to the last recession, they "made a ton of money," said one steel expert who insisted on anonymity.
Last year Bethlehem closed a blast furnace in Bethlehem, Pa., and shipped steel to its structural mills from a more efficient arc furnace in Johnstown, Pa. It also closed the mill that made very big steel beams and confined itself to smaller products.
"They were jerry-rigging this to try to make it profitable," Mr. Aldrich said.
Curtis H. Barnette, Bethlehem's chairman, concedes the point. "We thought revised business plans and modernization efforts would help, but these businesses do not meet our expectations," he said during a conference call with reporters.
Now Bethlehem is selling what is left of the structural steel business. Also on the block are three businesses that together lost $7 million in the quarter: Beth Forge, which makes forged steel products; Centec Roll, which makes centrifugally cast steel; and Beth Ship, a ship repair yard in Sparrows Point, Md.
The four businesses employ 2,235 people, about 90 percent of whom are eligible for pension benefits. Mr. Barnette said pension liabilities would increase by $100 million.
He said he had hired Salomon Brothers and Chase Bank to seek buyers, and that some potential buyers had already expressed interest. Mr. Barnette said he would evaluate any offers early next year.
Even quick sales at high prices would not be a full solution for Bethlehem. A threatened strike against General Motors by the United Automobile Workers union would hurt Bethlehem, a major G.M. supplier. Moreover, flat roll capacity is about to rocket, as the Nucor Corporation, the LTV Corporation and a joint venture between Australia's Broken Hill Proprietary Company and Norstar Steel expect to have new minimills producing within the next year.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Bethlehem Steel Corp. (BS,N)"

Qtr. to Sept 30	1996	1995	%Ch	Sales	1,174,600,000	1,224,700,000	-4.1	Net inc.	b11,000,000	34,400,000	-66.9	Sh. earn	-	.22		Sh. out.	111,500,000	110,500,000	 	
 
b-Included a restructuring charge of $15 million related to the sale and lease of certain assets of Bethlehem's Eagle Nest coal mine. If the charge were excluded, net income would have been $23 million, or 12 cents a share.
The share earnings are after preferred dividends of $10.5 million for the latest quarter and $10.6 million for the year-ago period.
Sales are net sales.
Results are for the third quarter.
 
Yesterday's closing price: $8
Unchanged 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (93%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; STEEL AND IRON IRON & STEEL MILLS (93%); STRUCTURAL METAL PRODUCTS MFG (91%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); CASH FLOW (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); TOXIC ASSETS (75%); BUSINESS PLANS (73%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H CURTIS H BARNETTE (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



713 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Job Shifting Is Big Issue In G.M. Talks

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: JANESVILLE, Wis., Oct. 30

 BODY:
The showdown between the United Automobile Workers union and the General Motors Corporation this autumn is often described as a struggle over corporate downsizing and job security, but as striking workers here are quick to volunteer, the dispute is also about whether corporations owe easier jobs to older workers.
Previous labor agreements already make it very expensive for Detroit's auto makers to lay off workers, so that most workers are effectively guaranteed jobs until retirement. In place of layoffs, G.M. has not been hiring replacements for the many retirees among its 215,000 U.A.W. workers, instead asking more overtime of the remaining workers and hiring outside contractors to do less-skilled jobs. 
 But many of the less-skilled jobs are considered more pleasant than assembly work, and are sought-after positions for U.A.W. workers. The U.A.W. is now trying to brake the use of overtime and outside contractors by forcing the company to hire more workers under a new three-year labor contract being negotiated in Detroit.
To put more pressure on G.M., the U.A.W. had workers walk out here and at an important truck parts factory in Indianapolis on Tuesday evening.
Claude Lewis, a 51-year-old picketer in Janesville who has worked for G.M. since 1968, described how he still spends 50 hours a week lifting 30-pound suspension parts into truck frames. He is angry that there are no longer many easy jobs cleaning the floors even for workers like him with considerable seniority, and even angrier that G.M. now wants to bring in an outside janitorial service instead.
"When I started here, I figured after 25 years I'd get a sweeper's job," Mr. Lewis said between puffs on a Marlboro cigarette, his black parka zippered up against the freezing prairie wind. "But now, with the outsourcing, I'll finish out my years on the line."
Yet to analysts, the continued presence of even a few U.A.W. workers earning $17 an hour to clean factories is precisely what is still wrong with G.M. "It's not a U.A.W. kind of job," because little skill is needed, Ronald A. Glantz, an analyst with Dean Witter, said.
G.M. officials declined to comment.
About 4,800 workers at the assembly plant here and 2,750 workers at a metal-stamping plant in Indianapolis walked out on Tuesday evening. The strikes are the latest gambit by the U.A.W. to force G.M. to guarantee that its employment of U.A.W. workers will stay at 95 percent or more of current levels for the next three years.
While the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Corporation have already accepted this provision, G.M. is resisting. The company uses more labor to produce each car or truck than any other auto maker in North America, partly because G.M. makes a higher proportion of its parts in-house.
But as Mr. Lewis indicated, the dispute over the 95 percent guarantee is only partly about job security. G.M. offered in September to guarantee that none of its current workers will lose their jobs, an offer that the U.A.W. declined. With roughly 5 percent of G.M.'s aging workers already retiring each year, such a provision would allow the company to reduce the staffing of its factories sharply over three years.
Tom Long, a 50-year-old picketer, said that when General Motors began building its mammoth Chevrolet and GMC Suburbans here in 1990, they moved down the assembly line at the rate of 44 an hour. Now the rate is 62 an hour, and there are fewer workers doing more tasks, he said.
"Our big concern here is getting some more people," he said, while echoing Mr. Lewis's worry about the janitorial work.
Mr. Lewis said that the company had installed a mechanical hoist to help him move the heavy suspension parts but that he could not use it quickly enough to keep pace with the medium-duty truck assembly line where he works.
"I couldn't keep up so I don't use the hoist, I use my hands," he said, his shoulders hunched against the wind and a baseball cap pulled down over his forehead.
The factory here, two hours' drive northwest of Chicago, covers many city blocks with a sprawling hodgepodge of old brick buildings and new steel warehouses, all topped with a forest of chimneys. The factory stands near the edge of this small town, just a mile from cornfields now browned by autumn.
Talks in Detroit to settle the strikes and produce a new national labor contract for G.M. made little progress today. Some U.A.W. leaders spent much of the day instead at a quarterly meeting of the union's board, people close to the union said. The long-planned board meeting was scheduled to last through Friday, and the union's local officials at G.M. factories were scheduled to hold a conference on Saturday in Detroit.
G.M.'s profits run as high as $12,000 apiece on the Suburbans, and $6,000 each on the Tahoe and Yukon sport utility vehicles also assembled here, Mr. Glantz of Dean Witter said. He estimated that each day that the factory is closed will reduce G.M.'s after-tax profits by about $7 million.
The total cost of the latest strikes could soar to as much as $50 million a day, Mr. Glantz added, if the strike in Indianapolis lasts long enough to force G.M. to close seven other assembly plants that make sport utility vehicles or pickup trucks and that rely on the Indianapolis factory for truck doors, hoods and roofs.
Thomas Klipstine, a spokesman for G.M., said this evening that one of these factories, a pickup truck assembly plant in Fort Wayne, Ind., that employs 2,250 workers, would close for lack of parts later tonight.
Stephen Girsky, an analyst with Morgan Stanley, said that the next fight between G.M. and the U.A.W. would likely be over whether laid-off workers at the seven other assembly plants are eligible for state unemployment benefits, which would tend to drive up G.M. unemployment insurance costs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; OVERTIME; STRIKES; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; WAGES AND SALARIES LAYOFFS (90%); OVERTIME (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); STRIKES (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (88%); MOTOR VEHICLE METAL STAMPING (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (74%); BUILDING & FACILITIES SERVICES (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); METAL STAMPING (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH CLAUDE LEWIS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



714 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-13
 
CHINA SENTENCES STUDENT LEADER
China sentenced a former student leader, Wang Dan, to 11 years in prison, possibly silencing the last of its prominent domestic critics. A1
 
MIXED RESPONSE FROM CLINTON
The Clinton Administration condemned China's harsh sentence, but said Secretary of State Warren Christopher would go ahead with a visit to China in November. A12
 
ZAIRE EDGES TOWARD WAR
Zaire and Rwanda exchanged artillery fire across their border for a second day, in the latest sign that they were moving toward an open war that could leave thousands of refugees caught in the middle. A1
 
SAUDI ARABIA'S DISCONTENTED
A crackdown in Saudi Arabia following a car-bomb attack that killed 19 American airmen has led to the arrest of scores from a little-known Shiite Muslim group calling itself the Saudi Hezbollah. A3
 
PAPAL POLITICS AND CUBA
With the announcement in Havana on Tuesday that a visit by Pope John Paul II to Cuba is now in the works, the Pope has proved once again that papal trips can make powerful politics. A5
 
SPY CHARGE IN FRANCE
France's Defense Minister in the early 1980's was later reported by Eastern European intelligence services to have worked for them as a paid political informer, a French official said. A7
 
YELTSIN REWARDS A BACKER
In a move that bewildered even some close allies, a big financial backer of President Boris N. Yeltsin's re-election campaign has been appointed deputy chief of the National Security Council. A9
 
APARTHEID ASSASSIN SENTENCED
Saying many of the defendant's actions had been cruel and calculated, a South African judge sentenced the former head of a notorious police assassination squad to more than 200 years in jail. A11
 
Caracas Journal: What becomes of a gas-guzzler. A4
 
National A14-26, B12-15
 
ECONOMIC GROWTH IS SLOWING
A Government report showed a sharp slowdown in economic growth, to an annual rate of 2.2 percent in the third quarter. Economists had expected a slowdown but differed on whether it was the start of a longer downturn or a brief slowing of an expansion. A1
 
DOLE SAYS RECESSION IS NEAR
Seizing on news of sluggish economic growth, Bob Dole warned that a recession would arrive after Election Day and that President Clinton would be to blame. A1
 
FUND-RAISER AND THE WHITE HOUSE
Government records show that John Huang, a finance official for the Democratic Party who has been suspended for questionable fund-raising, visited the White House 65 times from January to September, but they do not show whom he met with or why. A1
 
DOLE'S HAIL MARY IN CALIFORNIA
Bob Dole's campaign began with plans to win the Presidential election without winning in California, but it then began an all-out effort there, in what campaign aides said was a last-ditch effort to generate national momentum. B12
 
CLINTON PLANS 15-STATE SPRINT
President Clinton began a 15-state, 20-stop trip that will continue until he arrives in Little Rock, Ark., at dawn of Election Day. B13
 
CHURCH-STATE CASE FOR COURT
The Clinton Administration supported New York City in asking the Supreme Court to overturn a ruling that barred public school teachers from going to parochial schools to offer remedial classes. A1
 
NEW HOMES FOR YOUNG MOTHERS
Katie Cameron has a son and a high school diploma that she obtained after the child was born with the help of a new home for young mothers in Massachusetts that is a model for adult-supervised homes the new Federal welfare law asks states to establish. A1
 
TALK SHOW HOST TO TESTIFY
A Michigan judge ordered Jenny Jones to testify in a murder trial of a former guest on her show who is accused of killing another guest who told of having a homosexual attraction to him. A14
 
F.B.I. OFFICIAL PLEADS GUILTY
A senior executive with the F.B.I. admitted to obstruction of justice for destroying a memorandum about an internal review of a standoff with a white separatist at his Idaho cabin in 1992. A19
 
Metro Report B1-11
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-22
 
Art stolen from Jews is auctioned in Vienna. C15
 
Christopher Reeve, actor, as a director. C15
 
Dance: Twyla Tharp. C15
 
Books: "Why Michael Couldn't Hit." C19
 
Sports B17-25
 
Hockey: Rangers beat the Devils. B17
 
Column: Anderson on a silver anniversary. B17
 
The Home Section C1-13
 
Lorenzo de Versace C1
 
At home with Dr. Helen Caldicott: A whole planet for a patient C1
 
New museum with quirks C1
 
Obituaries D21
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A28-29
 
Editorials
 
California pandering.
 
China's politics of punishment.
 
For Congress from New Jersey.
 
Letters
 
William Safire: If the vote splits.
 
Maureen Dowd: Bal Harbour dreamin'.
 
Susan Cheever: Who was that masked woman?
 
John M. Barry: This new house.
 
Chronicle B30
 
Bridge C19
 
Crossword C20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); FRANCE (92%); RWANDA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CUBA (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HEZBOLLAH (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); FRANCE (92%); RWANDA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CUBA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SENTENCING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRISONS (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); RECESSION (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (85%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); TERRORISM (74%); ARRESTS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); JUDGES (73%); ASSASSINATION (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); REFUGEES (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); HEZBOLLAH (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



715 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Patients in H.M.O.'s Win a Case

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 30

 BODY:
In a major victory for consumers, a Federal judge has expanded the rights of Medicare patients in health maintenance organizations, saying they are entitled to immediate hearings whenever they are denied medical services.
The judge, Alfredo C. Marquez of the Federal District Court in Tucson, Ariz., rejected the Government's argument that it was not legally responsible for the actions of H.M.O.'s that have Federal contracts to care for Medicare patients. 
 Four million of the 38 million Mediare beneficiaries are in H.M.O.'s, and the number is rapidly growing. Republicans and Democrats alike look to such health plans as a way to control Medicare costs. The decision may contribute to this trend, assuring elderly people that they can join H.M.O.'s without losing the rights available to patients in the traditional Medicare program.
Judge Marquez said that when H.M.O.'s denied services to Medicare patients, they were acting for the Government, so their decisions amounted to Government action, and beneficiaries were entitled to "due process of law," including full notice of adverse decisions and a meaningful opportunity to challenge the denial of care.
The Clinton Administration and the H.M.O. industry had argued that H.M.O.'s serving Medicare patients were private entities and that the Federal Government should not be held responsible for their decisions.
"The decisions of the H.M.O.'s are not Government action," the Secretary of Health and Human Services, Donna E. Shalala, asserted in court papers. "Such medical decisions are not made by Government officials, and the Government has neither a role nor an interest in the decisions made by any H.M.O."
The Justice Department said Medicare patients in H.M.O.'s already had far more rights and protections than non-Medicare patients in the same H.M.O.'s. In addition, it said, no court has the power to second-guess the Secretary's decisions about whether to take enforcement action against an H.M.O.
Darrel J. Grinstead, chief counsel of the Federal Health Care Financing Administration, which runs Medicare, declined to comment on today's decision. Other Federal officials refused to say whether the Government would appeal.
Judge Marquez ruled that "H.M.O. denials of Medicare services are state action" because "the Government pays for covered services" and regulates the activities of H.M.O.'s serving Medicare patients. So, he said, beneficiaries are entitled to due process of law.
Medicaid officials in New York and many other states are prodding low-income people to join H.M.O.'s. While Medicaid was not mentioned by Judge Marquez, his analysis will be useful to Medicaid recipients challenging denial of services by H.M.O.'s. Several such challenges have been filed by Medicaid patients in Tennessee and other states.
Karen M. Ignagni, president of the American Association of Health Plans, which represents H.M.O.'s, offered today to work with the Government to help Medicare patients exercise their rights to file appeals and grievances.
In his ruling, Judge Marquez declared: "Existing procedures followed by H.M.O.'s fail to secure minimum due process for Medicare beneficiaries. Notice and informal hearing requirements set forth by statute and regulations are all but ignored."
The lawsuit, a nationwide class action, was filed in 1993 by Medicare beneficiaries who said they had been denied medically necessary services like emergency care, home health care, skilled nursing care and physical therapy. In many cases, the services had been recommended by doctors, but denied by H.M.O.'s.
Patients in the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program can also challenge decisions denying coverage for particular services. But they usually receive care before filing claims, whereas H.M.O. patients may be denied care if the H.M.O. decides that a particular service is not covered. Economists say that H.M.O.'s often have a financial incentive to limit the amount of care, whereas doctors paid through the standard Medicare program have incentive to provide extra services.
Judge Marquez reviewed many cases in which H.M.O.'s had been asked to reconsider decisions denying care. "H.M.O. reconsideration approximates a 'rubber stamp' of the initial denial," he said. "This has grave consequences because an H.M.O. denial may mean the enrollee will go without medically necessary service."
While campaigning for re-election in Florida last month, President Clinton expressed concern about changes in the health care industry that threaten the quality of care, and he said he would appoint a commission to recommend ways of protecting consumers.
Sally Hart Wilson, a lawyer at the Center for Medicare Advocacy who represented patients in the class-action lawsuit, said, "The position taken by the Government in its legal briefs in this case seems to be at odds with the Administration's recent statements about how it wants to protect the quality of care for people in H.M.O.'s around the country."
In papers filed with Judge Marquez in March, the Administration said the Federal Medicare law "does not require an impartial review procedure for Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in H.M.O.'s before a termination or denial of their H.M.O. services."
Judge Marquez found defects in many of the notices sent to Medicare patients by H.M.O.'s. "Not one notice provided the specific basis for coverage denial," he said.
In many cases, he added, the H.M.O. "hides the ball" and fails to inform Medicare patients that they have "a right to present additional evidence to the H.M.O. for reconsideration." This omission violates Federal regulations, he said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (95%); MEDICARE (95%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); DUE PROCESS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); POOR POPULATION (74%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); MEDICAID (58%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; MARQUEZ, ALFREDO C (JUDGE) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



716 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC GROWTH RETREATS TO 2.2%

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 30

 BODY:
In one of the last major indicators of the country's economic performance before the Presidential election, the Commerce Department today reported a sharp slowdown in economic growth in the third quarter of the year, but no sign of a revival of even modest inflation.
Today's news, that the growth rate fell to 2.2 percent in the third quarter, from 4.7 percent in the second, did not come as a surprise. Most economists had expected that the economy would cool off considerably. But they differ on whether this is the beginning of a longer downturn or a brief slowing of an expansion that can be sustained well into next year. 
 Both sides in that debate could pick out evidence from numbers reported today to support their arguments: Growth in personal spending by consumers slowed to a near standstill, but companies continued to buy equipment at a remarkable pace, a sign that they expect continued good times.
There was little question, however, that the combination of slower growth and continued low inflation wiped out the fears prevalent three months ago that the Federal Reserve would be forced to raise short-term interest rates.
And the figures put the economy on a path to grow 2.8 percent for the year, by most estimates -- well ahead of what both Democrats and Republicans expected early in the year.
Not surprisingly, both campaigns seized on today's numbers to bolster their sharply conflicting assessments of the nation's economic health. Commerce Secretary Mickey Kantor, carefully plucking out figures on the growth of the private economy, which exclude government spending, argued that the economy was growing faster than "in the so-called go-go 80's."
"We're in the midst of a balanced, sustained economic expansion that is delivering the goods for the American people," he said.
But Bob Dole, campaigning in Tennessee, referred to an economy that "is barely afloat," and said, "If this is a recovery, I can hardly wait for the recession." His staff compared today's numbers with those of the first quarter of 1993 -- when Mr. Clinton was inaugurated and when the economy was climbing out of recession with growth at a rate of more than 4 percent -- to support its argument that Mr. Clinton had been a lucky bystander to good times rather than a contributor to the economy's success.
Despite the evidence of slowdown, there was good news for wage earners. The Federal Reserve, in a separate report, said that it was finally seeing "some proliferation" of wage increases around the country -- something that has been oddly absent throughout the last few years -- in a variety of jobs.
Still, that news followed a report on Tuesday by the Labor Department that growth in wages and benefits had slowed in the third quarter. The Employment Cost Index, the broadest and probably most accurate compensation gauge, climbed just six-tenths of 1 percent in the quarter, the lowest reading in a year.
In any case, the Fed said in its report today -- the beige book that looks at regional economic conditions -- that few of the increases it found were being translated into higher prices for goods, and that inflation remained well under control.
"All the news today was very good from the point of view of the central bank," Allen Sinai, the Lehman Brothers economist, said today, referring to the indications that the Federal Reserve had stepped around a potential landmine this fall by deciding not to raise interest rates.
The biggest surprise in the figures was the paltry growth in consumer spending: a mere four-tenths of a percent at an annual rate. In the first half of the year the rate was closer to 3.5 percent. Mr. Kantor and the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Joseph E. Stiglitz, portrayed that as an odd blip, and said they expected a sharp recovery of spending in the fourth quarter. Many economists agree, but there is hardly unanimity on the issue.
Inventories also increased sharply in the third quarter, suggesting that some of the G.D.P. gains were attributable to goods that were being produced but not yet consumed.
Buying habits historically wax and wane, so it is difficult to determine how much the spending slowdown really means. But the caution of consumers was in sharp contrast to the continued enthusiasm of American businesses, which spent 19 percent more than a year ago on equipment, largely computers, and built factories at a pace suggestive of a far more healthy expansion.
"This is one of the signs that the underlying fundamentals are very good," Mr. Sinai said. "When you talk to company executives, they seem confident. And they are acting that way."
One area that saw a significant downturn was exports, which until now have spurred the economy. Exports were up only six-tenths of a percent. Some of that slowdown is understandable: the United States economy has grown far faster than Europe's or Japan's, meaning that the country is in a position to take in more goods while demand for American exports lags. But it is an inconvenient turn of events for the the Clinton Administration, which has made the export boom a centerpiece of its economic message.
While the gross domestic product is the most widely used measure of the economy's health, its political utility -- for either side -- is probably minimal this late in a campaign. Moreover, ordinary workers rarely directly feel the ups and downs of the growth rate, while unemployment numbers, which come out later this week, strike far closer to home. Inflation rates are also quick to make an impact across the country, and an inflation gauge in the report on growth showed inflation of only 1.9 percent at an annual rate.
Data included in the gross domestic product for the third quarter of 1996 follow, with all dollar amounts in billions at seasonally adjusted annual rates. Percentage changes are from the previous quarter at seasonally adjusted annual rates.

 	 	 	Gross Domestic Product	$7,616.0	+3.8	 Consumption	5,164.1	+1.9	 Business investment	801.6	+15.2	 Inventory change	42.4	N.A.	 Housing	311.7	-3.1	 Net exports	-115.7	N.A.	 Government	1,412.0	+0.9	Memo: Final sales*	7,573.7	+2.0	 	 	 	Chained 1992 Dollars	 	 	Gross Domestic Product	$6,929.7	+2.2	 Consumption	4,692.8	+0.4	 Business investment	776.6	+14.7	 Inventory Change	39.6	N.A.	 Housing	277.4	-5.8	 Net exports	-132.2	N.A.	 Government	1,273.7	-1.4	Memo: Final sales*	6,889.6	+0.3	G.D.P. price deflator		+1.6	G.D.P. chain-weighted price index		+1.9	
 
*G.D.P. less inventory change.
N.A. Data Not applicable.
Source: Commerce Department

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Moderate Growth Amid Wage Increases"
 A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to the quarterly beige book report issued yesterday by the Fed.
 
Minneapolis -- Construction was strong, with highway work leading the way. Scarcity of skilled workers pushed wages up.
 
Chicago -- Retail sales improved in September, but results were mixed in October. Demand for skilled workers remained strong.
 
Cleveland -- Employment agencies reported strong demand for temporary workers, but that skilled workers were hard to find. Retailers reported mediocre sales.
 
Boston -- Retailers and manufacturers reported solid growth. Some manufacturers raised prices, though overall materials prices changed little.
 
New York -- Sales at large retailers slowed in September, but quickened in October. Banks' willingness to lend to consumers increased.
 
Philadelphia -- Manufacturing gains slowed since the summer. Employers had trouble finding qualified workers.
 
Richmond -- Retailers reported higher sales. Durable goods and textiles manufacturing slowed last month.
 
Atlanta -- Retailers said sales were rising with inventories on target. Builders said construction fell below last year's level.
 
St. Louis -- Companies said inventories were at or below desired levels. Some companies reported higher costs for raw materials.
 
Kansas City -- Retailers reported slightly higher sales. Housing starts showed a bit and labor markets were still light.
 
Dallas -- Slower home-building activity led to some layoffs and slumping demand for raw materials. Retail and auto sales wer sluggish.
 
San Francisco -- Manufacturing picked up in recent weeks, led by aircraft production and demand for electronic parts. Banks reported increased delinquencies but strong loan demand.
 
(Source: Bloomberg Business News) (pg. D4)
 
Graphs: "Real Economic Growth" tracks annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on seasonally and inflation-adjusted figures for each quarter, since the second quarter of 1992; "New-Home Sales" tracks new private homes sold during month, at seasonally adjusted annual rate, from April 1995 through September 1996; "Prices of New Homes" tracks median price for new homes, from April 1995 through September 1996. (Source: The Commerce Department) (pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (65%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; FORECASTS ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); RECESSION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (85%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB; KANTOR, MICKEY (SEC) BILL CLINTON (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



717 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Stock Market Has a 'Treading Water Day'

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Technology shares regained some ground, but most stocks edged lower yesterday as mixed economic data heightened anxiety before tomorrow's important monthly employment report.
The Dow Jones industrial average meandered through the day, falling 13.79 points, to 5,993.23, after surrendering an early 21-point gain. 
 Broader measures also retreated after bonds gave back an opening advance that briefly brought long-term interest rates toward their lowest levels in nearly seven months.
But the technology-laden Nasdaq market posted modest gains as investors looked for bargains after several days of profit taking in leading computer-related shares.
Stocks started the session higher, tracking the bond market, which extended Tuesday's rally after the Commerce Department reported that economic growth slowed sharply in the third quarter as consumer spending fell to its weakest pace in five years.
But bonds slipped back near opening levels, pulling stocks lower, after a subsequent report showed stronger-than-expected activity in home sales toward the end of the third quarter.
Later in the day, the Federal Reserve released a report on a periodic survey of regional business conditions, known as the beige book. The survey found few indications of price increases, but it showed upward pressure on wages because of tight labor markets in some occupations.
The day's conflicting signals on the economy left many investors wondering what tomorrow's reading on October payroll and wage levels will reveal. "This was just a treading water day," said Ned Riley, the chief investment officer for the Bank of Boston, calling the week's remaining data "critical to the direction of the markets."
Higher inflation or interest rates would make the set payments on existing bonds less attractive, forcing down prices to improve the yield. As bond prices rose yesterday morning, the yield on the 30-year Treasury fell from Tuesday's 6.68 percent to 6.64 percent. But by late yesterday afternoon, the yield rose to 6.70 percent.
Advancing issues barely outpaced decliners on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume was 438.71 million shares, down from 443.9 million shares on Tuesday.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.60 point, to 700.90, and the New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 0.41 point, to 372.72.
But the Nasdaq composite index rose 3.18 points, to 1,206.23, as several technology bellwethers rebounded. Intel rose 2 3/8, to 106 3/4, and Dell Computer rose 2 13/16, to 78 15/16.
The session's best performers were banks and other financial services stocks, which enjoy a bigger profit margin on the money they lend when interest rates are lower.
In New York Stock Exchange trading, Nationsbank rose 1 5/8, to 94 1/8; Chase Manhattan rose 7/8, to 85 3/8, and Citicorp rose 7/8, to 98. Among the Dow industrials, American Express rose 1/2, to 46 1/4.
Retail companies were weaker. Wal-Mart Stores fell 1 1/8, to 26 1/4; Sears, Roebuck dropped 1, to 47 1/2, and Woolworth dropped 1/2, to 21.
 Imation climbed 4 7/8, to 27 5/8, after the company posted its first profit since being spun off in July from Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing.
 CompUSA tumbled for a second day, falling 6, to 45 5/8. The computer retailer doubled its profits for its first quarter, which ended Sept. 28, beating forecasts, but investors continued to worry about sluggish computer sales in this quarter. Comp-USA said the retail side of its business was somewhat weak, confirming recent market sentiment, the Dow Jones News Service reported.
Michaels Stores fell 1 29/32, to 10, after the company said it would report a wider-than-expected loss for its third quarter.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (68%); BAC (LSE) (68%); 8648 (TSE) (68%); INTC (NASDAQ) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (59%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (68%); INTEL CORP (59%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); PRICE CHANGES (87%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); INFLATION (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



718 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: POLITICAL MEMO;
Behind Dole's California Strategy: A Bid to Save His Campaign

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 30

 BODY:
Until a month ago, the conventional political wisdom among Republican leaders was that Bob Dole could win the Presidency on Nov. 5 without carrying California and its biggest-in-the-nation haul of 54 Electoral College votes. All he had to do, the reasoning went, was run well elsewhere, particularly in Republican strongholds in the South and the Midwest.
Then, suddenly, Mr. Dole diverted major campaign resources from the South and the Midwest and made an all-out effort for California, a state where President Clinton has held one of his biggest two-digit leads for months and, to boot, is a sometimes loopy place that seems a bad political fit for a straitlaced Republican septuagenarian. 
 So why the puzzling shift?
Theories abound -- that Mr. Dole made a bad political judgment of historic proportion, that he needs California's big money to keep financially afloat until Election Day, that he has secretly given up on winning the Presidency and will instead go down fighting to re-elect Republicans to Congress, especially California's crucial 26-member Republican contingent in the House.
But the true explanation, Dole campaign officials say, is much more straightforward and practical.
As they tell it, the Dole shift to California is a last-ditch "Hail Mary" effort to get some momentum going in a place so politically important that the rest of the country will be forced to take note and, it is hoped, give Mr. Dole a second look.
If the big California money flows in because of that effort and if California's House Republicans get a lift, as well as local and state Republican candidates, so much the better, the officials say. But the main goal of the strategy, they insist, is to salvage the Dole campaign nationally.
"You do what you have to do," said Ken Khachigian, the coordinator of the Dole effort in California and the main architect of the new strategy.
Before the shift, Mr. Khachigian noted, nothing was happening in the Midwest or South to convince voters that the former Senator from Kansas was on a victory roll. Rather, he recalled, Mr. Dole was trailing by double digits in many states in those regions, and officials in the Dole camp were debating whether to abandon California entirely.
"We had to do something dramatic," Mr. Khachigian said. "It's admittedly a long, unusual shot. But if we can do it in California, we can do it anywhere, and people will see that. And if all this seems too big a stretch, keep in mind that California is a state with a history of come-from-behind campaigns, most notably Pete Wilson getting re-elected Governor two years ago by better than 10 points after being more than 20 points back."
In fact, two of Mr. Wilson's favorite campaign issues -- illegal immigration and affirmative action -- are being heavily employed by Mr. Dole as he campaigns the length of California. Given the race, sex and economic factors involved in those issues, they are as controversial now as they were when Mr. Wilson used them. Some of the controversy is within the Dole camp itself.
The Dole strategy has caught the nation's attention, to be sure. But thus far polls indicate that Mr. Dole has made little progress in catching up with Mr. Clinton in California, certainly not the kind of progress that Mr. Khachigian said would cause voters elsewhere to conclude that Mr. Dole deserves a new look.
Most voter surveys here still show the President in the lead by 15 percentage points or more, with Mr. Dole barely holding his own in some historically Republican strongholds like Orange County, south of Los Angeles, where he must win big to offset heavy Democratic majorities in Los Angeles. While voters tell pollsters that they are deeply concerned about illegal immigration and affirmative action programs, these issues do not seem to be helping Mr. Dole very much, and may be costing him the support of some women and Hispanic voters who might otherwise have been part of his base.
"There's really not much movement showing for Dole despite his big effort and his hot issues," said Mark Di Camillo, a director of the Field Poll, a nonpartisan California survey organization. "Californians as a whole don't seem to be buying it."
Mr. Clinton's California strategist, Bill Carrick, calls the new Dole strategy "the last refuge of a losing candidate, a strategy straight from the 'Failed Campaign Playbook.' "
"I've been in this business long enough to see variations on this theme before, including losing efforts out here by Democratic candidates like Walter Mondale and Michael Dukakis," Mr. Carrick added. "You end up not only dropping California, but also losing other places that you might have won had you stayed put or shifted resources to those places. Pour it on, Bob."
The new strategy was formulated in early October after Dole campaign officials, notably Mr. Khachigian, took a look at polls from various states around the country and concluded that, among major states, California offered as much chance for improvement as any. Not only was it the biggest prize, but there were also the hot immigration and affirmative action issues to exploit and a long history in the state of using hot issues to turn elections around at the last minute.
Mr. Khachigian drew up a plan that called for a massive special infusion of $8 million or so in campaign money, most of it for a television advertising blitz. He also called on Mr. Dole, his wife, Elizabeth, and his running mate, Jack Kemp, to commit to 20 or so campaign visits to California by Nov. 5, either together or individually.
In the days leading up to the second Dole-Clinton debate, in San Diego on Oct. 16, Mr. Khachigian held a series of meetings in Southern California with Mr. Dole and other top Republican officials, and persuaded them to adopt the new plan.
There was some debate about how much emphasis to put on affirmative action and immigration, said several people familiar with what happened at the meetings, and Mr. Dole and Mr. Kemp themselves have chosen to emphasize those issues differently. But Mr. Khachigian said the differences were never so great as to threaten adoption of the plan.
Since the new plan went into effect, Mr. Dole has hammered long and hard on the immigration issue, but he has only begun to hit on affirmative action. He is not particularly comfortable with the latter issue, some campaign aides say, viewing it as a two-edge political sword.
Mr. Kemp has touched only lightly on both issues in most of his stops, raising the ire of a number of Dole partisans.
The Republican leader who is perhaps happiest with the new Dole strategy is Governor Wilson, never particularly close to the former Senator. Well before last summer's convention in San Diego, Mr. Wilson began urging Mr. Dole to concentrate on California and the immigration and affirmative action issues, arguing that he had personal experience with the results that surely would follow.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



719 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS;
In His Own Words

 BODY:

BILL CLINTON
 
Speaking yesterday at Eastern Michigan University in Ypsilanti:
"In every community, in every state, the face of our businesses are changing. Every day it looks more and more like the people in this room: men and women, people of color. Increasingly, Americans with disabilities are becoming business owners. More and more people are finding ways to make the free enterprise system work for them. That supports stronger families, more stable communities, and a much, much stronger America with a brighter future. 
 "Today we received some more good news: our economy is continuing to grow steady and strong, with an annual growth rate of nearly 3 percent. Real incomes for American workers, after being stagnant for virtually 20 years, are rising at nearly 5 percent, with no inflation . . . In the past three months alone, business investment has risen at 18.9 percent, and the rate of investment now is the strongest since President Kennedy was in office over 30 years ago.
"There is an extreme increase in the expectation that we can keep our free enterprise system growing, flourishing and growing stronger, with rising incomes, more businesses and more jobs. And we cannot turn back on that."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EASTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY (84%); EASTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EASTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY (84%); EASTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



720 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Economic Growth Slowed To 2.2% in Third Quarter
In one of the last major economic indicators before the Presidential election, the Government reported a slowdown in the growth rate in the third quarter, to 2.2 percent from 4.7 percent in the second quarter. Economists -- and, not surprisingly, the opposing camps in the campaign -- differ on whether this is the beginning of a longer downturn or a brief slowing of an expansion that can be sustained well into 1997. [Page A1.]
 
Treasury bond prices rose initially on the news of weakening growth, but fell back after a report of stronger-than-expected housing sales. The 30-year bond's yield edged up to 6.70 percent from 6.68 percent on Tuesday. [D17.]
 
Technology shares regained some ground, sending the Nasdaq up 3.18 points, to 1,206.23. But most stocks slipped, with the Dow Jones industrial average falling 13.79, to 5,993.23, as the mixed economic data heightened anxiety before tomorrow's employment report. [D10.]
 
Bay Networks Appoints New Chief
Bay Networks landed a new chief executive, naming a longtime Intel executive who was instrumental in persuading I.B.M. to adopt Intel's microprocessor for its PC's. [D7.]
 
An Offer for Carter-Wallace
Marvin Davis, the billionaire investor, announced an $835 million bid for Carter-Wallace, the maker of Trojan condoms and Arrid deodorant. [D2.]
 
Bethlehem Quitting Structural Steel
Bethlehem Steel, the last major steel producer to battle the minimills for the structural steel market, conceded defeat. It said that it would sell four unprofitable units, including its structural steel mill, and that it would close the operations if no buyer was found. [D2.]
 
Fed Lowers Banking Barriers
The Fed voted to knock down some of the walls that separate banks from securities affiliates, allowing companies like J. P. Morgan and Bankers Trust greater freedom to market and develop investment products. [D2.]
 
Medicare Patients Win in Court
A Federal judge in Tucson, Ariz., expanded the rights of Medicare patients in H.M.O.'s, saying they are entitled to immediate hearings when they are denied medical services. [B15.]

A Well-Promoted Public Offering
The difference between a small company selling for pennies a share and one selling for $9 a share seems to be promotion -- at least in the case of a hot initial public offering for Chem International, a small maker of vitamins. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D10.]
 
An Expanding Luxury Empire
In airport duty-free shops and on fancy shopping boulevards, the products of LVMH Moet Hennessy-Louis Vuitton are easy to find. Having acquired many of the most expensive, most luxurious brands of Champagnes, perfume, fashion and luggage, Bernard Arnault, who controls the company, is trying to gain additional outlets with his bid for DFS Group. [D9.]
 
Lotus to Offer Web Software
I.B.M.'s Lotus Development unit said it would strip key technology out of its Notes software and sell it as a separate product called Weblicator to enhance the ability of computer users to organize and exchange data over the Internet. [D7.]


GRAPHIC: Dow Industrials -- 5,993.23, down 13.79
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.70%, up 0.02
The Dollar -- 113.94.yen, down 0.40
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
Personal Income
 September figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.6%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (83%); MC (PAR) (82%); LVMH (BIT) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (82%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (82%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (83%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (82%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BONDS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); STRUCTURAL METAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); MEDICARE (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); JUDGES (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (69%); LUGGAGE MFG (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); MICROPROCESSORS (66%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (66%); MISC RUBBER PRODUCTS MFG (64%); PHARMACEUTICALS & MEDICINES MFG (64%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (61%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (60%); PRICE INCREASES (55%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BERNARD ARNAULT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



721 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE PLAYERS;
For One Dole Aide, Optimism Is Unavoidable

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: DENVER, Oct. 30

 BODY:
Bob Dole trails in the polls; former advisers and fellow Republicans are flinging eggs at the campaign; aides are throwing up their hands while the campaign's messages shift by the day, and its schedule, it seems, by the hour. And Mr. Dole has taken to attacking the press.
These might seem like lonely days for Mr. Dole's press secretary, Nelson (Lens Cap) Warfield, so named by camera crews for his habit of blocking their shots of Mr. Dole when he is asked impertinent questions. 
 But if he is feeling low, Mr. Warfield shows little sign of it. "I just am not down," he said over a vodka and tonic on Sunday night before two days of campaigning from San Diego to Denver. "I mean, I haven't ordered my office furniture yet, but I think we're going to win this thing. You can't be around Bob Dole and not have that sense of optimism."
Mr. Warfield noted that Mr. Dole, having won 27 primaries in a row, is "on a winning streak." Further, he said, gathering speed, "one of the reasons I have confidence we'll win the race is there are still people who haven't tuned in."
Press secretaries are closest to a candidate and the most attuned to his thinking and moods, traveling at his side for months. Yet alone among the campaign staff, press secretaries cannot hide behind closed doors.
Republicans and Democrats who have been press secretaries to candidates behind in the polls say that it can be agony to spin in what reporters treat as the grave.
"It's so painful at the end," said Paul Costello, the press secretary to Kitty Dukakis during Michael S. Dukakis's Democratic campaign in 1988. "Every question, especially for the spouse, is akin to: 'Why are you married to such a loser?' "
Marlin Fitzwater, who worked as Presidential press secretary for Ronald Reagan and George Bush before losing in 1992, said reporters were on the alert for any hint of weakness. "I always had the idea that the White House press corps was willing to read frustration on the faces of baggage handlers if you let them," Mr. Fitzwater said.
At times, as Mr. Warfield labors to construct a favorable image of his candidate from seemingly dismal details, he can seem as resourceful as MacGyver, the television hero forever getting out of scrapes with things like paper clips and chocolate bars for tools.
Preparing to fly here from California on the Dole plane, reporters pressed Mr. Warfield for explanations as to why the campaign was deciding at the last minute where to pop in next. "The kind of corporate mentality that seems to be evident in our opponent's camp is not evident here," he responded, bracing himself against a bulkhead. "We're trying to be a very aggressive, very flexible campaign, and if that means scheduling on a very tight basis, that's what we'll do."
At other times, Mr. Warfield, a baby-faced 36-year-old, seems to be struggling to build a life raft from a Clorox bottle washed up on a beach. On Sunday, for example, a reporter pointed out that The Los Angeles Times had had no front-page article Mr. Dole's California bus trip the previous day.
This, Mr. Warfield rapidly explained, was a good sign. The campaign, he said, had become "so prevalent in California that we're commonplace and don't make the front page of the L.A. Times." But he finally allowed himself a grin. "I don't know what you're laughing about," he said.
Mr. Warfield has ruffled more than a few feathers among the reporters traveling with Mr. Dole. Some accuse him of playing favorites, a charge he denies. Others say he appears rarely and, when he does, vanishes too soon. Several reporters said they were amused at how visible Mr. Warfield became after a reporter turned up this week to profile him.
Many of the reporters on the plane have voiced a familiar complaint on the campaign trail, saying they wish that Mr. Dole were more available to them and that he has not held a full-blown news conference since March.
Indeed, even Mr. Dole's assessment of Mr. Warfield and their relationship had to be relayed through Mr. Warfield. "I trust him," Mr. Warfield said Mr. Dole said. "When he goes to the back of the plane, I don't worry about what he's saying."
For trying to sustain Mr. Dole's optimistic message and for standing by his man, Mr. Warfield wins high marks from Republicans who are now critical of the campaign.
But the feuding among Dole aides is becoming notorious, and at times even Mr. Warfield sounds frustrated with his colleagues. Told by telephone today that John Buckley, the communications director, had praised his work, Mr. Warfield remarked, "What'd he tell you off the record?" He added hastily: "Just trying to keep it light."
Mr. Dole himself, when asked on Sunday by a CNN correspondent, Candy Crowley, whether he was well served by his staff, did not answer yes. "My view is you don't look back and say, 'Well, it is their fault, their fault, their fault,' " he said. "I have been around long enough to know it is going to be the candidate's fault. If I lose, the rest of them are going to be home free."
All year, Mr. Warfield, known for acid asides and pop-culture references, has been waging a battle of witticisms with Joe Lockhart, the Clinton campaign press secretary. Tired of seeing the cigarette-suited Butt Man at Dole rallies, for example, Mr. Warfield threatened to have Joint Man dog Mr. Clinton.
Mr. Warfield has drawn admiring comments from his opponent. When he declared that a recent New York Times poll showing a substantial Clinton lead might have "oversampled Indonesian billionaires," Mr. Lockhart told a reporter, "Tell Nelson that we enjoyed that Indonesia line. It was a very good line."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nelson Warfield, left, Bob Dole's press secretary, says some voters have not yet "tuned in" to the race. He talked to Norman Cohen, a consultant, on the campaign plane. Mr. Warfield's deputy, Jenny Ryder, is at rear. (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (61%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WARFIELD, NELSON RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



722 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE REPUBLICAN;
DOLE ASSERTS DATA ON ECONOMY SHOW RECESSION IS NEAR

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Oct. 30

 BODY:
After a midmorning visit for prayer and reflection at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, Bob Dole headed south today and seized on news of sluggish economic growth to warn that a recession was waiting over the Election Day horizon.
"If this is a recovery, I can hardly wait for the recession -- if this is the recovery," Mr. Dole declared, his voice booming off the hard walls of a stuffy state university gym this afternoon in central Tennessee before he flew on to Louisiana.
Mr. Dole said today's economic figures, which showed that growth of the Gross Domestic Product slowed to 2.2 percent in the third quarter, proved his assertion that President Clinton's claim of an economic recovery was false and that the economy was in fact faltering because of Mr. Clinton's policies, particularly the tax increase of 1993.
"So all this false and empty talk about the so-called Clinton recovery comes to an end," Mr. Dole told his audience of mostly students, who filled about half the gym floor at Austin Peay State University in Clarksville. "It ended today. With today's announcement, take off the mask -- it's not Halloween -- take off the mask! The economy is not good."
Mr. Clinton, for his part, focused on the future today as he began a final, 15-state swing. [Page B13.]
Although Mr. Dole expressed public alarm about the implications of the economic figures -- "The evidence of a weak economy is everywhere. Everywhere," he warned -- it was a comment on the state of the campaign that his political strategists could fairly be described as delighted with the economic news.
Mr. Dole's entire day pivoted on the economic report, which was released at 8:30 A.M. by the Commerce Department. The decision to push ahead with a renewed attack on the economy, an issue Mr. Dole has raised sporadically, was contingent on how bad those numbers were, Mr. Dole's aides said.
The assertions that President Clinton's economic plan was slowing the economy provoked an unusually sharp response from Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the chairwoman of the National Economic Council at the White House.
"It was the Republicans who predicted in 1993 that the President's economic plan would lead to the economy going in the tank, that it would lead to an increase in the unemployment rate, would lead to an increase in the deficit, and some of them said it would lead to a recession," Ms. Tyson said.
"I think the predictive abilities of some of the members of the Republican side of the aisle in the Congress on the economy is questionable."
Mr. Dole's decision to turn to the economy came as he embarked on a two-day trip through the South, a part of the country that a Republican Presidential candidate would normally not need to visit this late in a race. It was another reminder of the difficult position Mr. Dole finds himself in the last week before the election. Tonight, after the stops in Tennessee and Louisiana, he continued on to Florida, a state no Democratic Presidential candidate has carried in 20 years.
On the way from his home to National Airport in Washington this morning, Mr. Dole diverted his motorcade for an unscheduled pilgrimage to the Lincoln Memorial. The visit was evocative of the time that President Richard M. Nixon, who is a seminal figure in Mr. Dole's life, walked up the same marble steps of the memorial during his own difficult passage -- in Mr. Nixon's case, at the height of protests against the Vietnam War in 1970.
Aides to Mr. Dole said he and his wife, Elizabeth, who is now introducing her husband at most of the rallies, stayed for about five minutes, but did not go inside. Mr. Dole, recounting the experience at his Tennessee appearance, said he had turned to his wife in the car to say he wanted to visit the memorial.
"I need a little inspiration," Mr. Dole said, recounting the back-seat conversation. "I need to reflect about America and about the Republican Party and maybe we have a word or two of silent prayers. And so we did."
Mr. Dole's audience listened in silence as he recounted the visit. Then he declared loudly, "We are going to win this election, Mr. Lincoln." His audience rose to its feet, and Mr. Dole was treated to some of the longest applause he has heard in this campaign.
It turned out not to be the only time today that Mr. Dole offered some insights into his emotions. In an interview taped with David Frost this afternoon for broadcast on Friday night on PBS, Mr. Dole responded to the question of what he might do if he failed to defeat Mr. Clinton on Tuesday.
"If it happens -- I'm not suggesting it's going to happen -- but if it should happen, I'll probably find work," Mr. Dole said. "I'll work with those with disabilities, and do other things fulfilling. But I'm not going to stop and go off and say it's all over."
In his speech in Tennessee, Mr. Dole forcefully blamed the media for the fact that his own economic plan, which includes a 15 percent across-the-board tax cut, had not lifted his campaign, at least according to polls. Mr. Dole, who has taken to criticizing newspapers over the past week, widened his net today, and reeled in network newscasters as well.
"How can we expect the people of the United States to understand our plan when anchormen have already made up their -- or anchorwomen -- have already made up their minds?" Mr. Dole said.
"They've already decided it's not a good idea. So they tell you it's not a good idea. I didn't know that was their job. I thought it was to report the plan, report the plan."
Newspapers were not spared. Mr. Dole argued to Mr. Frost that the endorsement of Mr. Clinton by two newspapers in particular -- The New York Times on Sunday and The Washington Post today -- should be taken as a testimonial for him, rather than for the President.
"When you have The New York Times and The Washington Post, in effect, apologizing for endorsing Clinton, I think they have some serious reservations," Mr. Dole said. "They say, 'Well, maybe he'll straighten these things out in his second term.' "
He continued: "But when America's great newspapers have to sort of choke up before they can say something positive, I think that's an indication. They are liberal papers. If they feel that way, once the American people understand it fully, they are going to be outraged."
A former political colleague, former Senator Howard H. Baker Jr. of Tennessee, said he welcomed Mr. Dole's focus on how the news media was covering his campaign.
"It's an extension of the candidate's personality," said Mr. Baker, a Republican. "It fits Dole. He does it well. He makes the point well. The audience responds to it well."
Mr. Dole's audience in Tennessee was enthusiastic as Mr. Dole addressed both the economic figures and ethical problems with Mr. Clinton's Administration. Referring to the White House security officer implicated in the unauthorized inspection of F.B.I. records, Mr. Dole shouted, "Nobody knows who hired Craig Livingstone!"
"Hillary!" came the shout from at least two corners of the crowd.
Mr. Dole considered his response. "I guess you got the word first," he said. "I didn't know."
In New Orleans this evening, Mr. Dole, in attacking Mr. Clinton, drew the most vivid contrasts yet between the current White House and the Watergate scandal of the Nixon years, during which Mr. Dole was the chairman of the Republican National Committee. In recounting the story, Mr. Dole inadvertently inserted Mr. Clinton into the familiar tableau of Mr. Nixon's last day in office.
"As a Republican, I remember Watergate," Mr. Dole said. "I remember what it did to our party. I remember President Clinton leaving on a helicopter. I remember what happens when things get out of hand at the White house."
The dispute between Mr. Dole and Ms. Tyson over the health of the economy comes after a campaign in which Mr. Dole has repeatedly tried to argue that appearances to the contrary, the economy is in bad shape. He said the figures today, along with others he cited -- a decline in consumer confidence, and slow growth in exports -- proved his assertion that the economy was "barely afloat."
"Now this is a real economic slowdown," Mr. Dole said "And I might say it's disastrous news for American workers and businesses and even worse news for low- and moderate-income Americans who have been squeezed and squeezed and squeezed by lower wages and higher taxes in this Administration."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob and Elizabeth Dole beamed at an enthusiastic audience at a rally in Clarksville, Tenn. (pg. B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); AUSTIN PEAY STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); AUSTIN PEAY STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); AUSTIN PEAY STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); AUSTIN PEAY STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; FORECASTS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; TAXATION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (86%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); TRADE REGULATORY ACTIONS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); HALLOWEEN (66%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); TYSON, LAURA D'ANDREA (CHMN); NAGOURNEY, ADAM BILL CLINTON (92%); ELIZABETH DOLE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



723 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: 5 Days to Go: What Do We Want? Or Deserve?;
Hey, Big Spender

 BODY:
To the Editor:
After reading many of your editorials over the last four years criticizing President Clinton's lack of full disclosure on many issues, I was surprised that you fell into the same trap in your endorsement (editorial, Oct. 27). 
 For example, you say that Mr. Clinton "stood up to the spendthrifts in his own party" in driving toward a balanced budget. I don't remember a call for a balanced budget at the start of his term; what I do recall was a move to push through a "stimulus package" to revive the economy because his predecessors, he contended, had neglected to tell him how bad things really were.
A bigger spending package is not a drive toward a balanced budget. You credit him with a victory for free trade, yet you forget to mention that it was Republican support that won the day.
Mr. Clinton failed miserably in winning the support of the Democratic leadership. And had those leaders had their way, there would be no free trade agreements now. You credit Mr. Clinton with heading in the right direction on health care, yet you fail to mention that the American people, though in support of the overall goal to make it a better system, were overwhelming opposed to his methods.
 
GEORGE COSTA
Chicago, Oct. 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ENDORSEMENTS; EDITORIALS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); COSTA, GEORGE BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



724 of 724 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: 5 Days to Go: What Do We Want? Or Deserve?;
Education and Earth

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I commend your well-reasoned editorial (Oct. 27) endorsing President Clinton for a second term. In your reflective attention to such areas as the economy, international trade, foreign policy and health care, you fail to touch on one area that will determine the health and longevity of American society and the human experiment: the education of our children. 
 Our national security depends far more on how our children and grandchildren are learning in school and in the home than on the bloated Pentagon budgets on which both Congress and the President heap further billions in scarce resources.
It is as if we cannot sort out our real national priorities. On the same plane with the education of our children and the support and encouragement of capable, caring teachers and principals, we must put protecting the environment or, as you note, reverence for the earth. That means giving more attention to such interrelated issues as population, consumption, loss of habitat, growing toxification of the planet, alternative energy strategies, farming without pesticides, loss of topsoil, overfishing, and so on.
 
SCOTT MCVAY
Princeton, N.J., Oct. 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; EDITORIALS; ENDORSEMENTS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (67%); PESTICIDES (65%); DEFENSE SPENDING (54%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MCVAY, SCOTT BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996

 
