

401 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 4; Sports of The Times

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Historian Had a Verdict On the Yankees' Deal

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY

 BODY:
LARRY RITTER was dying. He couldn't speak and he couldn't see, but he continued to deliver strong opinions on baseball.
 On Saturday evening, in the final hours of the glory of his times, Larry was being cared for by his registered nurse, Debbie Pianin, who had convinced him that the Yankees were not so terrible.
 ''They extended the baseball season by a month,'' Debbie said, explaining his newfound affinity. 
 Now, as he lay immobile, Larry heard the news that the Yankees were about to acquire Alex Rodriguez.
 ''He looked at me like I was giving him an April's fool,'' Debbie said, ''but then I told him again and he broke into a smile, which he could still do. Then he raised his two thumbs. He couldn't raise his hands, but he did raise his thumbs, with a big smile.''
 Thus, did the grand arbiter pass judgment on these huge doings even though, as a professor of economics, Larry was known to resent the grotesque sums of money being spent on ball players.
 He had written a seminal history of baseball in the early 20th century, ''The Glory of Their Times'' (Macmillan, 1966), then he had scrupulously apportioned all the royalties to the aging players who had cooperated with him. He knew they had not made the money in a year that the A-Rods and the Jeters make in a day.
 Politically, he was a lefty. In baseball economics, he was a righty. But now, in the middle of an unyielding winter, wracked by strokes at age 81, Larry seemed comfortable with the money, and the fireworks and the gossip that are sure to emanate from the Bronx.
 ''Larry loved the controversies, the Rickey Hendersons, the Reggie Jacksons, the Babe Ruths,'' said Evelyn Begley, a baseball fanatic who became a close friend of his.
 Lawrence S. Ritter spent a huge amount of his time among baseball fanatics. Through his death Sunday morning, he has literally become part of what is perhaps a dying breed -- the buffs who care more passionately about the so-called national pastime than about football, basketball or auto racing, those oh-so in-vogue American sports.
 He was a founding father of a monthly luncheon group that meets on the West Side of Manhattan for the sole purpose of talking baseball. They are throwback types, spiritually connected to farmers who sat in front of the general store a century ago and gossiped about Cobb and Matty.
 There are still some of us who think baseball is important, that it cuts deep into the loyalties and rivalries of our American cities.
 At this moment, baseball is once again immense. The acquisition of perhaps the best player by the richest team has touched more nerves than any personnel move ever could in those other sports.
 The Yankees' batting order? What will the news media say the first time Derek Jeter can't make the play in the hole? Will A-Rod's arrival crush the spirit of Red Sox Nation?
 It would be wonderful to have Larry's opinion, but at least we have the report that he seemed to grasp A-Rod's cosmic connection to Babe Ruth's history-changing peregrination to the Yankees.
 ''Larry once said, 'The best part of baseball is the past,' '' said Ray Robinson, author of fine baseball biographies and a member of the luncheon club.
 ''We looked on him as a patriarch,'' said Stan Isaacs, who used to write a sports column in Newsday appropriately titled ''Out of Left Field.''
 ''He was a great listener,'' said Marty Appel, publicist and friend.
 Your correspondent was invited to the baseball luncheon a year ago. There was a big turnout, maybe 12 or 13, and, this being the West Side of Manhattan, a big debate ensued over whether there should be one table or two.
 Larry, in a wheelchair by then, watched his pals bicker for 15 minutes over the placement of chairs. Then he spoke: ''One table.'' And that was that.
 I should add that women fussed over Larry. Margarita Tice, his caretaker, missed one day of work in 16 months. His former wife Elisabeth Foote was with him last week, soothing his forehead.
 Evelyn Begley invited him to lunch years ago, and he refused, politely, saying he was a recluse. She kept after him, and in the final years, she came around once a week to do his laundry and to talk about the Polo Grounds.
 Debbie Pianin helped him adjust after the first stroke and was so charmed, she stayed three years. When she signed on, Larry was a former Giants fan who, for four decades, had consoled himself with the Mets.
 ''But Larry was frustrated with the Mets,'' Debbie said, not needing to add that Larry was not the only one. So she talked up the Yankees -- and in his final hours Larry appreciated the Yankees' audacity. The game goes on, greatly enriched by the fan who loved it so much.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence S. Ritter shared the royalties from his book with the aging players he had interviewed. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times, 2002) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); HISTORY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); BASKETBALL (66%); NURSES & NURSING (57%); AUTO RACING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (93%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



402 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: RECONSTRUCTION

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Envoy Promotes Role of Iraqi Women

BYLINE: By DEXTER FILKINS

DATELINE: KARBALA, Iraq, Feb. 16 

 BODY:
L. Paul Bremer III, the chief American administrator in Iraq, dropped into this holy city on Monday to give the revolution a gentle nudge.
 Mr. Bremer shook hands with a group of Iraqi women, some of whom needed the permission of their husbands before they could attend the day's events. He posed with them in pictures, with some wearing the traditional head-to-toe abayas. He inspected a range of women's projects being realized with American money. 
 With about 100 Iraqi women seated before him, Mr. Bremer promised America's continued support for the profound changes in the works for Iraq's women.
 ''Anyone seeing all this talent and ability here, they would recognize that barriers placed in the way of women are barriers to the development and growth and prosperity of Iraq, and indeed the Arab world,'' he told them. ''We in the coalition are committed to continuing to promote women's rights in Iraq.''
 The Iraqi women gave Mr. Bremer a hefty round of applause. The husbands, who had been asked to stand in the back, clapped too.
 The event was the opening of the Zainab al-Hawraa Center for Women's Rights, a former Baath Party building converted with $163,000 in American money to a place where women can acquire job skills and learn about their political rights.
 It is a modest place, a four-story building, in this city famous for its Shiite shrines. The center has a library, a computer room and an area for sewing lessons.
 But the center is a small part of a much larger effort under way, backed by the American government, to broaden the opportunities for women and ensure them a role in governing their country.
 The most striking proposal, now included in a draft of Iraq's transitional constitution, asks that 40 percent of seats in the National Assembly be set aside for women. It would also ensure that men and women are treated equally under the law.
 Such proposals are regarded by many here as too much too soon. When the draft began circulating last month among members of the Iraqi Governing Council, there were grumbles that the language about women needed to be scaled back.
 Mr. Bremer, whose word carries the extra weight of veto power over the temporary constitution, seemed unbowed by those complaints. In his speech he cited a recent United Nations report that attributed many of the Arab world's human and economic problems to poor treatment of women.
 ''The Arab world is largely depriving itself of the creativity and productivity of half of its citizens,'' he said.
 In an interview afterward, he said that while he was ''uneasy'' with the notion of quotas, he believed it necessary for Iraqi women to have a ''very substantial presence'' in political institutions.
 ''You have to have more than a token representation,'' Mr. Bremer said. ''There has to be a kind of critical mass, where the women draw confidence from each other's presence.''
 Mr. Bremer pointed out that women are a clear majority in Iraq, in large part because of the deaths of so many men in the wars, foreign and domestic, of Saddam Hussein.
 Many of the women who gathered here were widows, and they seemed especially grateful for the place. One was Nawal Jabar, a 44-year-old mother of five, whose husband died in 1987 in the war with Iran.
 Since then, Ms. Jabar said, she has depended on her brother and father to support her family, which includes a 24-year-old disabled son. Her father, who is elderly, is now ill as well, and so Ms. Jabar's quest for a better life has taken on an added urgency. 
 ''I have to learn a skill,'' she said, before Mr. Bremer's speech. ''I will do anything to support my family.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: L. Paul Bremer III, the administrator of Iraq, greets children at a women's center in Karbala that is being financed by the United States. (Photo by Pool photo by Brennan Linsley) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); WOMEN (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (71%); POLITICS (68%); VETO (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); TERRORISM (59%) Women; Discrimination; United States International Relations; Politics and Government; Quotas; Legislatures and Parliaments; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: L Paul III Bremer; Dexter Filkins

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



403 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Haiti's Embattled Leader Vows to Finish Term

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Feb. 16 

 BODY:
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, defiant in the face of an increasingly violent opposition movement, denounced it on Monday as an effort to overthrow Haiti's elected government and declared that only he can save the country from civil war. 
 ''We have had 32 coups in our history,'' Mr. Aristide said in an hourlong interview with The New York Times at the National Palace on Monday morning. ''The result is what we have now: moving from misery to poverty. We need not continue moving from one coup d'etat to another coup d'etat, but from one elected president to another elected president.''
 Asked whether he would consider stepping aside to prevent further bloodshed in a conflict that has killed dozens of people and paralyzed much of the country, he replied: ''I will leave office Feb. 7, 2006. My responsibility is precisely to prevent that from happening. What we are doing now is preventing bloodshed.'' 
 Speaking in an anteroom outside his spacious office, he called for armed opposition groups to lay down their weapons and for political opponents to begin discussions with the aim of having new parliamentary elections as soon as possible. 
 ''It is time for us to stop the violence and to implement the Caricom proposal for elections,'' Mr. Aristide said, referring to the plan of the Caribbean Community, an organization of Caribbean states, to build trust between the government and opposition groups as part of the groundwork for new parliamentary elections.
 Political strife has swept the country since 2000, when a dispute over parliamentary elections that the Organization of American States and other foreign observers said were flawed led opposition political parties to boycott the presidential election later that year. 
 The confrontation has escalated in recent months as opposition groups took to the streets to protest what they contend is Mr. Aristide's increasingly autocratic style. This month, the political dispute turned violent, with armed groups overrunning police stations in a dozen cities and towns. 
 The violence spread further on Monday. Militants took over the police station in Hinche, a town about 45 miles northeast of Port-au-Prince, the capital, killing the police chief, The Associated Press reported.
 Now, with a violent group of former Aristide supporters in control of Gonaives, a major city on the main north-south highway between the capital and Cap Haitien, the country's second largest city, a crisis looms in the arid north, where more than a quarter million people need food assistance to survive. 
 The current political crisis is a dramatic reversal for Mr. Aristide, once a parish priest serving in the slums who became the country's first democratically elected president. He was revered by millions, especially among Haiti's rural and urban poor, and seen as the savior who would finally lift the poorest nation in the Western Hemisphere. He turned in his clerical collar for a wedding ring, marrying an American-born Haitian, and his vestments for business suits. 
 Opposition groups and diplomats accuse him of forming militant gangs that act as a sort of auxiliary force to the police. One such group is behind the uprising in Gonaives. Its leaders say they have joined with sinister figures from the country's violent past, including the leader of death squads that terrorized the country after the coup in 1991 that ousted Mr. Aristide. The United States returned him to power with 20,000 American troops in 1994. 
 The 2000 elections led to the suspension of $500 million in international aid, an act Mr. Aristide refers to as an ''economic embargo,'' and he blames this suspension for his failure to transform Haiti's economy, health and education. ''I don't say I am the best,'' Mr. Aristide said. ''But think of what I did with nothing in terms of financial resources.''
 He said his main achievement, however, was reviving Haiti's spirit. He cited a march on Feb. 7, which the government claims drew a million people in support of his presidency. ''The Haitian people want to live with dignity,'' Mr. Aristide said. ''We don't sell our dignity. Dignity is linked to freedom. We don't sell our freedom.
 ''If last Saturday, despite the economic situation, one million marched in a peaceful way, it is because they see we are not lying to them, we are telling them the truth. Dignity, freedom and truth are linked.''
 Political and civic opposition groups, who disavow any connection with the armed uprisings, have said they will not take part in elections until Mr. Aristide steps down. 
 ''It is impossible to get free, honest and democratic elections with Jean-Bertrand Aristide in the National Palace because he will control the whole process,'' said Micha Gaillard, a leader of the Democratic Convergence, the main opposition group, in an interview on Monday. ''But if the first step for him is not to resign, then he should deliver what Caricom asked him to do.'' 
 The Caricom proposals would require Mr. Aristide to take a number of steps, from ensuring that opposition marches can go forward to disarming groups of militants loyal to the president. He must also reform the country's tiny police force, which has fewer than 4,000 members, and form a governing council that would include opposition groups. Mr. Aristide said he has begun taking action on all of those requirements, but offered little concrete evidence, only future plans. 
 Mr. Aristide said opposition groups do not support elections because they are afraid they will lose and would rather let the country slowly destabilize. ''They fear the principle of 'one man, one vote,' '' Mr. Aristide said. ''They don't fear me; they fear the people. And they don't fear the people because the people are violent. They fear the people because the people are ready to vote.''
 He accused the leaders of political and civic opposition groups of being in league with the militants who have taken over Gonaives. ''The government is doing what it can to have a safe environment,'' he said. ''On the other side, they are killing people, keeping 150,000 people hostage in Gonaives.'' 
 Mr. Aristide condemned the involvement of Louis-Jodel Chamblain, an official in the former Haitian Army who was accused of committing many atrocities as part of the Front for the Advancement and Progress of Haiti, known as Fraph, after the 1991 coup. 
 ''Fraph and the army killed more than 5,000 people and pigs were eating their corpses,'' he said. ''And today Fraph is back.''
 Experts on Haitian politics said the arrival of militants like Mr. Chamblain had made it all the more urgent that the current crisis be resolved quickly, before those forces take control of a larger portion of the country. 
 Henry Carey, a professor of political science at Georgia State University, said the opposition must abandon its insistence that no elections be held until Mr. Aristide is gone. ''What they should do is put the interests of country ahead of their own antipathy and own personal enmity,'' Professor Carey said. 
 At the same time, Mr. Aristide must own up to relying on violent gangs and take the necessary steps to disarm and neutralize them, Professor Carey said. ''What he has got to do is stop the violation of human rights and he has got to demobilize these violent groups,'' he said. ''But he can't do that without international help.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in his office yesterday at the National Palace in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUPS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLICE FORCES (86%); INTERVIEWS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); RIOTS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); SLUM DWELLINGS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); CITY LIFE (66%); CITIES (61%) Politics and Government; Elections; Demonstrations and Riots

ORGANIZATION: CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY & COMMON MARKET (82%); CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY (54%)

PERSON: Jean-Bertrand (Pres) Aristide; Lydia Polgreen

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Haiti

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



404 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: It's Home Stupid Home, But the 'Clods' Can Read

BYLINE: By BARBARA NOVOVITCH

DATELINE: ALPINE, Tex., Feb. 16 

 BODY:
The first indication that Dr. Larry J. Sechrest's neighbors and students had read his article titled ''A Strange Little Town in Texas'' was when he began receiving death threats and obscene phone calls and his house was vandalized.
 The article by Dr. Sechrest, an economics professor at Sul Ross State University, was published in the January issue of Liberty, a small libertarian magazine with a circulation of about 10,000 and only two local subscribers, one of whom is Dr. Sechrest. But it was weeks before people heard about it in remote Alpine, which is three hours from the closest Barnes & Noble, in Midland, Tex. 
 The article lauded the beauty of West Texas, the pleasant climate, the friendliness and tolerance of the locals. But Dr. Sechrest, who has a Ph.D. in business administration from the University of Texas, also contended that ''the students at Sul Ross, and more generally, the long-term residents of the entire area, are appallingly ignorant, irrational, anti-intellectual, and, well, . . . just plain stupid.''
 Criticizing the academic standards at Sul Ross State University, part of the Texas State University system, he told of a student who, after graduation, typed a note to a favorite professor, saying, ''Thank you for all your patients.''
 In the fall of 2002, his article said, ''42 percent of our freshmen had to take remedial classes in reading, writing, or math just to meet the state's ridiculously low standard of 'competence.' '' 
 He added, ''The taxpayers of Texas have already paid for these kids to learn English and math in middle school, then again in high school, much of which is a review of what they were supposed to have absorbed in previous years.''
 Dr. Sechrest wrote that he was ''prepared to defend to the death the proposition that Sul Ross, and this area of Texas more generally, is the proud home of some of the dumbest clods on the planet.''
 The article, copied and passed around by the hundreds, led to two anonymous death threats on Dr. Sechrest's office phone, scores of obscene phone calls in the middle of the night, eggs tossed at his home and windows smashed on a car parked outside his house. 
 In a recent interview, Dr. Sechrest said he never expected the people in Alpine to read the article, nor did he expect such violent reaction.
 He thought of his piece as ''a Mark Twain sort of thing, meant to be light-hearted,'' he said. ''I can't believe there's such anger -- not in Alpine!''
 After their initial outrage, however, some of his neighbors and some local business owners decided to ''turn lemons into lemonade,'' as the owner of the Apache Trading Post, Charlotte Allen, put it. 
 Mayor Mickey Clouse issued a proclamation establishing We Love Alpine Week, which was Feb. 6 to 14. It included a parade on Feb. 7 that drew about 100 people and a rally at the midtown Railroad Park that attracted about 65 people despite a cold snap.
 ''He's done us a favor,'' Ms. Allen said, ''galvanized the whole area.''
 She added: ''Business has been in a malaise. Now we've had this incredible group effort. We think maybe we'll make it an annual event.''
 At the Feb. 13 rally, Mayor Clouse encouraged all in attendance to send Valentines to ''the occupant'' and then gave Dr. Sechrest's address. 
 Dr. Sechrest, 57, a burly, gray-bearded man, said: ''I did not go one step out of my way to throw this in people's faces. Am I going to apologize for it? No. But I never intended to insult them.''
 He acknowledged he felt frustrated because the Sul Ross president, Dr. R. Vic Morgan, and other university administrators have not, in his opinion, done enough to raise academic standards. 
 ''We're not achieving very much in the way of education,'' said Dr. Sechrest, a tenured professor who has taught at the university for 13 years. ''Half the teachers in my department don't give final tests, so that means they just take an extra week off. Sul Ross does not have top-flight people. There's always pressure on to let kids slide.''
 Dr. Morgan issued a statement in response to the professor's criticism. ''The views of Dr. Sechrest do not reflect the view of Sul Ross State University,'' he wrote. ''We can cite thousands of success stories that include Sul Ross faculty, Sul Ross experiences and Sul Ross diplomas as stepping stones.'' 
 ''He's entitled to his opinion,'' Dr. Morgan said in a telephone interview. ''We happen to disagree with him.''
 Asked about Dr. Sechrest's comment on final exams, Dr. Morgan said that all faculty members were encouraged to give final exams. The faculty, he said, has ''academic freedom to teach their students. I do not believe that you will find faculty at Sul Ross different in terms of the way they grade students from any other institution in the state. There are faculty who don't give finals; if they choose not to, that's their option.''
 Last week Dr. Sechrest said he had begun to receive more positive e-mail and phone calls. He noted in particular an e-mail message from a former student.
 ''As I read your article I found myself laughing out loud and saying things like 'amen' and 'true,' '' the former student wrote. ''At the same time I felt somewhat guilty because it really did offend people I really care about. There's no denying these are legitimate concerns. The lack of interest in anything beyond Brewster County lines also baffled me.''
 The student added, ''It is my sincere hope that all involved can extract what is true and good from your article, and get over the rest.'' 
 The message was signed, ''A former clod.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Alpine residents paraded their pride on Feb. 7, not long after learning what a local professor had to say about their home and their college. (Photo by Mary Ann Hayes)
 Dr. Larry J. Sechrest refuses to eat his correctly spelled words. (Photo by Barbara Novovitch for The New York Times)Map of Texas highlighting Alpine: Unflattering published comments resulted in a backlash in Alpine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); VANDALISM (77%); TRENDS (76%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); RIOTS (64%) Geographic Profiles; Colleges and Universities; Social Conditions and Trends; Demonstrations and Riots; Threats and Threatening Messages

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%) Sul Ross State University (Tex)

PERSON: barbara novovitch; Larry J (Dr) Sechrest

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Alpine (Tex); Texas; Alpine (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



405 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 5; On Baseball

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Major Trades Become Case of Pay as They Go

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
IF the average salary can climb to $2.4 million from $51,500, if the minimum salary can rise to $300,000 from $19,000, and if the heftiest contract can escalate to $252 million from $3.35 million, it's not incongruous that the amount of money allowed in a player trade should soar to $67 million from $400,000. 
 That's what has happened in baseball in the past quarter of a century or so. Paul Lindblad, meet Alex Rodriguez.
 Commissioner Bud Selig approved the Yankees' acquisition of Rodriguez from the Texas Rangers yesterday, meaning he will allow the Rangers to pay $67 million of the remaining $179 million of Rodriguez's salary. 
 ''I am very concerned about the large amount of cash consideration involved in the transaction,'' Selig said in a statement. He went on to warn clubs that he would ''not allow cash transfers of this magnitude to become the norm.''
 Several years ago, Selig established a $1 million limit on cash in deals, a limit he has felt compelled to waive in an increasing number of cases.
 Bowie Kuhn was the first commissioner to set a maximum. He did it in 1977, 27 years ago this week, when the Oakland Athletics sold Lindblad, a relief pitcher, to the Texas Rangers for $400,000. 
 The sum was considered large at the time, and it did not please Kuhn.
 The previous summer, Kuhn vetoed the Athletics' sale of Vida Blue to the Yankees and Joe Rudi and Rollie Fingers to the Boston Red Sox for a total of $3.5 million. 
 Kuhn believed Charles O. Finley, the Oakland owner, who would call Kuhn the ''village idiot,'' was stripping his roster for cash and not replacing the players.
 In blocking the sale of Blue, Rudi and Fingers, Kuhn did not say what amount of money he would allow in a deal, but when Finley sold Lindblad for $400,000, Kuhn notified all clubs that that figure would stand as the maximum.
 The figure seems quaint in the face of the Rangers' $67 million contribution to the Yankees' send-this-boy-to-camp -- their camp -- plan. 
 But Selig views this type of deal pragmatically, and he understood that the Rangers needed to get out from under the economic weight of the Rodriguez contract, for the sake of the team and for the sake of its struggling owner, Tom Hicks.
 Hicks, of course, created his own problem when he met Rodriguez three years ago and fell hard for him. He had to have this young man on his team, he concluded, and offered him $100 million more than anyone else had or would.
 No fool, Rodriguez recognized an offer he couldn't refuse and convinced himself that the last-place Rangers would rise again. Rodriguez, as it turns out, is a better producer of runs than he is a producer of proper projections.
 By the start of the off-season, Rodriguez was telling anyone who would listen that he had to escape the Rangers. 
 He even told Selig in November when they met at Sammy Sosa's birthday party in the Dominican Republic.
 Selig evidently had that conversation in mind, as well as the Rangers' need to gain some flexibility with their payroll, when he made his decision yesterday.
 For those Red Sox fans who believe that baseball and its union are conspiring against their team, they should know that Selig was prepared to approve Rodriguez's trade to the Red Sox earlier in the winter had the teams worked out a satisfactory deal.
 In the past few years, Selig has approved trades that included more than $1 million in cash.
 In November 2002, he waived the maximum to enable Mike Hampton to go to Atlanta from Colorado by way of Florida. 
 The $36.5 million in that transaction was the record high before the Rangers and the Yankees produced their deal.
 In the Hampton trade, the Marlins agreed to pay the Braves $30 million, and the Rockies agreed to pay the Marlins $6.5 million.
 Before that deal, the most money in a trade was the $6 million the Toronto Blue Jays paid the Yankees to take Raul Mondesi off their hands. The money was to pay nearly half of Mondesi's $13 million salary last season.
 But when the Yankees traded Mondesi to Arizona last season, they agreed to send $4 million with him.
 When the Yankees obtained Chuck Knoblauch from Minnesota in 1998, the Twins included $3 million in the package. 
 Around the same time, the Yankees traded Kenny Rogers and gave Oakland $5 million to offset Rogers's salary.
 Sometimes, a club pays almost the entire salary of a player it trades. When the Mets traded shortstop Rey Ordonez to Tampa Bay before last season, they gave the Devil Rays $4.25 million of his $6.25 million salary.
 Just this November, the woebegone Devil Rays did even better when they obtained Tino Martinez from St. Louis. 
 Martinez has a $7.5 million salary for the coming season, and the Cardinals agreed to pay $7 million of that amount.
 In their euphoria at acquiring Rodriguez and having to pay him an average of only $16 million a year, the Yankees might want to consider making another payment, one Selig would not have to approve.
 This would not have happened if Aaron Boone had not wrecked his knee playing basketball. He, not Rodriguez, would be the Yankees' third baseman.
 So instead of releasing Boone from his contract because he violated its terms by playing basketball and paying him only 30 days' pay, $942,623, keep him and pay him the entire salary of $5.75 million. Call it a finder's fee. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); SPORTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (76%); APPROVALS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS RANGERS (84%); OAKLAND A'S (55%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (54%) TEXAS, USA (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



406 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE BATTLEGROUND

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: AS AIDE DEPARTS, DEAN SAYS HIS BID WILL KEEP GOING

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JODI WILGOREN; Randal C. Archibold contributed reporting from Wisconsin for this article.

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE, Feb. 16 

 BODY:
Howard Dean vowed on Monday to continue his bid for the presidency, even after his campaign chairman defected and he appeared headed for a defeat in Wisconsin. But with some Dean supporters warning that he could not survive another loss, Senators John Kerry and John Edwards began contemplating the contours of a two-man race starting Wednesday.
 The three main Democratic presidential candidates raced across Wisconsin -- their charter jets crossing wings on runways in remote stretches of this state -- but the main question was less about what would happen on Tuesday, when Wisconsin holds a primary that Dr. Dean said he must win, and more about what would happen on Wednesday.
 With a series of polls showing Mr. Kerry in position to roll up another victory here, Mr. Edwards declared that he would not quit the race and said he was now looking forward to what he said would be a two-way contest with Mr. Kerry going into a heavy schedule of primaries in early March. 
 ''We are going on,'' Mr. Edwards said in an interview, asserting that his biggest obstacle has been a fast-paced primary calendar that has not given him time to catch up with Mr. Kerry. ''In every single state, we have been rising on election day, every single one. It's just a time issue.''
 Mr. Kerry prepared for a trip on Wednesday to Ohio, followed by what his campaign said would be a coast-to-coast tour of other states that vote on March 2. He spent most of Monday focusing on President Bush, as if the primaries were over and the general election had begun.
 ''I've never seen a bigger say-one-thing-do-another administration than this crowd in Washington,'' Mr. Kerry said to one of several huge crowds he encountered, this one in Wausau. ''George Bush, you know, he's already started the attack ads. I welcome it, folks.''
 Dr. Dean was preparing to return to his home in Burlington, Vt., to plan what shape his campaign might take now as he absorbed the loss of his campaign chairman, Steven Grossman, to the Kerry campaign and the prospect that other of his senior aides would leave as soon as the votes were counted here on Tuesday.
 Throughout the day, he veered between defiance -- when a crowd in Madison chanted, ''We want Dean,'' he responded, ''Well if you vote for him, you'll have him'' -- and doubt about what his future held for him should he lose again on Wednesday.
 ''I still have some hope of being the nominee,'' Dr. Dean said at one point, as he encountered repeated questions from reporters about whether he could survive the vote in Wisconsin. At another point he said: ''We're just going to have to see how we do, but, I'll have plenty to say after Wisconsin depending on whether we win or lose.''
 ''Let me remind you all that I have more delegates than everyone else in this race except John Kerry,'' Dr. Dean told reporters, an edge of anger in his voice. ''So I think the campaign obituaries that some of you have been writing are a little misplaced. ''
 ''John Edwards said the other day this is a two-person race,'' he said. ''I would agree. It's a two-person race between me and John Kerry. ''
 Still, Dr. Dean sounded at times as if a burden was being lifted from his shoulders. He avoided the harsh criticism of Mr. Kerry that he had raised proudly the week before, instead praising both Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards as ''fine people.'' He refused to answer a routine question about whether he would have authorized the use of nuclear weapons were he in the shoes of Harry S. Truman, his favorite president, explaining, ''I just don't feel like it.'' 
 High-level aides in the campaign said they expect Dr. Dean to keep his name on the ballot -- part of his reluctance to quit, some say, was hearing that it would be erased if he conceded. The aides also said they think Dr. Dean will use his e-mail list of supporters to raise money for other Democrats. 
 Staff members expect to soon lose their paychecks, and think Dr. Dean himself will probably significantly cut back his public schedule. But aides, even while describing him as veering back and forth about whether to press on, said that they could not see how he could continue to be a serious candidate should he lose Wisconsin by a big margin.
 ''I know what all of us think he ought to do,'' one senior aide said. ''But he needs to decide whether he should do it first, and when and how. Maybe it's Wednesday, maybe it's Thursday, maybe it's Friday, maybe it's not for two more weeks. Anybody who says they do know is lying to you. He's going to get there eventually, but I don't know when.''
 Mr. Edwards vowed on Monday that should he find himself in a two-person race with Mr. Kerry, he would draw distinctions with the Massachusetts senator on issues of substance. As an example, he again raised Mr. Kerry's support for the North American Free Trade Agreement, an issue he challenged Mr. Kerry on in South Carolina and again at a debate here on Sunday night.
 Aides said he would raise Mr. Kerry's Nafta votes in contests across the Rust Belt and in the South, arguing that the treaty had produced an exodus of jobs from the United States. 
 ''There is a choice for Wisconsin voters: I'm against Nafta, I was against Nafta,'' said Mr. Edwards, who was not in the Senate when the treaty was approved. ''Governor Dean and Senator Kerry were for it.''
 Mr. Kerry, questioned about his support for Nafta by a voter at one town hall meeting, did not back away from his vote for it, but said he would as president appoint a commission to make changes in it. 
 ''This administration has not stood up and fought for the rights of the American worker,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''I'm not going to throw Nafta out completely: I'm going to fix it.''
 And he said it was a mistake to blame the nation's economic problems on liberalized trade agreements. ''President Bush's recovery has been almost as bad as his recession,'' he said.
 Mr. Edwards's aides said that their shot against Mr. Kerry would be clearer if Dr. Dean did drop out or was effectively marginalized by the result on Wednesday. But Mr. Edwards' communications director, David Ginsberg, said Mr. Edwards would still be able to compete effectively even if Dr. Dean stuck around.
 ''The Edwards message is getting through and it's not dependent on who else is in the race,'' he said.
 In an interview, Mr. Edwards said that he believed the quick campaign schedule -- specifically designed by Democratic leaders to produce an early nominee -- had the effect of creating momentum for candidates who win Iowa and New Hampshire that was very difficult to stop once the race expanded out across the country.
 ''There is not a lot of time for people to make a choice,'' he said. ''It's not the kind of time we had in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina for people to see us and say that's who I'm for, which is what I want to see happen.''
 Mr. Edwards said he would campaign in every state that votes March 2, but said he would focus particularly on New York, Georgia and Ohio, where he argued that his message about manufacturing job losses would resonate. He stopped short of saying he would make an all-out effort in California, which has by far the highest number of delegates at stake, 370. With the cost of air travel and television time, it is also by far the most expensive state in which to campaign.
 Mr. Kerry has avoided any criticism of Dr. Dean, with an eye toward rounding up his supporters if and when Dr. Dean drops out. Aboard his plane on Monday, Mr. Kerry reported that he and Dr. Dean had a ''very nice conversation'' on Sunday night.
 ''He was very warm,'' Mr. Kerry said.
 Dr. Dean encountered a number of reminders throughout what some of his own aides said could prove to be, for all intents and purposes, the final day of his candidacy as he traveled through Wisconsin.
 At the rally in La Crosse, Dr. Dean was not introduced, as candidates typically are, as ''the next president of the United States,'' but as ''a man who can bring real change to this country.''
 ''Whatever happens tomorrow, we are going on,'' Dr. Dean told the half-empty room, where Green Bay Packers insignia outnumbered Dean logos on T-shirts. Mentioning environmental change, universal health insurance and job creation, he said, ''we're going to keep that going until we get the reforms we want.'' 
 In answer to a question from the crowd, Dr. Dean said that after the year he has had, he is reluctant to disband the organizations that had grown up around his candidacy.
 ''This whole campaign is about empowering people -- it is not from a top-down campaign that tells you what to do, it is you telling us what to do,'' he said. ''I'm never going to be able to deliver 700,000 people to whoever the nominee is, and I wouldn't want that power. The one thing I'm going to ask everyone to do is in some way make sure George Bush doesn't get re-elected president of the United States.''
 It was unclear to even Dr. Dean's aides what he might do should he decide to stay in the race. He might keep his name or the ballot, but go back to Vermont, and turn out for the occasional trip or event.
 He is likely, aides said, to use his extensive fund-raising apparatus to help other candidates, which would be a way to continue influencing elections and maintaining some political clout.


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Edwards, campaigning yesterday in Milwaukee, hopes to be in a two-person race after today's voting. (Photo by Getty Images)
Howard Dean waited in the kitchen of the Labor Temple in Wausau, Wis., as he was introduced at a rally there yesterday, the same day his campaign chairman, Steven Grossman, left, resigned from the campaign. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times )
(Photo by Associated Press)
 Senator John Kerry after Senator Edward M. Kennedy introduced him yesterday at a Green Bay, Wis., rally. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (71%) Presidential Election of 2004; Finances; Primaries; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2004; Computers and the Internet

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); TED KENNEDY (58%) Howard (Dr) Dean; John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards; Steven Grossman; Adam Nagourney; Jodi Wilgoren; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: WAUSAU, WI, USA (88%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (73%); GREEN BAY, WI, USA (58%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (52%) WISCONSIN, USA (97%); VERMONT, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Wisconsin; Wausau (Wis)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



407 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ARAB-AMERICANS

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Arabs in U.S. Raising Money To Back Bush

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
Wealthy Arab-Americans and foreign-born Muslims who strongly back President Bush's decision to invade Iraq are adding their names to the ranks of Pioneers and Rangers, the elite Bush supporters who have raised $100,000 or more for his re-election.
 This new crop of fund-raisers comes as some opinion polls suggest support for the president among Arab-Americans is sinking and at a time when strategists from both parties say Mr. Bush is losing ground with this group. Mr. Bush has been criticized by Arab-Americans who feel they are being singled out in the fight against terrorism and who are uneasy over the administration's Palestinian-Israeli policies.
 Yet the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and the war in Iraq have been a catalyst for some wealthy Arab-Americans to become more involved in politics. And there are still others who have a more practical reason for opening their checkbooks: access to a business-friendly White House. Already, their efforts have brought them visits with the president at his ranch in Crawford, Tex., as well as White House dinners and meetings with top administration officials. 
 The fund-raisers are people like Mori Hosseini, the Iranian-born chief executive of ICI Homes, a home builder in Daytona Beach, Fla. Mr. Hosseini is a Ranger, gaining the top designation after raising $200,000 from his family and acquaintances. (The minimum level of money raised for a Ranger is $200,000, while it takes $100,000 to be a Pioneer.) 
 Never before has Mr. Hosseini been this active politically. But he said he was inspired by Mr. Bush's ''decisive'' action, especially in Iraq, and Mr. Hosseini's efforts have led to an invitation to a White House Christmas party and a private meeting with the president and a handful of other donors at a recent fund-raiser at Disney World. 
 ''He has saved Iraq,'' said Mr. Hosseini, who left Iran when he was 13. ''He's the savior, if not of Iraq, but also of the other countries around Iraq. They want freedom. I am so sure of this because I am from that part of the world.''
 Mr. Hosseini's enthusiasm runs counter to what some polls say is a drop in Mr. Bush's popularity among Arab-Americans. In a recent release, the Arab American Institute, a nonprofit organization representing Arab-American interests in government and politics, said Mr. Bush's support had fallen sharply since the 2000 election. A January poll conducted for the group by Zogby International, which is headed by John Zogby, a Lebanese-American, found that Mr. Bush's approval rating among Arab-Americans had fallen to 38 percent from as high as 83 percent in October 2001.
 The biggest reason for this drop-off, according to the institute's poll, is concern over Arab-Americans' No. 1 issue, the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. To many Arab-Americans, the administration's actions are seen as more pro-Israel than evenhanded, especially its support of Ariel Sharon, the Israeli prime minister. 
 In addition, a program begun after 9/11 that required thousands of Arab and Muslim men to register with the immigration officials has sent chills through Arab-Americans, as has the antiterrorism law known as the USA Patriot Act, which Arab-Americans say is a threat to their civil liberties. 
 Even so, prominent Arab-Americans have kept the money flowing.
 ''It's like the Catholic Church,'' said Mr. Zogby, whose brother, James, is president of the Arab American Institute. ''The total dollars are up, but the number of donors is down.'' 
 One reason may be that Arab-Americans are not a monolithic group. The term is used generally to refer to people from Arab countries, but they may have diverse religious, ethnic and cultural backgrounds, like Lebanese and other Arab Christians or Muslims from Egypt and Pakistan. Many Arab-Americans left their countries because of political and economic oppression and are now small-business owners or entrepreneurs who say the Republican Party best represents their values.
 As with any specific group, it is impossible to determine exactly how much of Mr. Bush's campaign money comes from Arab-Americans.
 Fred Pezeshkan counts himself among the Republican hard core. For the past 25 years, Mr. Pezeshkan has lived in Naples, Fla., where he is president of the Krate Construction Company. He is also a first-time Ranger, having raised $200,000 for Mr. Bush. In previous years, except for voting Republican, the Iranian-born Mr. Pezeshkan was not politically active.
 But to Mr. Pezeshkan, the invasion of Iraq shows ''a strong American interest to go to those countries in the Middle East and bring democracy, culture, education, hospitals and the things that they need.'' 
 Scott Stanzel, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, said that the campaign was ''working hard to maintain'' support given by Arab-Americans in 2000, but that it had no special outreach programs for them.
 George Salem, chairman of the Arab American Institute and a political adviser to Presidents Ronald Reagan and the elder George Bush, said the younger Mr. Bush was ''a more difficult sell to some segments'' of the Arab-American population, especially because of the new antiterrorism law.
 Mr. Salem, a Washington lawyer, said Mr. Bush had two big selling points: he was the first president in recent memory to call for an independent Palestinian state, and he made two high-level Arab-American appointments, Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham and the director of the Office of Management and Budget, Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., whose father is from Syria.
 One of the largest concentrations of Arab-Americans is in Detroit, home to Yousif Ghafari, a Lebanese Christian who came to the United States in 1972 and now heads his own engineering firm.
 For years Mr. Ghafari donated to the Republican Party, but this year he stepped up the pace, raising $350,000 to become a Ranger. He said that ''the 9/11 situation was a bad situation for us'' but that he supported Mr. Bush for ''taking the initiative'' to oust Saddam Hussein and believed that Mr. Bush had the capacity to resolve the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. 
 ''The Western-educated and business-motivated know that the whole Middle Eastern region has to change,'' said Mr. Ghafari, who collected donations from non-Arabs as well.
 One of those Mr. Ghafari tapped is Tim Attallah, a Dearborn lawyer and a first-generation Palestinian-American. Mr. Attallah, who donated $2,000, said he was having a hard time reconciling his personal beliefs with some of the Bush administration's policies. 
 In 1993, Mr. Attallah stood on the White House lawn as an invited guest when the Israeli-Palestinian peace accord was signed. But now, he said, he is troubled by the administration's stance in the Palestinian-Israeli conflict and is concerned about the antiterrorism law and the lack of Republican leaders campaigning for Arab-American votes. 
 ''These are tough times for us, and we have not seen our friends,'' Mr. Attallah said.
 Big donations have brought high-level access for Dr. Malik Hasan, a native of Pakistan and the former chief executive of Foundation Health Systems of Denver, one of the largest health maintenance organizations. In the past decade, Dr. Hasan has given several hundred thousand dollars to Mr. Bush and the Republican Party, including a $100,000 check to the Bush inaugural committee. 
 This year, Dr. Hasan is a Pioneer. In the past few months he has met personally with Mr. Bush, once at a White House dinner and again at a fund-raiser in Washington. He visited with Mr. Bush at the president's ranch, and Dr. Hasan's wife, Seeme, has been brought into high-level meetings on Arab-American concerns.
 The couple say they are still fans of Mr. Bush, even though, Mrs. Hasan said, their American-born son was recently surrounded by the police and detained at an airport for no apparent reason other than his ethnic background.
 ''As a Muslim I felt it was wonderful that Saddam Hussein was removed,'' Dr. Hasan said. ''The rest of the Muslim countries were standing there doing nothing. Honestly, I wrote to the president and said I adored his accomplishments.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 18, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A headline yesterday on a front-page article about fund-raising for President Bush's re-election referred imprecisely to donors described in the article. Not all are Arab-Americans; they include Pakistani and Iranian-born donors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARAB AMERICANS (93%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); POLITICS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TERRORISM (74%); RELIGION (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CHRISTMAS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (65%) Presidential Election of 2004; Arab-Americans; Finances; Election Issues; Terrorism; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004; Discrimination; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

COMPANY: ZOGBY INTERNATIONAL INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) George W (Pres) Bush; Mori Hosseini; Fred Pezeshkan; Yousif Ghafari; Leslie Wayne

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); LEBANON (79%) Iraq; Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



408 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1; SPORTS BUSINESS

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Steinbrenner Has Got It, And He Loves to Flaunt It

BYLINE: By Richard Sandomir

 BODY:
George Steinbrenner embodies the ''evil empire'' to the Boston Red Sox, but as the principal owner of the Yankees, he is more like the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board in his ability to influence Major League Baseball's financial landscape.
 The baseball community reacts as intensely to Steinbrenner's actions as an owner as Wall Street does to the interest-rate ruminations of Alan Greenspan, the real Fed chairman. Some disagree with Greenspan's views, but no one has called him evil.
 Steinbrenner is a laissez-faire spender who has uncorked his money supply to deploy free agency as the ultimate capitalist tool. 
 As the Broadway producer Max Bialystock says nightly in ''The Producers,'' ''If you've got it, flaunt it, baby, flaunt it.''
 Now that he has acquired Alex Rodriguez from Texas, Steinbrenner can flaunt the fact that after a fevered off-season of player movement and financial legerdemain (including having Texas pay $67 million, or 37 percent, of what remains on Rodriguez's contract), his projected $180 million payroll for 2004 is not much different than it was at the end of last season.
 But the Boss couldn't extol this payroll stability if he didn't have the cash flow to get to $180 million in the first place.
 ''Although our revenues are higher than most, and our expenses are higher than most, we still have to operate rationally and prudently,'' Randy Levine, the Yankees' president, said yesterday in an interview.
 The Yankees hardly need to justify what they do. Cash pours into the Yankees like no other baseball team, starting with well more than $100 million in revenue (in 2001, they reported $98 million) from nearly 3.5 million paying customers, who have been paying steadily more over the past few years.
 Then there is about $60 million in annual payments from the YES Network and about $10 million more from WCBS Radio; at least $30 million from national television, licensing and sponsorship revenues; and still more from local sponsorships and concessions.
 Total revenue is not public, but when baseball opened its books after the 2001 season, the Yankees' revenue that year was $242 million. It's fair to say that it is considerably higher now. Andrew Zimbalist, a professor of economics at Smith College and the author of two books on baseball finances, suggested yesterday that the Yankees may be bringing in at least $330 million. It is serendipitous that Cash is the nickname for Brian Cashman, the Yankees' general manager.
 Whatever the Yankees' actual revenue is, it must support the payroll, revenue-sharing and luxury-tax payments, and various other expenses like player development. And it still must not choke Steinbrenner's bottom line. 
 For the 2003 season, revenue-sharing and the luxury tax cost the Yankees a combined $60 million. The Yankees were the only team to exceed the luxury-tax threshold for 2003 -- they did so by having a payroll of more than $117 million -- and were the only team to pay a luxury tax. In the Yankees' case, that meant a payment of $11.8 million based on a 17.5 percent tax on the amount that their payroll exceeded $117 mllion.
 Assuming that Steinbrenner doesn't rashly cut $65 million from his 2004 payroll in a midseason purge, the Yankees will be taxed at a second-offender's rate of 30 percent for the coming season and the luxury-tax could surge to $15 million or more, depending upon the makeup of the roster and how much the payroll exceeds $120.5 million.
 ''Just say they finish at $190 million, and they're $70 million over the luxury-tax threshold,'' Zimbalist said of the Yankees' situation in 2004. ''The tax would be $21 million.''
 As if the Yankees needed something else to crow about financially, here is one more: a debt-free team.
 ''He doesn't have a huge acquisition cost like the Red Sox or the Dodgers,'' Marc Ganis, an industry consultant, said.
 Steinbrenner bought the Yankees in 1973 for $10.3 million. But Frank McCourt's highly leveraged $430 million purchase of the Dodgers last month requires that he make debt payments of $18 million to $25 million part of his annual financial picture, Ganis estimated. That translates into one expensive player McCourt cannot afford.
 The Yankees hope that Rodriguez, the expensive player they can easily afford, will bring still more fans, who will ideally pay more each year and buy more season tickets, beer and merchandise. If Rodriguez guarantees seven more years of postseason appearances, that will also please Steinbrenner, the unrestrained capitalist.
 ''We're a very aggressive, well-oiled machine,'' Cashman said yesterday during a conference call, ''and we operate under his guidelines and within his culture.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Yanks' Alex Rodriguez 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); SPORTS REVENUES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); MONEY SUPPLY (72%); CASH FLOW (70%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (66%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (61%); WRITERS (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (58%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (88%); ALAN GREENSPAN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



409 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Shares Rise on Banker's Remarks

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The euro strengthened against the dollar yesterday after the chief of the European Central Bank said the euro zone was headed for recovery and gave no signal that interest rates were about to change. 
 European equities edged higher despite fears that Vodafone could enter a bidding war for AT&T Wireless. 
 With markets in the United States closed for the Washington's Birthday holiday, investors focused on testimony by the European Central Bank president, Jean-Claude Trichet, to a European Parliament commission. 
 European blue-chip shares were little changed, depressed by Vodafone, which faced pressure to raise its bid for AT&T Wireless. Vodafone shares declined almost 3 percent. 
 In Tokyo, the Nikkei stock index ended flat as the strong yen put investors off technology shares. The Nikkei closed down 0.08 percent. 
 Toronto stocks snapped a two-session skid, but investors did not read too much into the gains because of the holiday in the United States. 
 Mexican stocks were higher amid optimism that the country's economy was improving. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (87%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (87%); TRENDS (72%); BONDS (72%) Currency; Economic Conditions and Trends; Credit; Interest Rates; Stocks and Bonds; Nikkei Stock Average; Holidays and Special Occasions; Shutdowns (Institutional)

COMPANY: AT&T INC (93%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (93%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union; European Central Bank; European Parliament

TICKER: T (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (93%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (73%) Jean-Claude Trichet

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (74%) ONTARIO, CANADA (74%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%) Europe; Europe; Japan; Canada; Mexico

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



410 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: Political Timing, Outsourced

 BODY:
There's something about George Bush's economic team that seems to compel its members to say true things at inconvenient moments.
 Earlier this month, Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, created a stir when he said the overseas outsourcing of jobs is probably a good thing in the long run. In an election year when the absence of new jobs is vying with the absence of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction to be Topic A, the Democrats gleefully pounced on the Bush administration's supposed enthusiasm for free trade in services. ''It's time to outsource this administration,'' Senator John Edwards said as he scoured Wisconsin for votes. 
 John Kerry, whose own campaign was directing queries to a Canadian call center for a while, accused the administration of conspiring to ship jobs overseas. Tom Daschle and Edward Kennedy proposed ill-advised legislation to make it harder for American companies to hire overseas. Even Dennis Hastert, the Republican who is speaker of the House, criticized Mr. Mankiw.
 It was all rather familiar in a way: Mr. Bush sacked Paul O'Neill, his first Treasury secretary, for political tone-deafness. Last Thursday, the president attempted to pave over the hubbub by volunteering that some people are out of work because of outsourcing.
 The White House has been quick to betray sound free-trade policies to suit its political interests, so there was an element of comeuppance in watching it take a beating. But someone should point out that Mr. Mankiw was right. Call center jobs in India do lift that country's standard of living while freeing up American capital, labor and other resources for more efficient, high-value uses.
 What the country needs from the administration, however, is not occasional cheerleading on the subject of free trade. It needs principled policymaking. On the issues of farm subsidies, steel tariffs and textile quotas, President Bush has been all too eager to run away from liberal trade policies. The Democrats' shameless pandering does not make his own record look better. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); OFFSHORING (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); RELOCATIONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (68%); CALL CENTERS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (56%); DEAFNESS (51%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%) International Trade and World Market; Editorials; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Labor; Relocation of Business

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (72%); TED KENNEDY (58%); TOM DASCHLE (57%) N Gregory (Prof) Mankiw; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



411 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: It May Look Like the Hustings, but It's a 'Policy Event'

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla., Feb. 16 

 BODY:
President Bush on Monday used one of his favorite campaign formats, a ''conversation'' with employees of a small manufacturing company, to take one of his most direct shots yet at Democrats seeking to roll back part of his tax plan.
 Mr. Bush turned a visit to a half-century-old maker of aluminum-encased windows, NuAir Manufacturing, to argue that the tax cuts he championed were not only creating new jobs but also spurring new capital spending. As has become its habit, the White House said the meeting with a few hundred workers at the plant was an ''economic policy event,'' even though the conversation has become indistinguishable from Mr. Bush's campaign appearances. Taxpayers, rather than the Bush campaign, pay for such events, a perk of incumbency that President Bill Clinton often used in his 1996 re-election race. 
 The format of Monday's event is now a staple of Mr. Bush's campaign: The president sits on a small stage on a manufacturing floor, surrounded by a mix of products and workers, and listens pensively as the owner of the business and a few carefully selected workers tell their stories. At NuAir, in an industrial neighborhood near Tampa's airport, Connie Horner, who inherited the family-run business from her father, told Mr. Bush that an upturn in business had enabled her to hire 40 or so workers.
 ''Actually, sir, we attribute that to the economic leadership of your administration,'' Ms. Horner said, as Mr. Bush beamed.
 ''Thank you for the credit,'' the president said. ''I'll take it anytime.
 Some of her workers, many of whom are paid according to the number of windows they install, said later that they suspected the company's rebound had more to do with the Florida housing boom than tax policy. Nonetheless, the workers who attended seemed impressed by Mr. Bush's call for making permanent the child tax credit, the reduction in inheritance taxes and other elements of the two tax-cut bills he has signed.
 Mr. Bush said nothing of the long-term cost of making those cuts permanent. Neither the White House nor many in Congress want to dwell on additions to a deficit projected to hit $500 billion this year. But the workers here seemed unconcerned about deficit numbers.
 ''We're going to have deficits forever anyway,'' said Chad H. Smith, a maintenance worker at the factory. ''My wife is pregnant, so the child credit is really important to us.''
 Mr. Smith said he was a registered Democrat but had already made up his mind to vote for Mr. Bush for reasons having nothing to do with the economy.
 ''I liked the way he handled the war,'' he said. ''I think Kerry would have pussyfooted around,'' he said of the man widely assumed to be Mr. Bush's opponent in November, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts.
 In another signal that the campaign is fast becoming a two-man race, Mr. Kerry's campaign arranged for Senator Bob Graham, a Florida Democrat who was a candidate for the nomination until he dropped out last year, to call reporters and respond to Mr. Bush.
 Mr. Graham, who is retiring from the Senate, said that he was glad Mr. Bush went to the Daytona 500 race on Sunday to talk to ''the fully employed drivers and pit crews'' but said that ''if he had spent more time'' in Daytona ''he might have seen some who are suffering because of his policies.''
 Mr. Graham said that in the Tampa area, 19,000 jobs had been lost since Mr. Bush took office. (It is nearly impossible, with current statistics, to determine how many of those workers have since found other jobs.) And while Mr. Bush talked about making tax cuts permanent and restricting what he called ''junk and frivolous lawsuits'' against doctors, Mr. Graham cited new Labor Department rules that limit the ability of some workers to claim overtime pay. And he called attention to what he called the administration's ''various incentives that positively encourage the outsourcing of jobs overseas.''
 So far, Mr. Bush has been unwilling to mention Mr. Kerry's name in public. Instead, he refers to ''some in Washington'' who would roll back his tax cuts, portraying that as an increase -- rather than the expiration of a temporary cut, which is what Congress passed and what he signed. But if Howard Dean drops out of the race soon, Mr. Bush may abandon lobbing overhead shots, White House aides say, just as Mr. Kerry has been directing his critiques at Mr. Bush.
 The conversations are geared toward small businesses; to go to a large ones these days might be to engage in a discussion of downsizing. 
 Russell Ashley, a window installer who applauded Mr. Bush, noted on his way out that ''there are a lot of people who work here and just didn't come today,'' out of distaste for Mr. Bush, he guessed. But Mr. Ashley predicted that Florida in 2004 would be different from Florida four years ago.
 ''This time, it's hard to see who's going to beat Bush,'' he concluded.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 3, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 17 about a visit by President Bush to a manufacturing plant in Tampa, Fla., to promote his economic policies misstated the number of employees that the plant owner said she was now able to hire because of an upturn that she attributed to the president's policies. She is hiring 10 workers, with the possibility of advertising five to seven other positions. (Forty was her estimate of the jobs she might create if the economy continued to improve.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush yesterday at the NuAir Manufacturing plant in Tampa with its owner, Connie Horner, left, and Noemi Gonzalez, an employee. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ESTATE TAX (77%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (66%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Taxation; Labor; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: NuAir Manufacturing

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (74%) George W (Pres) Bush; Bob (Sen) Graham; John (Sen) Kerry; David E Sanger

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Florida; Tampa (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



412 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: POLITICAL MEMO

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Missing Ingredient in 2004: Attack Ads by Democrats

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
Before the Democratic presidential race was in full swing, the Annenberg Public Policy Center, which tracks political commercials, was worried about having enough staff members to keep up with misleading advertising.
 ''The question was, would we be able to scramble fast enough to cover all the claims,'' said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, director of the center, which is part of the University of Pennsylvania.
 So the center hired an investigative journalist, Brooks Jackson, formerly of CNN, to work on the project. But it turns out Mr. Jackson is like the sheriff of a crime-free town. 
 So far, this primary season has been like none other in a generation, with the fewest and tamest televised attack advertisements in at least three decades, political scholars and strategists said.
 This relatively tranquil environment will surely change soon, as the campaign moves on to the general election. But even as Howard Dean, Vermont's former governor, and Senator John Edwards of North Carolina continue to fight for their political lives in the Wisconsin primary on Tuesday, neither has reverted to the long-honored tradition of ''going negative'' to drag down the front-runner.
 This situation has elated the Democratic Party, whose likely nominee, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, is emerging from a normally bruising process with few scrapes and scratches.
 Far less thrilled are Republicans, who had hoped that the Democrats would have done more of the work for them in roughing up the nominee before the general election. It was the Republicans who lobbed the first full assault on Mr. Kerry, in an Internet advertisement last week.
 But there is also good news for Republicans, President Bush's campaign aides say. 
 ''Nobody really bothered to attack him,'' Terry Holt, the Bush campaign's press secretary, said of Mr. Kerry. ''So he comes out of the primary without having answered the most basic questions regarding his readiness to be president, his clarity of philosophy. Those could be a problem down the line.''
 Mr. Holt said the Republican line of attack would include a definition of Mr. Kerry as ''a liberal Massachusetts senator with a very lightweight record of accomplishment'' -- an assessment Mr. Kerry's campaign says it plans to refute with questions about the economy and national security.
 Terry McAuliffe, the Democratic National Committee chairman, said the party was not the least bit concerned that Mr. Kerry had not faced a trial by television fire. 
 ''I don't think having our potential nominee go through a gantlet of negative ads that the Republicans could use against us later is at all beneficial,'' Mr. McAuliffe said. ''I'd much rather have a unified party with money in the bank.''
 Commenting on the relative peace in the advertising war, he marveled, ''It's a different environment than we've seen in a long time.''
 The last time that presidential historians can remember a political advertising climate being this tame was 1976. Then, said Darrell West, a political science professor at Brown University, few politicians considered it wise to engage in rough and tumble politics so soon after the Watergate scandal. 
 This time around, political analysts say, there is no single reason behind the relative timidity of the candidates' advertisements. 
 Many Democratic strategists say a new election rule requiring candidates to appear in their own commercials has made the production of a harsh attack advertisement the equivalent of holding a live grenade. Others have pointed to a multicandidate field that could offer alternatives to voters driven away from both the man being attacked and the attacker. Then there is a party unity argument: Democrats are so eager to rid the White House of President Bush that they will not tolerate assaults from within the party with such powerful weapons as television commercials.
 Yet similar factors have not affected political advertising before. For instance, party loyalty did not stop John McCain and George W. Bush from attacking each other early in the 2000 primary and caucus season. In one advertisement for Mr. Bush, an announcer asserted that Mr. McCain's campaign was ''crawling with lobbyists.'' Mr. McCain, in turn, appeared in one of his attack spots to say ''Governor Bush's campaign is getting desperate, with a negative ad about me.'' In what was perhaps the lowest blow a Republican could level, he added, ''His ad twists the truth like Clinton.''
 And the crowded primary field did not stop Bill Clinton, who won the nomination, from trading similarly sharp commercial barbs in 1992 with Paul E. Tsongas, Jerry Brown and Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa. In one radio spot for Mr. Clinton, then the governor of Arkansas, an announcer questioned Mr. Brown's commitment to abortion rights (it was quickly taken off of the air). 
 Mr. McAuliffe says that this election cycle is different. Democrats are still so angry about Al Gore's loss to Mr. Bush in 2000 and the Iraq war that they simply will not stand for intramural squabbling, he said.
 The chairman is one of many Democrats who subscribe to the theory that voters in Iowa punished Dr. Dean and Representative Richard A. Gephardt for an exchange of confrontational advertisements shortly before the caucuses there. It was one of only a few such exchanges this campaign season, and it had none of the vitriol of campaigns past. Still, Dr. Dean and Mr. Gephardt were expected to finish in first and second place in Iowa before the advertising war. But it was Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards, neither of whom ran negative advertisements, who finished first and second there.
 ''Voters said, 'We want someone who is electable,' '' Mr. McAuliffe said, ''therefore tell us how you're going to beat George Bush, and if you went negative you paid a price.''
 Several strategists have said in interviews that the Gephardt-Dean exchange brought home the dangers of producing attack advertisements in a crowded field.
 ''As we've already seen, negative advertising in a multicandidate field is fraught with difficulty,'' said Steve McMahon, a media strategist for Dr. Dean. Attacking Mr. Kerry now would be as likely to help Mr. Edwards as to help Dr. Dean, who has staked the future of his campaign on the Wisconsin primary.
 Mr. Edwards's advisers say they are not about to produce attack advertisements against Mr. Kerry when their candidate has so often boasted of his ''positive vision for America.'' 
 And while Democratic strategists acknowledge that there is something to be said for surviving a hard-hitting advertising campaign in the primary season, they say it is better to not face one at all.
 ''In a tough primary the rule is, 'If it doesn't kill you, it will make you stronger for the general,' '' Mr. McMahon said. ''Of course, there's always the risk that it does kill you.
 ''So given the choice, one usually would not prefer a tough primary.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Terry McAuliffe, the Democratic National Committee chairman, said it was better to have a unified party than intramural sniping. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING (93%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); SHERIFFS (75%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); GOVERNORS (53%) Presidential Election of 2004; Political Advertising; Primaries; Presidential Election of 2000

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%) Jim Rutenberg; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Terry Mcauliffe

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



413 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 7; Sports Briefing

LENGTH: 627 words

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:

COLLEGE FOOTBALL
Clarett Has Hired an Agent
 The former Ohio State running back Maurice Clarett has hired an agent, according to his lawyer, ending any possibility he will play college football next season. The lawyer, Alan Milstein, said yesterday that Clarett was working with an agent in preparation for this week's N.F.L. combine in Indianapolis, making him ineligible under N.C.A.A. rules.
 On Feb. 5, United States District Judge Shira A. Scheindlin ruled that an N.F.L. rule barring eligibility to Clarett and other underclassmen from April's draft violated antitrust law. Last week, Scheindlin refused to suspend her ruling.

NOTRE DAME ALUMNI SEND CRITICAL LETTER -- More than 400 Notre Dame alumni signed a letter saying the football program needs to make significant progress next season or ''a coaching change will become necessary.'' The letter is dated Jan. 26 and was sent to Notre Dame's board of trustees. The letter says Notre Dame has made several poor coaching hires and places more importance on making money than winning games.

PRO BASKETBALL
Kings Activate Webber
 Sacramento activated Chris Webber from the injured list yesterday, but he will have to serve an N.B.A. suspension before he can return to the lineup. Webber, a five-time All-Star, hasn't played since tearing cartilage in his left knee during the second round of last season's playoffs. He faces a suspension after pleading guilty last July to charges of lying to a grand jury about his relationship with Ed Martin, a Michigan booster who claimed he loaned $616,000 to Webber.

BASEBALL
Dodgers Name DePodesta
 The Athletics executive Paul DePodesta was named the general manager of the Los Angeles Dodgers yesterday. The hiring was the first made by the new owner, Frank McCourt. DePodesta had been a top assistant to Oakland General Manager Billy Beane since joining the A's in 1998. DePodesta, 31, has an economics degree from Harvard. 

CYCLING
Pantani Autopsy Released
 The 1998 Tour de France winner Marco Pantani died from severe swelling in his brain and heart, according to autopsy results released yesterday. Additional tests were necessary to determine the reason for the swelling, said Dr. Giuseppe Fortuni, who participated in the autopsy in Rimini, Italy. Results of further tests were expected in about two weeks.
 Pantani was found dead in a hotel room Saturday. Bottles of tranquilizers were found in the room, the police said. 

SOCCER
W.U.S.A. Starts Ticket Drive
 The Women's United Soccer Association, which folded last September after three seasons, has started a ticket drive to help finance its planned return in 2005. The league hopes to resume play with eight franchises in the spring of 2005. It will stage several festivals this June. Tony DiCicco, the league's former commissioner, yesterday announced a campaign in which fans could make pledges that would be applied to tickets for the 2005 season by logging on to WUSA.com.

TRACK AND FIELD
Retirement Before Ban
 The United States shot-put champion Kevin Toth retired yesterday, only hours after the United States Olympic Committee announced that he could be suspended for two years for testing positive for the steroid THG and the stimulant modafinil at the national championships last June.
 Toth is one of four athletes who did not pass THG tests at the meet. The others, announced earlier, were Regina Jacobs, John McEwen and Melissa Price. Final decisions on their cases are expected this spring.
 Toth, McEwen and Price are disputing the THG test results through the United States Anti-Doping Agency's arbitration process. Toth's agent, John Nubani, said that even though Toth was retiring, he planned to go through with the appeals process. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (93%); ATHLETES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); LAWYERS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (87%); AUTOPSIES (85%); TICKET SALES (83%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (79%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (79%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); SOCCER (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); BASEBALL (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); FESTIVALS (74%); JUDGES (73%); TOURNAMENTS (72%); DEATHS (66%); GRAND JURY (64%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (55%) Football; Draft and Recruitment (Sports); Agents (Business)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); SACRAMENTO KINGS (55%) Ohio State University

PERSON: Maurice Clarett

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



414 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Soldier's Husband Accused of Death Hoax

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

DATELINE: WATERBURY, Conn., Feb. 16 

 BODY:
The hoax seemed particularly cruel. Edward Valentin, who had been raising three children by himself while his wife was serving in Iraq, told the police that he received an ''official-sounding'' call last Wednesday: his wife had died in a firebombing in Baghdad.
 But a day later, a local newspaper reporter discovered that his wife, Betsy Valentin, a sergeant in the Army Reserve, was still alive. And as the tale played out last week in The Waterbury Republican-American, friends and neighbors wondered who would do such a thing? 
 On Sunday, the police said they had an answer: Mr. Valentin, 43, was charged with telephone harassment, falsely reporting an incident involving a death and making a false statement, the Waterbury newspaper reported on Monday. The false-reporting charge, a felony, can carry a sentence of up to five years in prison.
 A relative had asked the police to go to Mr. Valentin's house on Wednesday, after hearing his distress over the telephone. There, they found him ''banging his head against the wall,'' said Sgt. Scott Stevenson, a Waterbury police detective. 
 A neighbor of Mr. Valentin's, David Rivera, said he came home around 5 p.m. that night and saw five police cars in front of Mr. Valentin's home. Mr. Valentin was wailing. ''He came out of his house, crossed the lawn and said: 'She's dead. She's dead. They killed her,''' Mr. Rivera said Monday at his house.
 The next day, Robyn Adams, a reporter for The Republican-American who had been writing articles about Sergeant Valentin's posting in Iraq, sent her an e-mail message. To her surprise, Sergeant Valentin replied.
 Ms. Adams told her to call home, and then alerted the police, who returned to Mr. Valentin's home just as he was answering the call from his wife, Sergeant Stevenson said. 
 He said Mr. Valentin gave every indication of being shocked by the news that his wife was in fact alive. ''His reaction seemed genuine,'' Sergeant Stevenson said. ''Tears, friends having to hold him up. His kids were bawling. He's bawling real tears, looking up into the sky.''
 Sergeant Stevenson said he figured that the Department of Defense had either made a terrible mistake or that someone had played a prank. 
 On Friday, the detective said, military officials told him that casualty notification officers always contact the families of dead service members in person, never by phone. 
 Sergeant Stevenson said he checked Mr. Valentin's cellphone records and tracked a call he made around 4 p.m. Wednesday to a Waterbury home. A woman who lived there told him that Mr. Valentin, who is unemployed, had been trying to start a relationship with her for almost a year -- about the same length of time his wife had been overseas, Sergeant Stevenson said. But she was not interested in dating a married man, the detective said she had told him.
 Sergeant Stevenson said he then called Mr. Valentin to the police station and asked for the truth. ''He subsequently confessed that he made the entire story up,'' Sergeant Stevenson said, adding that Mr. Valentin said he had fabricated the tale because he missed his wife and thought his ploy would persuade the Army to send his wife home.
 Family members at Mr. Valentin's home on Monday scoffed at the idea that he was interested in another woman. . ''He was going bananas,'' said Diane Valentine, Mr. Valentin's mother, who was taking care of the children. ''He was going berserk.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kimberly Valentin, 13, with a photo of her parents, Betsy and Edward Valentin. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ARMIES (77%); WRITERS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); FELONIES (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%) United States Armament and Defense; Hoaxes

PERSON: DAVID RIVERA (55%) Avi Salzman; Betsy (Sgt) Valentin; Edward Valentin

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%) Iraq; Waterbury (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2004



415 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Jury Awards Ranchers $1.28 Billion From Tyson

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

 BODY:
A federal jury in Alabama yesterday awarded a group of ranchers $1.28 billion in damages after it found that Tyson Fresh Meats, the country's largest beef packer, used illegal cattle contracts to artificially hold down the prices it paid them.
 Hailed by its supporters as a ground-breaking antitrust ruling, the class-action lawsuit was brought several years ago by independent ranchers who argued that Tyson Fresh Meats, a unit of Tyson Foods, used contracts with the biggest feedlots and major ranchers to lower market prices for cattle, effectively undermining competition in the beef industry.
 Lawyers for the plaintiffs said that the jury's decision, if upheld by higher courts, would benefit at least 35,000 smaller cattle ranchers. 
 Tyson said it would seek to have the decision overturned, first by the trial judge and, if that fails, by an appeals court. 
 ''The verdict is a disappointment to our company and thousands of cattle producers who want to maintain the right to market cattle the way they want,'' the company said in a statement. ''We do not expect today's jury decision to materially impair our liquidity or affect operations.'' 
 The company, based in Springdale, Ark., buys roughly a third of the nation's cattle for beef and is also a major poultry processor. It earned $337 million, or 96 cents a share, on sales of $24.5 billion during the fiscal year ended Sept. 27.
 In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, Tyson's shares closed at $16.21, falling slightly over 1 percent.
 During the four-week trial in Montgomery, Ala., the ranchers argued that the consolidation of the industry had helped Tyson win enough control of the market to manipulate prices and help undermine small and independent ranchers. 
 ''There isn't an open, competitive market for us any more,'' said Michael Callicrate, one of the six ranchers who filed the lawsuit in 1996. ''The big packers took that away from us.'' 
 David Domina, the Omaha lawyer who represented the ranchers, said that yesterday's decision meant that the packers' contract agreements were unlawful and that the practice must end.
 ''Packers who use these contracts from now on will do so at their own peril,'' Mr. Domina said.
 The second half of the case to determine the limits on packer behavior in purchasing cattle will be argued before visiting United States District Judge Lyle Strom later this year.
 The judge also indicated that he will issue a scheduling order for two other class-action suits filed by ranchers against two other large packing companies, Excel and Swift. 
 After two decades of consolidation, the four biggest packing companies -- which also includes National -- now slaughter and process more than 80 percent of the cattle in the United States. The rancher's share of each dollar consumers spend on beef, meanwhile, has shrunk from 60 cents to 40 cents, according to the ranchers. 
 While the central issue in the case was how the consolidation of the industry was depressing cattle prices, lawyers for the ranchers said the case was part of a larger attempt to push the government to enforce the 1921 Packers and Stockyards Act that was supposed to ensure against unfair practices in the industry. 
 ''This is an industry fight between the big packers and the independent ranchers,'' said Joe Whatley, of the Birmingham, Ala., firm of Whatley, Drake. ''If we don't stop the kinds of practices Tysons has been engaged in, we're going to lose the small, independent producer.''
 The cattle ranchers originally filed their suit against IBP Inc., which was later bought by Tyson Fresh Meats. 
 The National Cattlemen's Beef Association, the industry's leading trade group, declined to support the ranchers in their suit. Kendal Frazier, the association's vice president for communication, said that his members supported instead a study of meat marketing systems. ''We know there are concerns about changes going on in our industry,'' Mr. Frazier said, ''but we haven't taken a position on the case.''
 Several senior lawmakers from farm states have long battled against consolidation in the meat industry. 
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Finance Committee, helped push legislation through the Senate aimed at increasing competition by preventing meatpackers from owning livestock. But the bill failed in the House.
 He praised the court decision yesterday, saying it was an ''historic day for cattlemen.''
 Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, agreed.
 ''These ranchers and cattle feeders,'' he said, ''took on the packing industry themselves -- and won.'' In a statement, Senator Harkin called on the Agriculture Department and the Justice Department to ''start enforcing the market protections spelled out in the Packers and Stockyards Act.''
 Alisa Harrison, press secretary for Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman, said the department's lawyers were studying the case.
 ''We will review the decision to determine its impact on our programs,'' Ms. Harrison said.
 Neil Harl, agriculture economist at Iowa State University, said that the meat packing industry has had ''consistent and long-running problems with anticompetitive practices.''
 In recent years, Mr. Harl said, the marketing contracts destroyed the old system of open bidding and cash markets. ''The really critical factor is competition,'' Mr. Harl said. ''This ruling should lead to more competition.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (92%); VERDICTS (92%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (91%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); DAMAGES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); MEATS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); JUDGES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (78%); BEEF (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); FOOD MFG (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); POULTRY PROCESSING (73%); POULTRY (73%); APPEALS COURTS (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%) Meat; Cattle; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Antitrust Actions and Laws; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Meat

COMPANY: TYSON FOODS INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Tyson Foods Inc

TICKER: TSN (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (57%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (57%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (57%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (57%)

PERSON: Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (78%) ALABAMA, USA (91%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



416 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Intel Concedes 64-Bit Chips Are Wave of the Future

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 17 

 BODY:
The Intel Corporation, which has long dominated the computer microprocessor market it created in 1971, did an abrupt about-face on Tuesday, announcing that it would follow the lead of its much smaller rival, Advanced Micro Devices, by building 64-bit capability into its most popular chips.
 The strategy reversal is a setback for Intel, the world's largest chip maker, which had been trying to convince computer users that more powerful 64-bit processing aimed at heavy-duty corporate and scientific computing should be handled exclusively by its ambitious, but incompatible, Itanium processors. 
 Until today, Intel, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif., had publicly sought to continue with 32-bit operations for personal computer and small server applications relying on its Pentium and Xeon processor lines.
 That approach, however, was thwarted by A.M.D., the microprocessor industry's plucky second fiddle. A.M.D., from Sunnyvale, Calif., took a different tack, gambling on creating a new line of chips that included special 64-bit extensions, making it possible to run traditional 32-bit Intel-compatible programs as well as newer 64-bit software. 
 That gamble has now paid off with the announcement today from Craig Barrett, Intel's chief executive, that his company plans to add 64-bit capabilities to its Xeon server processors during the next quarter and incorporate similar 64-bit processing features in its next-generation workstation processors before the end of the year.
 The Intel announcement gives programmers and PC makers an incentive to commit to 64-bit chips immediately, putting A.M.D. in the lead until Intel is able to get its 64-bit chip to market.
 Not long ago, 64-bit computing -- which allows data to move through a computer far more quickly and makes it possible for the microprocessor to handle much greater amounts of memory at any one time -- was thought of as useful only for the most esoteric scientific and engineering applications. But with consumer PC tasks like video editing and even game playing soaking up immense amounts of computing effort, that view has changed. 
 Intel is not about to be unseated by A.M.D. anytime soon, industry analysts said, but its failure to foresee the potential market demand for compatible 64-bit processors could hurt it in one of the most profitable segments of its business.
 ''This is a very high-stakes game,'' said Richard Doherty, president of Envisioneering, a computer industry consulting firm in Seaford, N.Y. ''The profit margins in the 64-bit computing world are very much higher than the rest of the industry.''
 A.M.D.'s executives hailed Intel's about-face as proof that its approach was correct. They said they had no intention of standing still while Intel races to catch up. 
 ''What this suggests to A.M.D. is that Intel is now following our leadership,'' said Ben Williams, A.M.D.'s director of the server and workstation business segment. On Tuesday, A.M.D. brought out a new version of its Opteron 64-bit microprocessor family that will consume far less power than its current models and is aimed at making its line more useful for corporate servers.
 Both companies' chips will support a version of Microsoft's Windows operating system that was originally designed for the A.M.D. 64-bit Opteron processors.
 Microsoft, which began shipping a trial 64-bit version of its Windows XP and Windows Server operating system in December, said that it planned to release final software during the second half of this year.
 Sun Microsystems and I.B.M. have already announced Opteron systems and industry analysts suggested that Hewlett-Packard, which helped develop Intel's Itanium processor, also has an Opteron-based computer in the works.
 Those moves have increased the pressure on Intel to make the shift and to endorse 64-bit computing that is compatible with its 32-bit designs. 
 ''This has to be the worst kept secret in San Francisco,'' Mr. Barrett said, acknowledging that the computer industry has been expecting Intel to shift course for the last year.
 But Mr. Barrett gave no indication that Intel was planning to give up on its multi-billion-dollar commitment to the more powerful Itanium -- a chip that has set speed records but so far has sold only in limited numbers.
 ''I prefer to think of them as two different spaces entirely,'' Mr. Barrett said during a question-and-answer session after delivering a speech to open the company's annual Intel Developer Forum, held here through Thursday.
 He cited the company's commitment to ensure that Itanium remains more than twice as fast as its Xeon microprocessors and said there were features in the Itanium chip that would continue to distinguish it from less-expensive microprocessors.
 Intel now finds itself in an odd position. During the mid-1980's to mid-1990's it fought a bitter war against makers of more powerful microprocessor chips based on a design known as reduced instruction set computing, or RISC.
 Although RISC chips were faster than Intel's lower-cost desktop processors, they were overwhelmed by Intel's sheer volume of production and far larger economies of scale.
 Today, Intel's Itanium processor is in a similar position to the old RISC chips: the computing market has been trained by Intel to prefer high- volume and low-cost chips, which are capable of competing with higher- performance devices by being clustered in arrays of cheap processors.
 During his talk on Tuesday, Mr. Barrett said that the company sold 110,000 Itanium processors last year and expected to double that amount in 2005. 
 After the presentation, Mike Pfister, vice president and general manager of Intel's Enterprise Platform division, argued that the Itanium chip would survive by focusing on specialized markets.
 ''Big databases are Itanium forever,'' he said.
 Whatever the merits of that argument, Intel was forced in the end to give up on 64-bit compatibility because of the pressures from more ordinary users.
 Apple Computer has already begun offering 64-bit computing for certain applications and on Tuesday Microsoft's executives said that game developers were particularly interested in 64-bit processors.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 19, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about Intel's plans to build 64-bit capability into its most popular computer chips misspelled the surname of the vice president and general manager of Intel's Enterprise Platform division. He is Mike Fister, not Pfister.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Intel's chief, Craig Barrett, before making his keynote address at the Intel Developer Forum in San Francisco yesterday. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROPROCESSORS (92%); COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); NETWORK SERVERS (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); COMPUTATIONAL RESEARCH (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (69%) Computers and the Internet; Computer Chips; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (98%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Intel Corp; Advanced Micro Devices

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%); AMD (NYSE) (91%); AMD (FRA) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%)

PERSON: John Markoff; Craig R Barrett

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



417 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: Fed Reports Offer Signs of a Revival in Industry

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Manufacturing showed signs of revival yesterday, as a report from the Federal Reserve Board disclosed gains in January and early February.
 The Federal Reserve said that its gauge of activity at American factories, mines and utilities rose a sharp 0.8 percent in January, led by a weather-related gain in utilities use. 
 Factory output -- more than four-fifths of total production -- rose 0.3 percent, its fifth consecutive monthly rise.
 The report may help ease worries over the state of American manufacturing, which has yet to recover from the 2001 recession. 
 Manufacturers have trimmed payrolls for 42 consecutive months, with about 2.8 million factory jobs lost since President Bush took office in January 2001.
 January's cold weather helped bolster overall industrial production. 
 Utility output climbed a hefty 5.2 percent while natural gas production increased 7 percent, its biggest jump since February 2003, according to the Fed.
 Still, the gain in manufacturing accelerated the pace of factory operation in January. The capacity use rate rose to 74.6 percent in January, its highest reading since August 2001.
 December's overall production and capacity use figures were revised downward somewhat in Tuesday's report. 
 Output was revised to a flat reading from the initially reported 0.1 percent advance while capacity use was reported at 75.6 percent, down from the original reading of 75.8 percent.
 ''The gains within the manufacturing sector were fairly broad based though moderate,'' said Stephen Stanley, an economist with RBS Greenwich Capital Markets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPACITY UTILIZATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION STATISTICS (72%); WEATHER (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%) United States Economy; Production; Factories and Industrial Plants

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



418 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Economic Recovery Begins to Trickle Into Mexico

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Feb. 17 

 BODY:
The recent news that the American auto parts maker Tower Automotive would shut a plant in Milwaukee and move production, and 600 jobs, to a joint venture partner in northern Mexico was greeted here as a sign that after three years in the doldrums, Mexico was finally feeling the effects of the recovery in the United States.
 Last year, as American growth picked up, Mexico languished. Analysts puzzled over why the economy, which is tightly tied to the United States through exports and investment, failed to follow in tandem. 
 Gross domestic product rose 1.3 percent in 2003 and 2 percent in the fourth quarter compared with the period a year earlier, the finance ministry reported on Tuesday. The government is forecasting growth of 3.1 percent this year, though many private analysts expect it could be higher. 
 Seeking an explanation for the economy's disappointing performance, many business leaders blamed China. They argued that its low wages, lax regulation and government incentives were siphoning off Mexico's much-needed manufacturing jobs. Mexico's role as the chief low-wage producer for the American market appeared to be in jeopardy. 
 But a series of investment announcements in recent weeks suggested that some version of that role was still secure.
 ''Someone has forgotten to share with foreign manufacturers the conventional wisdom that Mexico has lost its competitive edge,'' wrote Gray Newman, Latin America economist for Morgan Stanley in New York, in a recent report. He found that last year, foreign investment in manufacturing increased in Mexico, even though overall foreign direct investment declined. 
 ''The link is still strong enough between Mexico and the United States that Mexico moves with the United States,'' he said in an interview.
 The reason Mexico's recovery has lagged for so long is that Mexico's economy follows American manufacturing, which did not begin to recover until the fall, analysts say. While the United States has had a relentless decline in manufacturing jobs -- a loss of 2.8 million jobs since August 2000 -- it is not clear how Mexico's employment picture will fare in this recovery. 
 Analysts say that even with the new manufacturing momentum, it will still be several months before Mexico can begin to see a rebound in employment.
 One gauge is the number of jobs in the maquiladora sector, which assembles duty-free products for export. Maquiladoras have lost more than 250,000 jobs since the peak in October 2000. 
 ''The key to the manufacturing rebound beginning to signal a broader recovery in the Mexican economy will be when we begin to see a rebound in manufacturing employment,'' a Merrill Lynch report said Tuesday. ''Given that we are just in the beginning stages of the manufacturing cycle, we believe we are still months away from that point.'' 
 Despite the uncertain job outlook, other indicators of manufacturing health have emerged in the last week. In December, industrial production rose 2.4 percent and manufacturing exports rose 10.2 percent over the period a year earlier. Some 90 percent of Mexico's exports go to the United States. Optimism over the economy lifted the stock market index above 10,100 on Tuesday, a record. 
 The newest round of investments suggests that Mexico's edge is still strong in areas like autos and bulky electronics. 
 Tower Automotive announced last week that it would move production of the frame assembly for the Dodge Ram light truck to Metalsa, a Monterrey company in which Tower holds a 40 percent stake. 
 ''The Milwaukee plant wasn't competitive,'' said Leopoldo Cedillo, commercial vice president for Metalsa. So when DaimlerChrysler redesigned the light-duty truck, it saw a way to save costs, Mr. Cedillo said. ''It generates savings in labor costs.''
 Metalsa expects to hire 600 workers to add to the 2,500 already at its plant. 
 The Tower announcement follows several other investments in the auto industry that show that Mexico will benefit as the North American industry strengthens. The most significant came in October when the Ford Motor Company said that it would spend $1 billion to expand its Hermosillo plant in the northern state of Sonora to make its Futura sedan. 
 More modest investments have continued. Last month, Grupo Industrial Saltillo, an auto parts supplier, said that it would invest $20 million with a Norwegian partner, Norsk Hydro, to build a plant to make aluminum motor heads. 
 Analysts say the investment in the auto industry reflects the fact that Mexico can still benefit from being next door to the United States.
 ''As Mexico recognizes that they cannot just compete on unit labor rates, they are focusing on those areas where there is not only a labor advantage, but also a transportation advantage,'' said Carlos Lukac, managing director for Bain & Company Mexico, a consultant group. Mexico, he said, would continue to make bulky items like car seats and big-screen televisions that need to arrive at a precise time at an American factory or retailer. 
 Not all the new investments are in the auto industry. The copper producer, Phelps Dodge, is moving production of magnet wire -- a component used in products like power tools, appliances and cars -- from a plant it is closing in El Paso, to its Monterrey plant.
 ''Our customers are companies who manufacture items like electric motors,'' said Ken Vaughn, a spokesman for Phelps Dodge in Phoenix. ''Those customers have been moving to places like Mexico and China.''
 Electrolux, a Swedish company, announced last month that it would shut its refrigerator plant in Greenville, Mich., and move to Mexico. 
 LG Electronics, which is based in South Korea, makes televisions, refrigerators and monitors at three plants in northern Mexico and spent $160 million to expand those plants last year. It expects to spend an additional $30 million this year.
 Medtronics, a medical equipment maker, is moving jobs from its vascular division in Santa Rosa, Calif., to a plant it owns in Tijuana. ''The proximity alone is good for us,'' a spokesman, Rob Clark, said. ''Cost is a factor as well. The cost of operating and manufacturing there is less than manufacturing here in California.'' 
 Despite the positive news, investors warn that Mexico needs to do more to attract business.
 ''Other countries are advancing on their structural reforms much more so than Mexico is,'' said James Callahan, president of the American Chamber of Commerce of Mexico and managing director of BankBoston Mexico. ''Mexico could be much more competitive and attracting more foreign direct investment with more competitive energy policies, improvements in the legal system, judicial transparency, and tax reform.
 ''We have a certain level of frustration. Most of our member companies operate on a global basis. We've seen what works in other countries. We believe that Mexico's potential is to grow on average 6 percent per annum with the proper structural reforms.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); JOINT VENTURES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (73%) Gross Domestic Product; Labor; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: Elisabeth Malkin

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (78%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (73%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Mexico; China; Mexico

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



419 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: Downtown Philadelphia Roiled by Proposed Subsidy

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
Downtown landlords here are in an uproar over a measure that would allow a public subsidy for a proposed new 60-story headquarters building for Comcast, the giant cable company that wants to take over the Walt Disney Company. 
 The developer, Liberty Property Trust, is seeking to qualify the building site -- in the heart of downtown, three blocks from Comcast's current offices -- for a generous 1998 state tax abatement program that was originally intended to improve blighted neighborhoods.
 More than two dozen landlords in Center City, as downtown is known, have banded together to try to prevent designation of the site at 17th Street and John F. Kennedy Boulevard as a Keystone Opportunity Improvement Zone. Extending the designation to the core of the central business district, a move supported by Gov. Edward G. Rendell, would mean that tenants of the building would be exempt from all state and local taxes, except for the city's wage tax, for 15 years. 
 Comcast, which has 450,000 square feet of space at Center Square, a 36-story building at 15th and Market Streets, has a few years remaining on its lease so it is under no pressure to make a real estate decision, said Tim Fitzpatrick, a company spokesman. But Comcast officials do not deny that they began talking to Liberty last year. 
 As a result of those discussions, the proposed building, designed by the architect Robert A.M. Stern, has grown by eight stories, said John S. Gattuso, a senior vice president at Liberty Property. The 1.3-million-square-foot tower of limestone and aluminum would be Philadelphia's tallest and the first new skyscraper in Center City since 1991. 
 The bill to extend the designation is subject to the approval of the State Legislature, the mayor and the City Council.
 The Liberty site, 1 Pennsylvania Plaza, is not the only project to prompt a citywide discussion of the Keystone program. Two Center City law firms, Dechert and Woodcock Washburn, recently signed leases to occupy about half of the 727,000 square feet of space at Cira Center, a 28-story building being developed by Brandywine Realty Trust of Plymouth Meeting, Pa. It sits across the Schuylkill River from Center City and next to the 30th Street train station on land leased from Amtrak that was designated a Keystone site last year.
 In this case, the focus is not on the building's location, since the area has not previously attracted development, but rather on the fact that the law firm partners will receive a windfall by moving. Their shares of the firm's profits -- amounting to hundreds of thousands of dollars a year -- will be exempt from state and local taxes.
 Even with the designation, the Cira Center has been a tough sell, according to Gerard H. Sweeney, Brandywine's chief executive. Brandywine has talked to 3,300 companies and found deep resistance to relocating to a neighborhood that lacks shops and upscale restaurants. In Mr. Sweeney's view, Brandywine is making a long-term investment and helping to create a link between the business district and the western suburbs. Giving a Center City site without the same risk the same tax advantage ''runs counter to the legislative intent'' of the Keystone program, he said.
 The intense debate over the Keystone incentives has also led to renewed clamor across the city for reform of the local tax laws -- particularly the vastly unpopular wage tax -- which many say have prompted an exodus to the suburbs or other states. A recent survey by The Philadelphia Business Journal found that businesses here pay significantly more in state and local taxes than they would in other major cities. If any more businesses are lost, the city will be in severe trouble, said Les J. Crammer, a senior managing director of Julien J. Studley, a real estate company that represents tenants. ''The city doesn't have a choice,'' he said. ''They have to stop the bleeding.''
 The downtown landlords' group, led by David J. Campoli, the regional manager of Comcast's landlord, HRPT Properties Trust of Newton, Mass., says that awarding the Keystone designation to 1 Pennsylvania Plaza would put other property owners at a competitive disadvantage. Liberty could charge above-market rents knowing that the additional cost would be offset by tenants' tax savings, they say. The state, Mr. Campoli said, would be creating more vacancies in ''a downtown market that doesn't need any more distress than it already has.'' 
 And the timing, opponents of the designation say, could not be worse. The current Center City vacancy rate of 12.8 percent for top-grade buildings is expected to climb significantly because most of the sleek skyscrapers that line the major east-west streets were built from the late 1980's to the early 90's, and many of the 15-year leases that were signed then will be coming up for renewal soon. Some buildings are facing vacancies of 50 percent or more, Mr. Campoli said.
 William S. Elder, a senior vice president of the Shorenstein Company of San Francisco, which bought the 58-story 2 Liberty Place at 16th and Market Streets in June 2002, said the building would be 50 to 60 percent empty by 2006 because of corporate downsizing. ''You have to look at the playing field,'' Mr. Elder said. ''When we made this investment, there was no such thing as a Keystone zone in the middle of Center City. We had no idea we would be competing with that.''
 Mr. Gattuso, however, said that these investors had gambled on the absence of new Center City development so they could raise rents when their leases expired. ''There is a role for that kind of investment strategy,'' Mr. Gattuso said, ''but don't try to pass that off as public policy.'' He said the Keystone designation was justified because Comcast has said it will add at least 700 people to its current Philadelphia work force of 1,100, resulting in a gain for the city, even with the tax abatements. 
 Comcast has expressed interest in occupying about 45 percent of the building, Mr. Gattuso said. Liberty has also promised to spend $30 million on rebuilding the nearby commuter railway station's entrance and concourses, he said.
 In a telephone interview yesterday, Governor Rendell defended the prospective tax break, saying that a new Comcast headquarters ''could do for Philadelphia what Coca-Cola did for Atlanta'' decades ago by serving as a magnet for other corporate headquarters. He said that tax cuts alone would not be enough to lure them. ''The only way we'll grow is with incentives,'' he said. Asked about the opposition, he said: ''I've never known progress that doesn't step on somebody's toes.''
 Mr. Campoli and other critics of 1 Pennsylvania Plaza suggest that the proposed designation is rooted in what they say are close ties among the Rendell administration and Liberty and Comcast. David L. Cohen, a Comcast executive vice president, was Mr. Rendell's chief of staff when he was mayor, and William P. Hankowsky, Liberty's chief executive, was director of Philadelphia's development agency. 
 ''We're dealing with some strong political allies and forces,'' Mr. Campoli said. ''For us as outside investors, that's been problematic for years.'' But Mr. Rendell said those relationships were not a factor. ''Every building owner in town was a contributor to me,'' he said.
 In a report issued last month, the Center City District, a business improvement district whose members consist of downtown property owners, said that if both Cira Center and 1 Pennsylvania Plaza were occupied by companies that relocate from other Center City buildings, the city could lose as much as $153 million by 2018. The city would benefit only in the ''unlikely scenario'' that the projects fill their remaining space with corporations that are not currently here, the report said.
 A report by the Econsult Corporation, a consulting company hired by Liberty, said, by contrast, that awarding a Keystone designation to 1 Pennsylvania Plaza could generate as much as $27 million for the city, including indirect tax revenues. The report also argues that there is a demand for new buildings with up-to-date amenities that the older buildings cannot match. 
 But other real estate specialists take issue with the notion that the existing inventory is reaching the end of its life cycle.
 Georgette Chapman Poindexter, a professor of real estate at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, said that if there was a demand for newly built office space, ''then why do you need this humongous subsidy?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The site of the proposed 1 Pennsylvania Plaza office building on John F. Kennedy Boulevard in the Center City section of Philadelphia. (Photo by Sal DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times)Map of Philadelphia highlighting the location of both the present and proposed Comcast headquarters office.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); MAYORS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (66%); LAWYERS (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Finances; Law and Legislation; Tax Credits; Tax Exemptions; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties

COMPANY: COMCAST CORP (93%); WALT DISNEY CO (72%); LIBERTY PROPERTY TRUST (58%); BRANDYWINE REALTY TRUST (52%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Comcast Corp; Liberty Property Trust

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (93%); CCV (NYSE) (93%); DIS (NYSE) (72%); LRY (NYSE) (58%); BDN (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (72%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (72%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (72%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (72%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (58%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (51%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (51%)

PERSON: ED RENDELL (53%) Terry Pristin

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Philadelphia (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



420 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: A Trade Battle Is Brewing Over U.S. Antidumping Fees

BYLINE: By PAUL MELLER

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Feb. 17 

 BODY:
The European Union took its objections about the way the United States calculates antidumping duties to the World Trade Organization on Tuesday.
 The United States moved quickly to block a ruling, but its action can only delay the issue by a month, when the European Union will probably raise its objection again, the Dow Jones Newswires said.
 The European Commission said in a statement that the United States overcharged when it set antidumping duties on 31 different products imported from the European Union, including pasta, ball bearings, chemicals and hot-rolled steel. 
 It has asked the W.T.O. to set up a panel to examine the legality of the United States policy, which it says affects hundreds of millions of dollars in imports from Europe.
 The practice, called zeroing, overestimates the amount of antidumping fines to be paid by importers, the European Union contends. Dumping fines are generally calculated by subtracting the price a company sets for its products in a foreign market from the price it charges at home each month.
 In zeroing, however, the calculation excludes months when the imports were sold above the home price; the higher price differential is simply counted as zero. The lower prices are then tallied and used to calculate the antidumping duties.
 The commission said that without zeroing, the dumping margin in most of the 31 cases under review for dumping would be negligible or vanish, and no duties would be due. Pasta producers from Italy, for example, have been selling their spaghetti cheaper stateside than at home. Antidumping duties are levied on the pasta companies by the United States to deter the practice, because it drives down prices for local producers.
 ''The U.S. zeroing practice is negatively affecting our exporters to the U.S. and the problem will only grow further if zeroing is allowed to continue,'' Pascal Lamy, the European trade commissioner, said in a statement.
 The European Union was found guilty of zeroing when setting antidumping duties on imports of Indian bed linen in 2001. The Union scrapped all antidumping duties on imported Indian bed linen that year.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Pascal Lamy, the European trade commissioner, criticized U.S. fees. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIDUMPING LAWS (95%); EUROPEAN UNION (92%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PASTA & NOODLE MFG (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); CHEMICALS (76%); PASTA & NOODLES (76%); EXPORT PRICES (73%); HOME PRICES (68%) International Trade and World Market; Dumping (Trade Term); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: DOW JONES NEWSWIRES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (57%) European Union; World Trade Organization

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (78%) Paul Meller; Pascal Lamy

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); BELGIUM (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



421 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Quarter's Growth Rose in Japan To 7%, Buoyed by China Trade

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TOKYO, Wednesday, Feb. 18 

 BODY:
The Japanese economy grew at a robust 7 percent annual pace in the fourth quarter of 2003, the Cabinet Office reported. After weakness early in the year, the strong showing last quarter by Japan, the world's second-largest economy, brought growth for all of 2003 to 2.7 percent. 
 True to form, exports were the engine behind the growth, pulling Japan well out of recession. But this time, the crucial demand for Japanese goods came not from the United States, but from China. 
 ''We reckon that 80 percent of the growth in exports in the last 12 months is due to Chinese demand,'' said Jesper Koll, chief Japan economist for Merrill Lynch. ''There is absolutely no question that here in Japan, all eyes are on China. If China slows down, Japan will crash.''
 Unlike past recoveries, which tended to be narrowly dependent on increased exports of cars to North America, current growth is more widely based as Chinese demand puts idle capacity in Japanese steel mills and semiconductor plants back to work.
 Sales of construction and mining equipment to China by Komatsu jumped 47 percent last quarter, to $150 million. In 2005, the company said, it expects to sell $1 billion to China, more than double the 2002 level. And Chinese demand has increased steel prices, turning losses into profit at Nippon Steel. Last year, China was the ultimate destination for about 40 percent of the company's foreign sales.
 ''The Japanese economy has always been led by plant-and-equipment investments of export-oriented manufactures,'' said Eisuke Sakakibara, professor of international economics at Keio University. Noting exports last year of $518 billion, he said, ''We are back on that path.''
 In December, unemployment fell to 4.9 percent, the lowest level in two and a half years. Last month, corporate bankruptcies continued a yearlong decline, running 16 percent below the period a year earlier. Bankruptcy debt was down 63 percent. 
 Japan's current account surplus, a broad measure of trade, increased 11.6 percent last year, to a record $150 billion -- aided by a 33 percent rise in exports to China and a 20 percent fall in Japanese travel overseas.
 Some growth can be traced to a rebound in consumer electronics. In spite of reports that Japan has lost its competitive edge to lower-wage Asian countries, audiovisual equipment exports rose 68 percent in December from those a year earlier. ''A lot of people everywhere are saying this is a genuine upturn,'' said Richard Dyck, president of TSC Japan, an electronic components company. ''There is a lot of optimism in the electronics industry.''
 To keep exports affordable to Americans and Europeans, Japan's government has intervened on a large scale in the currency markets, buying $172 billion of foreign currency last year to keep the strong yen from strengthening even further. Last month, it bought $67 billion more.
 According to the United States Treasury Department, Japanese investors accounted for about half the purchases of Treasury bonds in 2003, with net purchases about four times that the previous year.
 The currency interventions have limited the dollar's drop against the yen to 12 percent in the last year. Even so, the yen is trading here at a rate around 105 to the dollar, a three-and-a-half-year high. 
 Beyond the yen, other threats loom for Japan's economy. While many big companies have restructured to regain profitability, the government has done little to cut spending or to close the budget deficit, now around 8 percent of the gross domestic product. By comparison, the American deficit was recently projected at $521 billion in an economy of more than $11 trillion, or 4.7 percent.
 With a population-age profile similar to that of Florida, the Japanese government is paying more for social security than it obtains in contributions and taxes. At the other end of the age range, unemployment among young men is 10 percent. To meet obligations, the government has allowed the ratio of debt to the gross domestic product to soar to 163 percent, the highest among advanced economies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ELECTRONICS (87%); TRENDS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (72%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (67%); ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MFG (67%); CURRENCIES (66%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (64%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); SEMICONDUCTORS (52%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Recession and Depression; International Trade and World Market; Records and Achievements; Labor; Unemployment; Bankruptcies

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (99%); CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%) Japan; China; Japan

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



422 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Ohio Charities to Promote Economic Growth

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
A group of 28 foundations said Tuesday that it would work to promote economic development in nine counties of northeastern Ohio, a region hit hard by the loss of manufacturing jobs to foreign countries.
The foundations, which include the Community Foundation of Greater Lorain County and the George Gund Foundation, have pledged $22 million to the Fund for Our Economic Future, which the 28 charities will control. Their goal is to accumulate $30 million.
 The Fund for Our Economic Future will support projects and organizations intended to help the regional economy, which has lost jobs at a higher rate than the national average as its manufacturing and heavy industry sectors have declined.
 ''Historically, our economy has been focused around metalworking, polymers and autos, all industries that have experienced slow to declining growth rates,'' said Brad Whitehead, senior fellow for economic development at the Cleveland Foundation, which is putting $10.3 million into the fund. ''We're losing ground even when the economic cycle is on the upswing.''
 Among 200 American cities ranked in terms of economic vitality by the Milken Institute, an economic research organization based in Santa Monica, Calif., Akron was 180th, Cleveland 194th and Youngstown 199th. Canton ranked highest in the region at 149th.
 Government has traditionally played the largest role in economic development, but public resources are strained. In addition, local governments in northeastern Ohio are not used to working together to promote the area, foundation heads there say. ''We've been individual cities, competitive with each other, very parochial, and that doesn't sell in the 21st century,'' said Robert W. Briggs, executive director and a trustee of the $170 million G.A.R. Foundation, which will put in $1.5 million over the next three years. 
 Foundations are typically wary of taking on responsibilities that have historically fallen to governments. About 4 percent, or $666.2 million, of the grants made in 2002 by 1,005 foundations went to community improvement and economic development, according to a survey by the Foundation Center, a research organization based in New York City.
 ''Because a lot of government involvement in economic development has political aspects to it, programs come and go,'' said Brian Frederick, president and chief executive of the Community Foundation of Greater Lorain County, which is putting in $300,000 over three years. ''We can be patient for the 12, 15 or 20 years it make take to see real changes.''
 The fund plans to make its first grants in April. Its money will go to nonprofit institutions, including local colleges and organizations that offer counseling about changing jobs and starting and maintaining businesses.
 David Abbott, executive director of the George Gund Foundation, which is contributing $3 million, said, ''We're hoping we can exercise a more muscular form of philanthropy that demands that other sectors work with us to advance the agenda more aggressively.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TRENDS (75%); RELOCATIONS (72%); RANKINGS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%) Foundations; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Relocation of Business; Philanthropy

PERSON: Stephanie Strom

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Ohio

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



423 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Dutch House Votes to Expel Many Denied Political Shelter

BYLINE: By MARLISE SIMONS

DATELINE: THE HAGUE, Feb. 17 

 BODY:
The Dutch lower house of Parliament voted on Tuesday to expel up to 26,000 failed asylum-seekers over the next three years, a move that could give this country one of Europe's most restrictive policies. 
 The plan, which now goes to the upper house, where it is expected to pass, underscores the growing anti-immigrant feeling in a country that has long been proud of its open, liberal society.
 The 83-to-57 vote came after the center-right coalition government rejected demands by opposition parties for greater lenience.
 Immigration Minister Rita Verdonk argued that the plan approved Tuesday was humane because it would not break up families, would provide airline tickets and money to returnees, and would still grant amnesty to about 2,300 people facing severe difficulties. 
 But in recent days, church and human rights groups have held street protests, calling the plan cruel because many of those on the deportation list have lived here for five years or more and had children while awaiting residence papers. Refugee groups have called for hunger strikes and some churches and families have said they will shelter people facing expulsion. 
 The bill applies to people who arrived in the Netherlands before April 2001. The largest numbers are from the former Yugoslavia, Iraq and Afghanistan.
 Proponents say that many of those people can now safely return home, that not all are political refugees, and include ''benefit shoppers.'' But critics disagree, including the New York-based Human Rights Watch, which said in a letter to the immigration minister that ''sending people back to places where they could be in danger not only jeopardized their safety, but also was illegal.''
 Close to 700 people on the deportation list are under investigation for war crimes. The government created a special unit to investigate war crimes suspects among asylum-seekers after fellow refugees implicated them. But a spokesman at the Justice Ministry said investigations had made little headway because cooperation from the countries of origin and the search for witnesses willing to testify had been difficult. 
 The deportation plan appears harsher than asylum policies elsewhere in Western Europe, where countries including Austria, Britain, Denmark, Germany and Sweden have recently tightened the rules. 
 In the Netherlands, the move has not come as a surprise. This is already Europe's most densely populated country, and large flows of immigrants over the last 25 years have brought such rapid demographic change that, the government predicts, the major Dutch cities will have Muslim majorities by 2010. Half the population of Rotterdam is already of foreign descent. 
 Furthermore, the Netherlands, like much of Western Europe, is experiencing economic stagnation, rising unemployment and severe government budget cuts that have curbed welfare benefits, compounding the resistance to immigrants.
 Since 2002, the Dutch have voted in two elections for parties pledging to slow down immigration. The depth of anti-immigrant feelings became a subject for public debate two years ago when the populist right-wing leader Pim Fortuyn said the Netherlands was ''full up.''
 Mr. Fortuyn said the influx of conservative Muslim clerics, attending to Muslims who are now close to 6 percent of the population, threatened to undermine Dutch values like equal rights for women and gays.
 Mr. Fortuyn's proposals were milder than the current plan because he argued that asylum-seekers and immigrants already here should be allowed to stay, but that new immigration should stop until those present were better integrated.
 Mr. Fortuyn was shot dead in May 2002, but by then he had turned issues like immigrants and asylum-seekers from a taboo subject into one that is now near the top of the agenda of most mainstream Dutch parties.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); REFUGEES (90%); RELIGION (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); DEPORTATION (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); FAMILY (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (86%); POLITICS (78%); AMNESTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); CHILDREN (74%); WAR CRIMES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); WITNESSES (68%); POPULATION DENSITY (64%); BUDGET CUTS (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); TRAVEL TICKETS (54%) Asylum (Political); Immigration and Refugees; Law and Legislation; Islam; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (54%)

PERSON: Marlise Simons

GEOGRAPHIC: ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) NETHERLANDS (96%); EUROPE (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (92%); AUSTRIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); SERBIA (79%); DENMARK (79%); SWEDEN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Netherlands; Yugoslavia; Iraq; Afghanistan; Netherlands

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



424 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: 2 Bush Officials Cautious On Job-Growth Forecast

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: RICHLAND, Wash., Feb. 17 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary John W. Snow distanced himself on Tuesday from the Bush administration's official prediction that the nation would add 2.6 million jobs by the end of this year.
 That prediction, which is far more optimistic than that of many private sector forecasters, was part of the annual economic report released last week by the White House Council of Economic Advisers and was immediately echoed by Mr. Bush himself. 
 But on a tour through Washington and Oregon to promote the president's economic agenda, Mr. Snow and Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans both declined to endorse the White House prediction and cautioned that it was based on economic assumptions that have an inherent margin of error.
''I think we are going to create a lot of jobs; how many I don't know,'' Mr. Snow said, adding that ''macroeconomic models are based on a lot of assumptions'' and are ''not without a range of error.''
 Unemployment and the nation's surprisingly sluggish pace of job creation has become a significant political weakness for Mr. Bush, who is on track to be the first president since Herbert Hoover to end his first term with fewer jobs than when he started.
 The nation has lost about 2.5 million jobs in the last three years, and job loss has been acute in the Pacific Northwest. Unemployment is 6.8 percent in Washington and 7.2 percent in Oregon, compared with 5.6 percent nationwide. The aerospace industry has laid off tens of thousands of workers, as have technology companies tied to the collapse of the stock market bubble and older manufacturers.
 Mr. Snow and other top administration officials are on a two-day tour through both states this week, traveling in a luxurious bus to promote the beneficial effects of Mr. Bush's tax-cutting plans and spread the word that the economy is humming once again.
 But while economic growth has been very strong for the last six months, the pace of job creation has been much slower than in previous economic recoveries. After losing about 2.8 million jobs since late 2001, the nation started to add jobs only last fall and has been adding them at the rate of about 100,000 a month.
 Most economists say the nation needs to add about 125,000 jobs a month just to keep up with increases in the number of workers, and that it needs to add more than 200,000 a month over a sustained period to significantly reduce the unemployment rate below its current 5.6 percent.
To create 2.6 million jobs by the end of this year, the nation would have to add more than 230,000 positions each month from now until January. But many if not most economic forecasters expect a more modest upswing, largely because the nation's productivity has been climbing so rapidly that companies have been meeting higher demand without adding workers.
 Mr. Snow and Mr. Evans are traveling around the Northwest in a bus that has been used by touring performers like Bon Jovi and Styx. Secretary of Labor Elaine L. Chao and Hector V. Barreto, head of the Small Business Administration, are on the tour as well to promote the administration's job-training programs and assistance for new companies.
 The group announced new grants at a center in Spokane that acts as an incubator for high-technology start-ups, then held a roundtable meeting with women business owners in Richland.
 Mr. Snow and Mr. Evans said the economy was still recovering from the combined blows of a recession, the collapse of the stock market bubble, the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 But they said the fundamentals of the economy all pointed to strong growth for the foreseeable future and faster job creation. Brushing aside complaints about the federal government's large budget deficit, which the White House predicts will surpass $500 billion this year, Mr. Snow renewed the administration's call for making President Bush's tax cuts permanent, a move that would cost about $1.5 trillion over the next 10 years.
 Still stinging from criticism by Democrats about comments by a top White House aide in support of ''outsourcing,'' or shifting jobs to low-wage countries, Mr. Snow said those remarks had been ''misinterpreted'' and were not meant to condone the loss of American jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); LAYOFFS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (64%) Labor; Election Issues ; Hiring and Promotion; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%)

PERSON: Edmund L Andrews; John W (Sec) Snow; Donald L (Sec) Evans; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



425 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4; LETTER FROM ASIA

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Vietnam's Leaders Dawdle Behind a Sprinting China

BYLINE: By Jane Perlez

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam 

 BODY:
At the ornate 19th-century opera house here, Vietnam's opera and ballet orchestra presented a ground-breaking evening of all-American music.
 It was the first time the young musicians, dressed in elegant black, had tackled American compositions. Lukas Foss, Samuel Barber, Aaron Copland, Rodgers and Hammerstein and John Philip Sousa -- the harsh and the harmonious -- were all on a recent Lunar New Year program. Under the guidance of an American conductor, Steven Kruse, from the University of Toledo in Ohio, the cultural fusion of old enemies seemed complete. 
 But enduring political differences intruded. 
 The security police wanted to ban the narration of ''government of the people, by the people and for the people'' from Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg Address, which was to accompany Copland's ''Lincoln Portrait.'' At the last moment, the impasse was resolved, and Scott D. Bellard, the political counselor at the American Embassy here, stood at the front of the stage and read the words of freedom to Copland's soaring music. 
 The diplomatic tussle was a reminder that Vietnam remains one of the world's last redoubts of Communism, a distinction that it shares with its far more powerful neighbor, and erstwhile enemy, China. But as China forges ahead with its transition to a market economy, Vietnam remains far more wary, still caught in its Marxist-Leninist straitjacket and not sure it wants to wriggle out. Like the Chinese government, Vietnam's leaders have no patience for political dissent, and they continue to arrest people for expressing criticisms in e-mail messages. 
 On the economic front, the Vietnamese leaders have moved toward market reform, though grudgingly and primarily for reasons of self-preservation rather than principle, Vietnamese and Western analysts say. Vietnam did sign a trade agreement with the United States that in the past two years has propelled exports, especially of garments and shoes, but it remains one of the few Asian countries outside the World Trade Organization. 
 Vietnamese leaders know, analysts say, that they must create many more jobs to maintain political stability among a population of 80 million, overwhelmingly young people. 
 Prime Minister Phan Van Khai announced in a New Year message that he wanted a ''resolute commitment to the abolition of state subsidies.'' The enterprise law, which allows private investment, must be ''strictly enforced,'' he said. He even made a step toward lifting the veil of corruption that has engulfed the Communist Party and turned off foreign investors. Officials, he said, should declare their assets. 
 But such declarations fall far short of the spirited directives of the Chinese leaders, Zhu Rongji and, before him, Deng Xiaoping, the catalysts for the opening of China.
 ''Fear of the future and lack of confidence holds them back,'' said Thomas Vallely, the director of the Vietnam program at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, during a recent visit here. ''Vietnam can become a modern economy, because they have the money and the knowledge. Even given the failed education system, they could get out-sourcing business like India has, but they have to allow it.'' 
 The daily lives of Vietnamese people do not always square with government ideology. During the Lunar New Year festivities, for example, Vietnamese flocked to Buddhist temples and shrines, and attendance at temples is not limited to the holiday season, worshipers said. 
 Many of the people at the temples were well dressed women, often businesswomen who run manufacturing businesses and retail shops. They carried sheaves of bank notes. As they stood before Buddhist statues and altars laden with offerings -- gladiola, packets of food, bowls of fresh fruit -- they clasped their hands in prayer, the bank notes peeping out at the tops of their fingers. Afterward, the worshipers stuffed the wads of notes into a collection box. 
 For the most part, the prayers were devoted to materialistic dreams rather than spiritual transcendence. 
 Worship at Buddhist temples has been encouraged since the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991, a traumatic event that deprived Vietnam of one of its sturdiest friends. By allowing an ancient and revered tradition to blossom again, the government hoped to build ''a sense of community'' among the population, a kind of communal solidarity that would be nonthreatening to the leadership, a Western diplomat said. 
 A major test for Vietnam is its plan to join the World Trade Organization, a goal it has set for 2005. When the deputy prime minister, Vu Khoan, visited Washington in December, he told Secretary of State Colin L. Powell that Vietnam was steadfast in wanting to join the organization, a move that would hasten American investment and would signal a real opening of the economy. Mr. Khoan's pledge was intended, a Vietnamese official said, to reach out to the United States. 
 More than 50 years ago, when Ho Chi Minh announced a declaration of independence for Vietnam -- a move intended to discourage the French from reclaiming its colony after World War II -- he, too, tried to impress the Americans.
 He read a short statement to an emotional crowd in Hanoi, not far from the opera house, quoting liberally from his declaration of independence, with sentiments about personal freedom not so different from those in the Gettysburg Address, which the Hanoi thought police had tried to stifle. 
 On that earlier occasion, the United States failed to respond, and sided with the returning French.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Vietnamese government, hoping to build ''a sense of community,'' has encouraged worship at Buddhist temples. Here a woman prayed for prosperity recently at a temple in Hanoi. Prayers are often more materialistic than spiritual. (Photo by Doan Bao Chau for The New York Times)
 As China pursues a market economy, Vietnam is slow to abandon its Communist past. (Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICS (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (70%); TRENDS (69%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (65%); CORRUPTION (64%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); JOB CREATION (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Geographic Profiles; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TOLEDO (57%)

PERSON: Jane Perlez

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (57%) OHIO, USA (79%) VIET NAM (99%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); VIETNAM (92%); ASIA (79%) Vietnam; China

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



426 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Plan for Rules On Cars Joins 2 Adversaries

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
The United Auto Workers union and the Sierra Club, long at odds over federal fuel economy regulations, are joining to oppose a Bush administration plan to overhaul those rules.
 In an article today on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times, leaders of the two groups say the administration's proposals would worsen the nation's fuel economy and increase pollution and dependence on foreign oil. They also say the jobs of thousands of automobile workers at plants that make small cars could be threatened. 
 ''United States manufacturing is already in deep crisis,'' said the article, signed by Ron Gettelfinger, the U.A.W. president, and Carl Pope, the executive director of the Sierra Club. ''The Bush administration should not aggravate the problem.''
 Federal rules divide each automaker's annual fleet of new vehicles into two categories: passenger cars and light trucks, which includes sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks and minivans. Car fleets are required to average 27.5 miles per gallon and light trucks 20.7.
 In the 2002 model year, booming sales in the light truck class sank the average fuel economy for new vehicles to the lowest level in more than two decades, government figures show.
 The administration's proposed changes would break the light truck fleet into weight or size classes, instead of having a single average. The administration might also regulate light trucks that weigh more than about 5,000 pounds more stringently and change category definitions so carlike vehicles cannot be configured to fit into the light truck class.
 Administration officials have said their plan is driven more by safety concerns than saving gasoline. The plan could alleviate pressures on automakers to increase fuel economy by making vehicles lighter, which can make them less safe for the people inside.
 The union worries that a weight-based system for light trucks would be a troublesome precedent for cars. If automakers did not have to balance domestic production of large and small cars to meet fuel economy standards, the union argues, then manufacturers might make fewer small cars domestically.
 Union officials say more than 10,000 jobs at six small car plants in Michigan, Ohio, Delaware, Illinois and Tennessee could be threatened by the administration's proposals.
 And rule changes could mean the average new vehicle would be heavier and less fuel-efficient than it is today, the authors of the opinion article wrote. ''America's dependence on foreign oil would increase, and our environment would suffer,'' they wrote.
 The opinion article did not propose an alternative to the Bush plan. While the Sierra Club has pushed for substantial increases in fuel economy standards, the union has opposed such plans.
 The industry said it was waiting to see more details before taking a position. ''We have to see the fine print,'' said Eron Shosteck, a spokesman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, the industry's leading lobbying group.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 19, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about a column on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times by the United Auto Workers and the Sierra Club, opposing a plan by the Bush administration to overhaul fuel economy rules, omitted comment from the government. Rae Tyson, a spokesman for the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, said that the proposals were at an early stage and that suggestions are being sought from all parties, including the union and environmental groups.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (96%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MINIVANS (73%); TRUCKING (68%); WRITERS (60%) Automobiles; Fuel Efficiency; Air Pollution; Labor

COMPANY: UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (93%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (93%) United Automobile Workers; Sierra Club 

INDUSTRY: SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (57%)

PERSON: Carl Pope; Ron Gettelfinger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



427 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Russia Levels New Charge of Theft Against Yukos Oil Stockholder

BYLINE: By ERIN E. ARVEDLUND

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Feb. 17 

 BODY:
Russian prosecutors expanded charges on Tuesday against a major shareholder in the Yukos oil company, one day after a group of shareholders made an offer they hoped would free him and two other imprisoned Yukos figures.
 On Monday, a major shareholder in Yukos, Leonid Nevzlin, offered to swap his stake and those of other large shareholders, worth about 44 percent of the company, for the release of the three men: Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the former chief executive and Russia's richest man; Platon Lebedev, an important shareholder; and Aleksei Pichugin, head of Yukos's security service.
 All three are in jail awaiting trial on various charges, including fraud and embezzlement.
 ''What I'm saying is, 'Let my people go,' '' Mr. Nevzlin said on Monday in an interview from Israel, where he is living. ''Then we will stop being shareholders.'' The 44 percent of Yukos he offered is worth about $14 billion. 
 Russia has asked Interpol to issue a warrant for Mr. Nevzlin as part of an investigation into corruption.
 There has been no official response from the Kremlin, which is widely seen as having backed the prosecution of Mr. Khodorkovsky as part of a broader campaign to curtail the oil baron's political ambitions.
 Instead, the General Prosecutor's Office expanded its case against Mr. Lebedev, who was jailed last July, adding a new charge of having stolen $30 million.
 ''On the one hand, we need to familiarize ourselves with case records, and on the other, we are being presented with new charges,'' one of Mr. Lebedev's lawyers, Vladimir Krasnov, told Interfax news agency.
 The original charges against Mr. Khodorkovsky and Mr. Lebedev were linked not to Yukos, but to a fertilizer company, Apatit, in the billionaire's financial empire. Mr. Khodorkovsky's wealth and that of several other Yukos shareholders is in a holding company called Group Menatep.
 The Kremlin is not expected to accept such a public offer from the oil tycoon's camp, and has instead turned up the heat on the embattled Group Menatep.
 ''There is a great desire out there for some kind of solution to be achieved,'' said Adam Landes, an oil and gas analyst at Renaissance Capital in London. However, with Russia's oligarchs now toeing the Kremlin line, and with little political or economic fallout from the men's arrests, there is little incentive to release Mr. Khodorkovsky, he said.
 Separately, the endgame between the Kremlin and Menatep shareholders could pave the way for a deal for the contested stake in Yukos. Some now expect the government to force Mr. Khodorkovsky and his Group Menatep associates to cede control of Yukos either to the state or to an approved buyer.
 According to one analyst, ExxonMobil's chairman and chief executive, Lee R. Raymond, privately told investors and analysts in the United States that he was ''very optimistic'' about a possible acquisition in Russia, without naming any oil company.
 An ExxonMobil spokesman, Tom Sirigliano, said Tuesday that the company ''does not comment on rumors'' regarding potential acquisitions.
 ''Lee Raymond has never responded to any of the rumors, about Yukos or other companies,'' Mr. Sirigliano said. ''The only comment Lee has made publicly about Russia is, 'Everybody needs to be patient and take a deep breath.' ''
 Other supporters of Mr. Khodorkovsky said he was more interested in a trial open to the public than a prison swap.
 ''Khodorkovsky believes that the friends who are speaking on his behalf nevertheless fail to represent his position,'' Irina Yasina, who works at his Open Russia charitable foundation, said on the radio station Echo Moskvy.
 Mr. Khodorkovsky, she said, ''is perfectly aware of their anxiety regarding his future and the future of their colleagues who are in prison now.''
 ''But money is not the main thing for Khodorkovsky,'' she added. ''The main thing is his honest name. And he will only defend this honest name in an open trial.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (94%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); CORRUPTION (78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); EMBEZZLEMENT (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FERTILIZERS (50%) Frauds and Swindling; Embezzlement; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (96%); APATIT OAO (53%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL POLICE ORGANIZATION (INTERPOL) (82%) Yukos (Russian Co); Interpol

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (96%); SIC1499 MISC. NONMETALLIC MINERALS EX. FUELS (53%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%)

PERSON: Platon Lebedev; Aleksei Pichugin; Mikhail B Khodorkovsky; Leonid Nevzlin; Erin E Arvedlund

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) Russia; Israel; Russia

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



428 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET -- Long Island

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Well-Situated Large Property Is Breaking Old Price Levels

BYLINE: By CAROLE PAQUETTE

 BODY:
With a number of acquisitions being negotiated, commercial real estate brokers say they are optimistic that sales on Long Island will continue to increase this year, following the pattern of 2003, when several large properties changed hands at significantly rising prices.
 ''The investment trend appears to be continuing into 2004,'' said Bruce C. Nelson, a vice president in the investment properties group in the Woodbury office of CB Richard Ellis, the real estate services company. 
 There is ''approximately $125 million of investment-grade real estate under contract or being offered for sale,'' he said, ''including a $35 million portfolio of three properties that is in contract and two separate office-building transactions that are under way in Nassau for a combined price of approximately $40 million.'' 
 While saying that confidentiality agreements prevented him from identifying the buildings, Mr. Nelson said the three-property portfolio included office and retail space totaling 226,000 square feet, and the two office-building sales totaled 280,000 square feet. 
 Last year, Long Island buildings containing three million square feet of office space sold for a total of $470 million -- an increase from 2002, when 1.8 million square feet sold for a total of $252 million. Last year's sales included about 10 office properties ranging from 109,000 square feet to more than a million square feet. 
 In September, a Melville office building sold for $150 a square foot and raised the bar on prices for subsequent sales, Mr. Nelson said. Previously, well-situated office buildings had sold for about $130 a foot. After the Melville sale, three buildings sold above $170 a square foot.
 Mr. Nelson said that while some people were buying for their own use, most bought ''as an investment and hiring companies to manage them.''
 Industrial sales have also been increasing, with purchases by users and investors, said Charles Tabone, manager of the industrial division at the Long Island office of Newmark & Company, the real estate services provider. ''The driving force is the plentiful supply of funding, because of low interest rates, and those in leased spaces are now looking to buy,'' Mr. Tabone said. 
 Accounting for a large part of 2003 office-building sales was the purchase of the 15-story, 1.1 million-square-foot EAB Plaza office complex in Uniondale for $185,670,000 by Galaxy LI Associates, a joint venture of two Manhattan property companies, the Moinian Group and C&K Properties. The seller was a joint venture of the DeMatteis Organization and ABN Amro, the Dutch bank. 
 Joseph Moinian, the Moinian Group's chief executive, said Galaxy was planning to build a 340,000-square-foot office tower just west of EAB Plaza, and was looking to invest in more property on Long Island. 
 Brokers say that one of the most interesting sales last year was of a 14-year-old, 143,000-square-foot building in Melville that was bought for $21.5 million by Steel Equities of Bethpage from One Beacon Insurance Group. Aside from EAB Plaza, which sold for $173 a square foot in part because of amenities including a skating pond, the Melville building, at $150 a square foot, ''was a high-water mark at the time it occurred,'' Mr. Nelson said. The building's location, at the intersection of the Long Island Expressway and Route 110, was the key to its high price, he said.
 Last month, Reckson Associates Realty Corporation, a Long Island-based real estate investment trust, sold a 21-year-old, 109,000-square-foot six-story office building in Mineola for $18.5 million -- $170 a square foot -- to nearby Winthrop University Hospital, which will use it for administrative offices.
 Scott Rechler, Reckson's chief executive, explained, ''We want to focus on the Class A office market and we are selling our assets that are not Class A or in prime locations,'' adding, ''We are planning to buy more than $100 million worth of deals on Long Island.''
 Reckson now owns 27 Long Island office buildings totaling 4.1 million square feet. In September, in a $315 million transaction, four members of the Rechler family resigned from the real estate trust -- which had held 20 million square feet of office and industrial space in the New York area -- to acquire its Long Island industrial portfolio of 95 buildings totaling 5.9 million square feet. 
 According to Newmark's data, in 2003, not including the sale of the Reckson industrial portfolio, a total of 4,060,925 square feet of Long Island industrial properties, with a total value of $184,550,603, were sold, compared with 3,101,223 square feet, with a value of $171,621,077, in 2002.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The sale last year of EAB Plaza at Uniondale, N.Y., for more than $185 million was among the most prominent of Long Island real estate deals. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)Chart: ''Data Update''Value of construction contracts for nonresidential buildings by region. Seasonally adjusted annual rate through December.Graph tracks construction contracts (regionally in billions) for the South, West, Midwest, and Northeast from 2000 through 2003.NATIONAL IN BILLIONSDEC. 2002: $146.1OCT. 2003: 149.8NOV. 2003: 146.3DEC. 2003: 142.0(Source by McGraw-Hill Construction/Dodge) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); JOINT VENTURES (73%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Sales

COMPANY: THE DEMATTEIS ORGANIZATIONS (84%); CBRE GROUP INC (58%); BGC PARTNERS INC (52%); C&K PROPERTIES (51%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (50%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (58%); BGCP (NASDAQ) (52%); ABO (ASX) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (84%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (84%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: Carole Paquette

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (74%) Long Island (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



429 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE NORTH CAROLINA SENATOR

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Edwards Proves His Point With a Strong Late Surge

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE, Feb. 17 

 BODY:
He did not say, ''I told you so,'' but he might as well have.
 Over and over, Senator John Edwards of North Carolina had urged Democrats not to count him out. He cautioned pundits that he surged late and could sense it happening here, though he was not confident he could overtake Senator John Kerry. There was Mr. Kerry's momentum and the assumption by many Democrats that the race was all but over. 
 But with the results showing him just a few percentage points behind Mr. Kerry on Tuesday night, after some recent polls had placed him more than 20 points behind, Mr. Edwards hopped onto a stage at a community hall, beaming and pumping his fists, barely containing his glee.
 ''Today the voters of Wisconsin sent a clear message,'' Mr. Edwards said, ''and the message was this: Objects in your mirror may be closer than they appear.'' 
 But he quickly moved to the theme he had promoted all week, the need to recover from the loss of thousands of manufacturing jobs, a theme his advisers say he will emphasize before the Super Tuesday round of primaries on March 2. He recalled meeting earlier in the week with steelworkers facing the prospect of losing their jobs when their factory moves operations to Mexico.
 ''They lost their jobs; their jobs are going to Mexico,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''What are they supposed to do?'' 
 The election result left Mr. Edwards's advisers pondering what might have been if he had had another week to campaign.
 Though Mr. Edwards held events every day in Wisconsin, ran three different television commercials statewide and won the endorsement of the state's two largest newspapers, he left the state twice for fund-raisers in Los Angeles.
 Surveys of voters leaving the polls bore out Mr. Edwards's predictions that he tended to close strongly and attracted votes from beyond the party. He drew the support of almost half the voters who made their decision in the last three days, and his focus on jobs seems to have paid off. Of voters who said the economy was their top concern, 45 percent voted for him. Just as in earlier open primaries, he drew strong support from Republicans as well. 
 He also captured the majority of votes from those who said they considered a positive message most important and those who said they were concerned about the candidate having the right temperament.
 Mr. Edwards said he now expected the run-up to Super Tuesday, when 10 states have primaries or caucuses, to be the two-man race he has sought. 
 Long before the polls closed, Mr. Edwards, in an interview with an Ohio television station, said that as a ''practical matter,'' Howard Dean was out of the race.
 ''It's already narrowed down to Senator Kerry and myself,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''We clearly have the ability to go long-term in this nomination process.''
 Mr. Edwards has won just one primary, in South Carolina, his birthplace. He came in second in Iowa, Missouri, Oklahoma, Tennessee and Virginia and finished fourth or worse in the other contests, some of which he skipped.
 Experts said they believed the closer-than-expected showing on Tuesday would solidify Mr. Edwards as the alternative to Mr. Kerry and would position him well for a Kerry collapse, or for the vice presidential sweepstakes, though Mr. Edwards has insisted he is not campaigning for that job.
 ''It will galvanize his resolve that he is the credible alternative to Kerry and the media needs to treat me as a bona fide second candidate in the race,'' Doug Schoen, a veteran Democratic pollster, said.
 Mr. Edwards's supporters predict he will continue to draw disaffected working-class voters once known as Reagan Democrats.
 Going into Wisconsin, his strategists saw an opportunity. There would be a full week to campaign in just one state with a history of favoring populists, as Mr. Edwards promoted himself, and an electorate stacked with independents who, polls in other states showed, Mr. Edwards was attracting.
 Bill de Blasio, a New York City councilman and veteran Democratic operative who is running Mr. Edwards's campaign in the state, said Mr. Edwards would do well in Rust Belt upstate communities and working-class sections of the outer boroughs and suburbs.
 ''New York is a place that defies prediction,'' Mr. de Blasio said, adding that ''the decision tonight may be closer than expected and that will have an impact.''
 Mr. Edwards does not plan to compete in the Feb. 24 contests in Hawaii, Utah and Idaho and will instead jump ahead to the March 2 states, his campaign aides said.
 Nick Baldick, his campaign manager, said he believed the two-week gap before March 2 would allow Mr. Edwards to become better known, and voters to reconsider Mr. Kerry's front-runner status.
 Mr. Edwards plans to focus on New York, Georgia and Ohio -- he is planning three trips to New York alone over three days this week -- where he plans to combine his standard upbeat message with more talk on the loss of manufacturing jobs to trade agreements. 
 ''We plan to spend a lot of time in the Albanys in New York and Georgia, the Rochester, New Yorks, the Cincinnatis and Daytons,'' Mr. Baldick said.
 Campaign officials said Mr. Edwards's travel plans were still under discussion. Although Mr. Edwards has said he will ''compete everywhere,'' it is possible that he will bypass Vermont, Connecticut and Rhode Island, which are in Mr. Kerry's home turf.
 At this point Mr. Edwards does not plan to focus on California, either.
 The two biggest states that vote on March 2, California and New York, also include the most expensive television advertising markets, New York City and Los Angeles. Mr. Edwards does not yet have the money to advertise in those cities and for now will focus on smaller markets in New York, Ohio and Georgia.


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Edwards last night with his parents, Bobbie and Wallace Edwards, right, at a Milwaukee rally. (Photo by Charlie Riedel/Associated Press)
Senator John Kerry with his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, and Gov. James E. Doyle last night in Middleton, Wis. (Photo by Charles Krupa/Associated Press)
 Howard Dean, with Representative Sheila Jackson Lee of Texas, after the polls closed in Madison, Wis. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); POLITICS (74%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (72%); FACTORY WORKERS (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%); DISMISSALS (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); FUNDRAISING (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%) Presidential Election of 2004; Primaries; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (93%); JOHN KERRY (92%); SHEILA JACKSON-LEE (57%); JIM DOYLE (57%) John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards; Randal C Archibold

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%); MADISON, WI, USA (71%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



430 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Iraqi Shiites Pushing For New Election Plan
Shiite leaders are pushing a new plan for the transfer of power in Iraq that calls for partial elections, with balloting in the relatively secure Shiite and Kurdish areas but not in the more turbulent ''Sunni triangle.'' A1

Malaysia Nuclear Link Examined
Investigators are trying to determine whether businessman B.S.A. Tahir's legitimate businesses in Malaysia have been a cover for nuclear-black-market activities, a senior Malaysian official said. A1

New Jewish Settlement Funds
Israeli lawmakers approved more than $20 million in new spending for Jewish settlements, two weeks after Prime Minister Ariel Sharon suggested he might remove most of the settlers in the Gaza Strip. A9

Nobel Laureate Shuns Iran Vote
Shirin Ebadi, the Nobel Peace Prize laureate, said she would not vote in the Iranian parliamentary elections on Friday in which more than 2,000 candidates were disqualified. A6

U.S. Troops Will Not Go to Haiti
The Bush administration ruled out sending American troops or police to quell violence in Haiti, while Canada and France said they would deploy police only in the context of a Haitian political settlement. A9

Dutch to Expel Asylum Seekers
The Dutch lower house of Parliament voted to expel up to 26,000 failed asylum seekers. A3

Military Changes in Afghanistan
The commander of American-led forces in Afghanistan said the military had adopted new tactics to combat Taliban and Al Qaeda terrorists operating in the country. A8

Yukos Prosecution Expanded
Russian prosecutors expanded charges against a major shareholder in the Yukos oil company, one day after a group of shareholders made an offer in hopes of freeing him and two other imprisoned Yukos figures. A9

NATIONAL A10-17

Kerry Outpolls Edwards As Two-Man Race Emerges
The Democratic presidential nomination battle turned into a two-person contest as Senator John Kerry narrowly defeated Senator John Edwards in the Wisconsin primary. Howard Dean suffered a dismal third place showing that Democrats said would effectively end his campaign. A1

A Vermont judge ruled that Dr. Dean could not use a blanket assertion of executive privilege to shield from public view papers he assembled over 11 years as governor. A13

Bishop Guilty in Crash
Bishop Thomas J. O'Brien, who was arrested in a crash that killed a carpenter, was found guilty of leaving the scene of a fatal accident. A10

Same-Sex Marriages Go On
Scores of same-sex couples were married in San Francisco City Hall as lawyers for the city and groups opposed to the marriages argued about their legality. A10

Diocese Reports on Abuse
The Archdiocese of Los Angeles released a report identifying 244 priests, brothers, deacons and seminarians accused of sexually abusing 656 minors since 1930. A16

Auto Workers Fight Fuel Plan
The United Auto Workers and the Sierra Club, long at odds over fuel economy regulations, have joined forces to oppose an administration plan to overhaul those rules. A17

Caution on Job Forecast
Treasury Secretary John W. Snow distanced himself from the Bush administration's official prediction that the nation would add 2.6 million jobs by the end of this year. A17

New Rules for Airline Tanks
The Federal Aviation Administration said it hoped to propose a rule this fall that would require airlines to take steps to cut the risk of fuel tank explosions like the one that destroyed T.W.A. Flight 800. A17

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Grand Jury Decides Not to Indict Officer
A grand jury declined to indict a police officer in the fatal shooting of an unarmed 19-year-old man on the roof of a Brooklyn housing project last month, officials said. B1

Mayor Takes Back Car Sirens
Mayor Bloomberg said he would ask several people in his administration to relinquish the lights and sirens that had been installed in their city-issued cars, following news reports that a deputy mayor frequently used hers for non-emergency trips. B3

OBITUARIES C11

Jose Lopez Portillo
The president of Mexico from 1976 to 1982, who brought it to the brink of economic collapse, he was 83. C11

ARTS E1-8

Tomb Exhibit Closes Early
Egyptian tombs at the Metropolitan Museum of Art temporarily on view for the first time in nine decades without protective glass that had obscured them, will be closed one month early. Officials worried that excess humidity would damage them. B3

SPORTS D1-6

Yankee Trading May Continue
George Steinbrenner talked of another possible trade to counter any weaknesses, real or imagined, arising in the wake of Alex Rodriguez's arrival at third base. D5

DINING F1-12

Not One to Dine Out
Ira Glustein, a man in his late 50's who has lived in New York City nearly all his life, has eaten in restaurants only twice, in 1963 and 1964. F5

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Cingular Gets AT&T Wireless
Cingular Wireless outbid Vodafone of Britain for AT&T Wireless with a last-minute offer of $41 billion in a deal that will reshape the cutthroat wireless telephone business. A1

Market Makers Settle Case
The top market makers at the New York Stock Exchange have agreed with regulators to pay about $240 million in penalties and fines because of trading abuses people involved in the settlement said. C1

Ruling in Cattle Contract Case
A federal jury in Alabama awarded a group of ranchers $1.28 billion in damages after it found that the country's largest beef packing firm used illegal contracts to hold down the prices it paid for beef. C1

Intel's Strategic Reversal
The Intel Corporation announced that it would follow the lead of a smaller rival by building 64-bit capability into chips. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDUCATION B8

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Gay marriage in the states; squeezing the poor; undemocratic Tunisia; the spies in your computer.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, William Safire.

Crossword E4
TV Listings E7
Public Lives B2
Weather D7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); RELIGION (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (88%); TERRORISM (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); MARRIAGE (83%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); COHABITATION (75%); LITIGATION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); JUDGES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); VERDICTS (72%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); TALIBAN (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); ARRESTS (67%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (65%); AL-QAEDA (64%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (64%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (63%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (63%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (60%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (60%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (82%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MALAYSIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); HAITI (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



431 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: More Jobs To the Gallon

BYLINE: By Carl Pope and Ron Gettelfinger. 
Carl Pope is executive director of the Sierra Club. Ron Gettelfinger is president of the U.A.W.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration has issued a proposal that would weaken one of the nation's most successful environmental laws. The administration's plan would change current automotive fuel economy standards and allow a loophole that would hurt the environment, auto workers and the economy.
 While many details of the plan remain vague, and any changes would not take effect for several years, the administration has begun soliciting public comment on its proposal. 
 Under current law, automakers are required to meet an average fuel economy standard for their fleets of cars and light trucks. They can make vehicles that fall below the average so long as they make enough that exceed it. By requiring an average fuel economy of 27.5 miles per gallon for cars and 20.7 for light trucks, current standards save more than 2.8 million barrels of oil per day while reducing heat-trapping global warming emissions by nearly 600 million tons per year.
 At the same time, workers and communities benefit because auto companies must produce small cars in the United States to balance out their production of larger vehicles. This fleetwide approach gives companies flexibility in designing and producing vehicles.
 The Bush administration is proposing to scrap these standards for a new system that would establish a series of vehicle weight categories, with a separate standard for each category. Basically, heavier vehicles would have lower fuel standards. Since they would no longer need to meet a fleetwide average, automakers would be free to add weight to all of their vehicles to make them qualify for heavier weight categories.
 The result would be a reduction in overall fuel economy and an increase in pollution. America's dependence on foreign oil would increase, and our environment would suffer.
 The shift to a weight-based system could also jeopardize the jobs of thousands of Americans who work, either directly or indirectly, on the production of small cars.
 The current rules require automakers to meet fleetwide fuel economy standards separately for cars made in the United States and cars made overseas. Both domestic and foreign-made cars sold in the United States must average 27.5 miles per gallon.
 The effect of this requirement has been to keep good jobs in America. Without a fleetwide standard, auto companies would be free to shift the production of smaller, less profitable vehicles from the United States to overseas. As there is already overcapacity in the auto industry, this could lead to the closing of plants that produce mostly small cars and parts for small cars.
 United States manufacturing is already in deep crisis, with employment having declined every month since President Bush took office -- a total of 2.8 million lost manufacturing jobs. The Bush administration should not aggravate the problem with changes in fuel economy standards that could jeopardize the jobs of thousands of workers in the auto industry. Even some automakers have expressed concern about these new standards, preferring the existing rules to uncertain new requirements.
 The Sierra Club and the United Auto Workers do not always agree on automobile policy. We do agree, however, that the Bush administration's proposal would destroy American jobs, reduce fuel economy and increase global warming emissions -- and add to the burdens of an already struggling auto industry.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Rob Shepperson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); DEREGULATION (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); CLOSINGS (60%) Automobiles; Election Issues; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Labor; Fuel Efficiency ; Air Pollution; Automobiles

COMPANY: UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (59%) Sierra Club; United Automobile Workers

INDUSTRY: SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Carl Pope; Ron Gettelfinger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



432 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: An Election Nobody Will Win

BYLINE: By Ali Safavi. 
Ali Safavi is president of Near East Policy Research, a consulting and policy analysis firm.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It doesn't take a crystal ball to predict that Iran's ruling mullahs will be victorious in the parliamentary elections scheduled for Friday. After all, to protest the disqualification of thousands of candidates by the government's all-powerful Guardian Council, more than a third of Parliament has resigned and rival parties have vowed to boycott the voting. Still, no matter how many seats the clerical establishment gains, it will be a Pyrrhic victory -- the regime is going to be far more vulnerable to the growing dissatisfaction of the Iranian public and less legitimate to the rest of the world. 
 This is not to say the official opposition will gain much, either. Seven years after Mohammad Khatami won the presidency on pledges of reform, few Iranians have any illusions about substantial changes under the current system. Everything that has played out in recent weeks -- the three-week-long sit-in in Parliament by 80 disqualified incumbents, the widespread resignations of government officials, the Interior Ministry's refusal to organize the unfair elections -- got lots of international press coverage, but it did little to reverse the Iranian public's widespread apathy about politics. 
 Average Iranians know that all this political wrangling is not really about their fundamental rights to free speech and representative government. Rather, it is an internal power play between the hard-liners and the reformists over who gets a bigger share of power in the current system.
 In fact, Mr. Khatami's reformist rhetoric, with its sprinkling of quotations from Voltaire and Tocqueville, has done more to provide cover for European trade with Tehran than to improve the lives of ordinary Iranians. The public hangings, amputations, floggings of women and crackdowns on dissidents continue. According to the state-run news media, since the beginning of the year at least 31 people have been hanged. According to human-rights groups, economic misery, bureaucratic corruption, drug addiction and prostitution continue to rise.
 The mullahcracy is so loathed that fewer than 10 percent of the electorate turned out for municipal elections last year -- even though the vote was organized by President Khatami's forces. The electoral process is a self-serving practice where all candidates must declare allegiance to the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Thus it was no surprise that despite an earlier pledge not to permit an unfair election this month, Mr. Khatami eventually capitulated to Ayatollah Khamenei and is allowing Friday's charade to go ahead.
 In the end, it matters little whether the pro-Khatami candidates are on the ballot or not. As the Pentagon adviser Richard Perle said at a gathering of some 5,000 Iranian-Americans last month, ''There is no question where the power lies in Iran today -- it isn't through the electoral process, it isn't through those people who stand for elections, it's with a handful of self-appointed dictators.'' 
 There is only one way to change the situation: a United Nations-supervised referendum on regime change. Leading Iranian exiles including Maryam Rajavi have long called for such a measure, and there are now clear indicators that the Iranian people would welcome it. A government survey last year found that 45 percent of respondents wanted the political system totally changed, even if it involved foreign intervention. (And if nearly half of Iranians were willing to say this to official pollsters, you can imagine how strong the anti-mullah sentiment really is.) Last June, tens of thousands of Iranians took to the streets to demand a nationwide referendum on regime change. 
 Of course, a referendum is anathema to the mullahs, who know that given the opportunity, millions in Iran would vote them out of office. That's why 4,000 of those protesters were arrested and, according to Amnesty International, many have yet to be released.
 Unfortunately, the United States has sent mixed signals to Tehran. While President Bush has been unequivocal in encouraging the democracy movement, the State Department has pushed hard for negotiating with the mullahs. The department arranged a travel waiver for Iran's United Nations envoy -- who is usually confined to a 25-mile circle around New York City because of a lack of diplomatic relations between the countries -- to fly to Washington in January to meet with a bipartisan Congressional delegation. It has endorsed sending a Congressional delegation to Tehran on the 25th anniversary of the clerics' rise to power. (The department has even classified the Iranian National Council of Resistance, an exile group of which I am a former official, as a ''terrorist organization.'')
 To believe that the United States can do business with tyrants in Tehran is counterproductive. Not only would a new effort at diplomacy give the mullahs a shot in the arm precisely when they face growing popular opposition, but it would signal that America is willing to negotiate with a regime that uses terror at home and abroad. 
 The so-called reform movement is a spent force. Millions of average Iranians have shown courage in calling for the only thing that can bring about true reform: a referendum for regime change. Washington would do well to embrace that call. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); BOYCOTTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTION LAW (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); RELIGION (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (65%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); CITIES (50%) Elections; Legislatures and Parliaments; Politics and Government; Boycotts

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (78%) Ali Safavi

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (79%); EUROPE (79%) Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



433 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: The Edwards Surprise

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE. 
E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
F.D.R.'s secretary of the Navy, Claude Swanson, gave us this political adage: ''When the water reaches the upper level, follow the rats.''
 This lugubrious saying is called to mind by the way the chairman of Howard Dean's campaign stabbed his candidate in the back on the eve of his do-or-die Wisconsin primary. 
 Steven Grossman, former chairman of the Democratic National Committee, knew that his last-minute defection would dominate the final-day news and crush Dean's hopes of a stronger-than-expected showing. 
 What drives an old pro to such political disloyalty? Was Grossman trying to win his way back into John Kerry's good graces by dumping Dean at the propitious moment? 
 To most political pros, that doesn't add up. As yesterday's stunning Wisconsin results show, it is in Kerry's interest for Dean to stay in the race even beyond Super Tuesday, March 2. 
 First, contested primaries keep Kerry in the news, waving victoriously, gaining TV ''debate'' time to blaze away at President Bush. Dean is now a useful sparring partner, jabbing lightly, the perennial loser who helps define the consistent winner. 
 The other service Dean now performs for Kerry is to split the not-Kerry Democratic vote. This is not yet an anti-Kerry vote, because the Massachusetts senator has stolen Dean's antiwar resentment and adopted John Edwards's cheerful soak-the-rich pitch. But many Democrats could turn anti-Kerry if Edwards continues to play the feisty Avis to Kerry's establishment Hertz.
 There's a new phase a-coming. Kerry has had his comeback honeymoon. He has offered only a high-carb diet of populist platitudes in stump speeches. For a serious man running for a serious job, Kerry has not made a policy speech since December, when he was nobody. 
 The Washington Post editorialist just noted ''his fuzziness on issues ranging from Iraq to gay marriage. . . . He voted for the North American Free Trade Agreement yet now talks in protectionist terms. . . . He must explain how he would manage the real and dangerous challenges the U.S. now faces in Iraq -- without the fuzzing.'' The Post's Fred Hiatt is not yet Meg Greenfield, but his influential wake-up call is sure to be echoed -- especially in light of Wisconsin's results.
 Kerry's momentum is now checked. The surprise was John Edwards's powerful showing, especially among independents, followed lamely by Dean. If Dean had taken the Grossman gas pipe and announced he would quit, I believe his anti-establishment vote would have split two to one for the Southerner Edwards, snatching victory from Kerry -- and in Wisconsin, by yimminy, where voters can hardly understand a word he's saying. 
 If Edwards is smart (and a trial lawyer who got $25 million for himself out of the medical profession must have an agile mind) he will carry an empty chair around New York, Ohio, Georgia and California, demanding that Kerry debate him one on one about Nafta, where he is a genuine Smoot-Hawley protectionist and Kerry merely a primary-conversion protectionist. 
 Kerry would probably refuse to debate unless Dean was included, to steal the debate spotlight like Ross Perot. But if Dean wanted to get even, the embittered Vermonter would accept and then back out at the last minute to let the two frontrunners have at it. Oh, boy. 
 Did I just say ''two frontrunners''? How can that be -- when Edwards starts from so far behind? And when Kerry is belatedly lionized by Clintonites who thought a Dean debacle would pave the way for Hillary in 2008? And when Kerry's Kennedy acolytes turn ashen-faced only at the rumor that an Al Gore endorsement is imminent?
 Here's how: Although Dean is not a kingmaker, he can be the frontrunner-maker. By staying in through Super Tuesday, this anti-Warwick could ensure Kerry's nomination. By throwing his waning strength (and Web fund-raising) to Edwards, he could help transform a routine Boston coronation into a neck-and-neck race down the homestretch.
 There's a consummation devoutly to be wished. It would mean the weekly Kerry victory parade would be over and the media pendulum could swing again -- and that the pressure would be on Edwards to cut the class warfare lest he expose the deep economic split in the Democratic Party. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PROTECTIONISM (74%); NAVIES (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); MARRIAGE (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) William Safire; John (Sen) Kerry; Howard (Dr) Dean; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



434 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Squeezing the Poor for Votes

 BODY:
Destructive fine print is showing through the budgetary bandwagon President Bush has designed for his re-election drive. It turns out that hundreds of thousands of poor and low-income families will lose child care and housing assistance if the administration's ballyhooed spending cuts take effect. In trying to campaign as a late-blooming fiscal disciplinarian, the president is making a show of marking 128 programs -- count 'em, G.O.P. budget hawks, 128 -- for elimination or cutbacks in many vital social service areas. As if they are at the heart of the administration's rolling deficits, which threaten the nation's economic future. 
 The savings from the draconian budget theatrics would total no more than $4.9 billion. This is less than 1 percent of the record $521 billion deficit Mr. Bush helped create with tax cuts weighted toward the affluent (whose top 1 percent will net a $45 billion boon in this year alone). The real costs of such shabby budget politics would affect programs like housing vouchers. These would be cut $1.7 billion below what's needed to maintain the two million people getting help. Depending on localities' responses, this cut could mean the denial of vouchers to 250,000 of the impoverished, elderly and disabled. 
 Likewise, after all the bipartisan dedication to steering people from welfare to workfare, the White House would demonstrate election-year toughness by cutting child care aid for the working poor, who need it most. The proposed cuts would mean a minimal drop of 200,000, and probably 365,000, in the number of children receiving child care aid in the next five years. In cutting these indispensable programs, Mr. Bush is trying to tell voters that down is up -- that the deficit problem is rooted on the ledger's spending side, not the revenue side, which he has systematically choked by trillions across the decade. Government data actually indicates that spending as a share of the economy has not rocketed and remains relatively low, while the Bush tax cuts increasingly drive the grim deficit outlook.
 Congress should be the first to recognize and dismiss the president's budget as an arrant campaign pamphlet. It would leave profligate Republicans picking on the poor in a desperate attempt to stand for fiscal responsibility. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); CHILDREN (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); TAX LAW (73%) Election Issues ; Editorials; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



435 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Scandal Figure In Nassau Opts for Silence

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Feb. 17 

 BODY:
After avoiding subpoenas for a month, the man at the center of a scandal in Nassau County government, Peter T. Sylver, finally took the witness stand on Tuesday at the County Legislature's hearings and responded to questions by repeatedly invoking his Fifth Amendment right to avoid self-incrimination.
 Before Mr. Sylver spoke, his lawyer, Stephen Worth, issued a blanket denial. ''He categorically denies all of the allegations that have been swirling before this committee, from tinted windows of a county car to sexual assault,'' he said. Mr. Sylver was County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi's deputy for economic development until he resigned under fire nearly three months ago. Since then, Mr. Sylver has been the target of numerous accusations that have been a major embarrassment to the Suozzi administration, which has made large strides in stabilizing a county government that was on the brink of bankruptcy. 
 Mr. Worth described Mr. Sylver as ''a man who has been accused of a great many things.''
 Those accusations include conflict of interests, cronyism, hiring consultants without bidding, using a falsely obtained credit card, billing inappropriate expenses to the county, using a forged document, violating civil service rules, misusing federal funds to pay for county workers, political favoritism, poor supervision of the departments under his control and sexually assaulting his executive assistant. 
 Legislators had tried for last four weeks to serve a subpoena on Mr. Sylver, and his lawyer tried to get him excused from testifying. As the hearing unfolded, Mr. Sylver declined to testify about specific issues. Except for a few preliminary answers about his former title as deputy county executive, he replied to all other questions by refusing to testify under the Fifth Amendment. 
 After he claimed his right to remain silent about a dozen times, the Legislature's presiding officer, Judith A. Jacobs, said that there was no point in prolonging the questioning. ''I will not allow it to go on forever,'' she said. ''We excuse the witness.''
 The answers may have to come from other witnesses and from the inquiries being conducted by the Nassau County district attorney, the United States attorney, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development. ''There is ample evidence from virtually a thousand other sources, with the exception of the sexual assault charge, to vindicate all the actions that Peter Sylver took,'' Mr. Worth told the legislators. ''At all times while he was an employee of this county he had the best interests of the county at heart and did his very best.''
 The scandal has disrupted the agencies Mr. Sylver once ran. An official who testified after him said the county could lose some of its federal grants if it does not catch up to its program deadlines. 
 In testimony at an earlier session, Mr. Sylver's former housing director, Robin Pelligrini, accused him of seeking help for his brother, a construction contractor, by pressuring a developer who had a proposal before the county. She also said Mr. Sylver had ordered the hiring of two members of his wedding party, including the best man.
 The county's former civil service director, Thomas A. Williams, had testified that Mr. Sylver's agencies had violated civil service laws for several employees and had improperly used federal funds for county purposes.
 Both Ms. Pelligrini and Mr. Williams were fired and have filed a joint multimillion-dollar suit against the county saying they were punished for speaking up.
 Republican legislators have complained that Mr. Sylver's agencies hired consultants without bidding and played politics by giving $750,000 of work to the Crowe Deegan law firm, which gave $33,000 to the campaign of Mr. Suozzi, a Democrat.
 Recent audits have showed that Mr. Sylver obtained a credit card by using an application that falsely claimed that a county agency is a corporation, that its board had approved the application and that he was an officer of it.
 Mr. Sylver was criticized for various charges on the credit card, including $707 to tint the windows of his county car and $318 for a staff party, though a witness testified that the staff chipped in to share the cost.
 After Mr. Sylver ordered his assistant fired, she accused him of repeated sexual harassment and said she was dismissed the day after she refused further advances, legislative aides said. That case was settled by promoting her to a higher paying job in another agency, and she agreed not to pursue her complaint.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter T. Sylver, former deputy Nassau County executive. (Photo by Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (94%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (93%); SUBPOENAS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); WITNESSES (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); SCANDALS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ETHICS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); POLITICS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); BRIBERY (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); CITIES (50%) Ethics; Bribery; Sexual Harassment; Politics and Government

PERSON: Bruce Lambert; Peter Sylver; Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Nassau County (NY) 

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004



436 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: A Way Out for Haiti

BYLINE: By James Dobbins. 
James Dobbins, director of the International Security and Defense Policy Center at RAND, was President Bill Clinton's special envoy for Haiti from 1994 to 1996.

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va. 

 BODY:
Ever since President Woodrow Wilson sent in the Marines in 1915, the United States has made intermittent -- and sometimes inconsistent -- efforts to bring about stability, democracy and prosperity in Haiti. The last decade, especially, has seen striking examples of contradictory American policy, and the cumulative result has been economic stagnation and turmoil in Haiti, where more than 40 people have died during an uprising this month. 
 American policy on Haiti in the last 10 years has gone from one extreme to another. The Clinton administration strongly supported the ousted president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, sending 20,000 troops in 1994 to restore him to power. The current administration then cut off all American assistance to the Aristide government while giving advice and moral support to Mr. Aristide's opponents. Entrenched in their own economic and political divisions, Haitians tend to regard politics as an all-or-nothing, life-and-death struggle. The more support one side or the other has received from its partisans in Washington, the less inclined it has been to compromise. 
 If the United States is to help Haiti overcome its crisis through dialogue and reconciliation, therefore, Republicans and Democrats have to reconcile their own differences. And this may indeed be happening.
 Secretary of State Colin Powell ended an apparent administration flirtation with a coup in Haiti, stating clearly on Tuesday that Mr. Aristide should finish his term. The Bush administration has concluded that Mr. Aristide, however flawed he may be, is the only legitimately elected leader in Haiti, and perhaps the sole remaining source of stability. 
 At the same time, Mr. Aristide's American supporters recognize his responsibility for the crisis and would like to see Haiti make a new start. Prominent African-Americans like the Rev. Walter Fauntroy, president of the National Black Leadership Roundtable, have suggested that Mr. Aristide should step down now.
 This convergence of American opinion on Haiti offers the prospect of a more united and thus more effective American approach. The next step should be for leaders on both sides of the aisle to collaborate on a new strategy for Haiti. Such a strategy could be based on these elements: 
 * Mr. Aristide should serve out his term, which expires in 2006. But at the same time, we need to prepare the succession. It will take at least the two years Mr. Aristide has left in office to organize fair elections. Major American and international efforts to do so should begin now.
 * The international community, either the United Nations or the Organization of American States, should administer the balloting, not just offer assistance. No Haitian government will be able to organize elections with even minimal standards of fairness. 
 * Haiti should get much more help. This year the United States will give Baghdad 200 times more economic assistance than it will to Haiti, which is in much worse shape than Iraq even after the invasion. We must pay greater attention to a desperately poor, misgoverned nation in our backyard.
 * Some of this foreign aid should go toward strengthening Haitian institutions. Even the Clinton administration preferred to channel American aid through nongovernmental organizations, fearing that any money given to the Haitian government would be misspent. But no Haitian leader or leaders, however good their intentions, will be able to govern wisely if they have no institutions to rely on. We need to begin now to give Mr. Aristide's successors the wherewithal to govern.
 * The United States should get directly involved in ending the impasse between Mr. Aristide and his opponents. The United Nations, the Organization of American States and the Caribbean Community, an organization of Caribbean states, can all play helpful roles, but only the United States has real influence in Haiti. A unified American stance could have a decisive impact, and a truly bipartisan diplomatic engagement now might still avoid the need for yet another military intervention. 
 It's often said that democracies end up doing the right thing only after having tried all the alternatives. We have tried the alternatives in Haiti and failed. Now we can see if doing the right thing will succeed.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Daniel Bejar)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); COUPS (76%); TRENDS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%) Politics and Government; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; United States International Relations; Elections; Foreign Aid; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: James Dobbins; Jean-Bertrand (Pres) Aristide

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (50%) UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (95%); IRAQ (79%) Haiti; Haiti

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



437 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Construction Of Housing Is Off 7.9%

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Housing construction in January declined by the largest amount in nearly a year as bad winter weather played havoc with the plans of builders.
 The Commerce Department reported yesterday that the number of residential buildings under way dropped to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.90 million units, representing a sharp 7.9 percent drop from 2.07 million units in December. The December pace was the strongest since February 1984. 
 The number of building permits, a sign of future activity, decreased 2.8 percent last month. Permits were up 6.9 percent from last year, however. 
 Although economists were predicting a slowdown in January from the levels of December, last month's performance was weaker than the pace of around two million units that analysts had forecast. Still, even with the decline, the pace of residential construction in January was still fairly brisk, rising 4.1 percent from January 2003.
 The 7.9 percent decline reported for overall housing construction in January was the steepest decline since February 2003.
 Builders say that February might turn out to be lackluster, too. Harsh winter weather in some parts of the country was partly to blame for builders expressing less optimism about sales prospects for February, according to a monthly survey by the National Association of Home Builders. The survey also found that builders are feeling less confident about sales prospects over the next six months.
 ''Cold weather had an impact on the U.S. housing market last month, although underlying activity may finally be simmering down from red-hot levels,'' said Sherry Cooper, chief economist at BMO Nesbitt Burns.
 The housing market -- throughout the economic slump and the recovery -- has been the economy's shining star, providing a source of support for business growth. Economists predict that housing activity will be less of a contributor to growth this year but that the sector will stay healthy.
 Home sales reached record high levels in 2003, powered by low mortgage rates. Sales of both existing homes and new ones should have their second best year ever in 2004 -- even with an expected rise in mortgage rates, economists said.
 The average rate on a 30-year mortgage last week dipped to 5.66 percent. Some economists predict that the rate will rise to around 6.5 percent by the end of this year.
 By region, housing construction in the Midwest plunged by 21 percent in January from December, to an annual rate of 319,000 units. In the Northeast, residential activity slowed to a pace of 148,000 units, a 14 percent drop from December's level. Housing starts in the South declined 5.2 percent in January, to a rate of 918,000 and in the West they dipped by 1 percent, to a pace of 518,000.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Housing Construction''New private housing started and permits authorized during the month, in millions, at seasonally adjusted annual rates.Jan.Starts: 1.903Permits: 1.899Graph tracks the number of new private housing started and permits authorized from Aug. 2002 - Jan. 04.(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (94%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (86%); MORTGAGE LOANS (85%); BUILDING PERMITS (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); SALES & SELLING (71%) Housing; Building (Construction); Sales; Housing

COMPANY: BMO NESBITT BURNS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) Commerce Department; National Assn of Home Builders

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



438 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Extends Alternative Fuel Regulation

BYLINE: By FARA WARNER

 BODY:
The Department of Transportation said on Wednesday that it had extended a regulation that rewards car makers for building more vehicles that can run primarily on ethanol as well as on gasoline. The regulation, adopted in 1988, originally was set to run through the 2004 model year.
 Environmental advocates criticized the decision, saying that the Bush administration already knew it would tend to increase gasoline consumption, not help to lower it, as originally intended. 
 The regulation helps automakers comply with federal fuel economy standards for their fleets by granting them what is known as the dual-fuel credit, an incentive to build vehicles that can run on a fuel other than gasoline or diesel -- usually a blend consisting mainly of ethanol. 
 The credit allows the manufacturers to calculate the fuel economy of such vehicles using a more favorable formula than the one for ordinary vehicles, on the assumption that the alternative fuel would occasionally be used in them. By adding these vehicles to their overall mix of cars and trucks, a company can improve its corporate average fuel economy, without having to redesign their conventional vehicles to get better mileage. 
 For the model years 2005 through 2008, the boost that a carmaker can give its average fuel economy through use of the dual-fuel credit is limited to 0.9 miles per gallon; previously the ceiling had been 1.2 miles per gallon. 
 The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said in a statement that the Department of Transportation extended the incentive in part to decrease the nation's dependence on foreign oil. But environmental groups said that the government's own studies show that the credit has the opposite effect, because so few dual-fuel vehicles are ever actually run on the ethanol blend, while the credit allows manufacturers to make and sell more large and inefficient conventional vehicles than they otherwise could. 
 ''Automakers get a phony fleetwide mileage credit of nearly one mile per gallon for vehicles that almost never run on alternative fuels,'' said David Doniger, policy director of the climate center at the Natural Resources Defense Council in Washington. 
 In a report to Congress in March 2002 on the effects of the dual-fuel credit, the administration found that only 1 percent of dual-fuel vehicles actually use the alternative fuels they are capable of burning, in part because fewer than 200 of the 176,000 gasoline stations in the country offer the ethanol blend. 
 Using various assumptions about what percentage of dual-fuel vehicles would use their alternative fuel in the future, the study found that extending the credit would result in consumption of 9 billion to 14 billion more gallons of gasoline over the next four years. ''In all cases, the amount of petroleum used and the amount of greenhouse gases produced increases when the credit is extended to 2008,'' the report said.
 Since the credit was instituted in 1988 under the Alternative Motor Fuels Act, which was meant to create a viable mass market for alternative fuels, some 3.4 million dual-fuel vehicles have been produced. But critics say the incentives were applied to the wrong aspect of the problem. 
 ''You can make as many of these alternative fuel vehicles as you want,'' Mr. Doniger said. ''But until you bring the cost of ethanol down and make it easier to refuel, they won't make a difference.'' 
 In the release announcing the extension of the credit, the highway safety agency said it expected the move to give ''Congress, other federal agencies, regional authorities, and the private sector ample time to identify, adopt and implement measures to enhance the alternative fuel infrastructure.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (93%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); ETHANOL (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); CONSUMPTION (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); CLIMATOLOGY (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); GREENHOUSE GASES (50%) Automobiles; Fuel Efficiency; Ethanol; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Diesel Power; Automobiles

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (93%); NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (82%) Transportation Department; National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

PERSON: Fara Warner; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



439 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Delays Price Report

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 18 

 BODY:
The Labor Department said on Wednesday that the January Producer Price Index report, originally scheduled for release on Thursday, would not be released this week. 
 A spokesman for the department's Bureau of Labor Statistics said he could not provide a release date for the report, but said it would not be released before Monday. The spokesman said the report could not be released this week because numerous other reports were scheduled for release. 
 The bureau had said on Tuesday that it would postpone the report. 
 The bureau will issue weekly jobless claims on Thursday, and on Friday will issue January Consumer Price Index and Real Earnings. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCER PRICES (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (88%); STATISTICS (87%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (82%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Producer Price Index

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%) Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



440 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Russia Told It Understates Dependence On Oil Sales

BYLINE: By ERIN E. ARVEDLUND

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Feb. 17 

 BODY:
Russia's economy is more deeply dependent on oil and gas than previously thought, with energy making up an estimated 25 percent of output instead of the 9 percent attributed to it in Russia's own accounts, the World Bank said on Wednesday in an economic report.
 Russia's greater dependence on oil also meant that the country's extremely successful recovery is ''much more vulnerable to fluctuations in international oil prices,'' Christof Ruehl, chief economist for the World Bank in Moscow, said at a news conference here. 
 Since the United States-led invasion of Iraq, oil prices have been climbing. Brent crude oil for March delivery rose to $35.88 a barrel on Wednesday, its highest level since Jan. 20. 
 Russia's economy grew 7.2 percent in 2003, and Mr. Ruehl said that roughly 3.2 percentage points of that growth came from oil revenues.
 Officials at Russia's state statistics committee could not be reached for comment after business hours.
 Mr. Ruehl said the reason for the discrepancy between the report's estimate and the official accounts was that many large Russian oil companies sell oil at low prices to affiliated or shell companies, which export the fuel at much higher world prices, and then book the profits. The practice, known as transfer pricing, is one way oil and gas companies avoid paying higher federal taxes, he added.
 Official figures are thus distorted, giving greater weight to the resellers as services, and less weight to energy producers, the World Bank report said.
 Some economists agreed that oil represented a much bigger slice of Russia's gross domestic product. 
 ''Actually, it is not a surprise,'' said Vladislav Oreshkin, an economist with the United Financial Group investment bank in Moscow. ''But I don't agree with the conclusion that the service sector is not expanding and cannot be the economy's future engine.'' 
 Mr. Oreshkin pointed out that services as a share of Russia's gross domestic product stabilized at about 50 percent from 1997 to 2001 and then rose to 54 percent in 2002, a year when the price of Brent oil grew less than 1 percent.
 ''It couldn't be that the service sector expanded due to transfer pricing'' by oil and gas companies, Mr. Oreshkin said. ''Quite the opposite, it was a real expansion of services.'' He added that Russia's official statistics agencies still have huge problems putting a value on the country's ''gray economy,'' or businesses that do not exist officially. 
 Mr. Ruehl did note that Russia's economic boom has started to lift millions of people above poverty. The percentage of Russians living in poverty dropped to 22 percent, or about 31 million people, in 2003, from 27 percent in 2002.
 ''Russia's higher growth has finally reached the poor,'' Mr. Ruehl said. 
 Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, has vowed to pull Russia out of its economic collapse at the end of the 1990's. To a large extent, he has succeeded: in 1998, Russia defaulted on its debt and devalued the ruble, but from 1999 to 2003, Mr. Putin's first term, Russia's economy rebounded 38 percent, Mr. Ruehl said. 
 Despite the success story, a concentration of ownership in oil and gas companies and the lack of economic diversification suggest there is much reform work to be done, Mr. Ruehl added.
 ''Higher oil prices are actually leading to complacency, and slowing further reforms,'' he said. ''Why not do it now when the money is there?'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); POVERTY RATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (73%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: World Bank

PERSON: Christof Ruehl; Erin E Arvedlund

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (89%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



441 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7; SMALL BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Selling a Family Enterprise: Tough to Decide and to Do

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
When a competitor approached him about acquiring his family's plumbing supply business in Worcester, Mass., Charles Manoog reluctantly concluded that it was time to sell. His father, Russell, was in his late 60's, and Mr. Manoog wanted to end the differences they were having over how to run the company, which was founded by his grandfather in 1927.
 If that decision was painful, the next one was perplexing: how, exactly, to go about selling it? The most important question was how to set a fair price, but Mr. Manoog also needed help managing the taxes on the proceeds. ''It was very, very stressful,'' he recalled.
 As it is for thousands of entrepreneurs every year who put businesses on the block. As the baby boom generation reaches retirement age, consultants and academics say, the numbers will swell. 
 Of the 1,143 family-owned businesses surveyed last year by the MassMutual Financial Group and the Raymond Family Business Institute in Alfred, N.Y., 39 percent said they planned to change leadership within the next five years.
 There are more than four million family-owned businesses in the United States, most of them employing fewer than 10 people each.
 It is not just demographics driving the trend. Many families postponed selling businesses in a stumbling economy, and now want to play catch-up in a rebounding one. ''There is a lot of pent-up demand to sell,'' said David S. Lobel, managing partner of Sentinel Capital Partners, which specializes in buying small and midsize privately owned companies.
 Many of those sellers are going to face the same concerns Mr. Manoog did -- finding a buyer who not only will pay what they regard as a reasonable price but will also respect their other interests, from protecting employees' jobs to supporting a favorite local charity. Often, they want to negotiate a role for themselves, too, whether as a salaried manager or a paid consultant.
 But few business owners give these matters much thought in the day-to-day hurly-burly of running their companies, experts say. ''Most people are too busy building a business to think about selling it,'' said Tom L. Ogburn Jr., a management professor and director of the Family Business Center at Wake Forest University. ''We're getting ready to see a fairly significant change in ownership, and most people are not prepared.''
 The MassMutual survey found that most business owners who plan to retire within five years have not laid out what will happen to the company after they leave. Whether a business owner is retiring, planning his estate or moving on to another challenge, neglecting to plan the sale of a company usually means he will not receive full value for it, experts say. And being unprepared may push a business owner to sell before being ready, or to sell to someone who will change the business in ways the seller will regret.
 ''Before you go about selling a business, you have to determine if selling a business will get you what you want,'' said Ken Preston, a clinical professor of management and entrepreneurship at the Stern School of Business at New York University. ''Just because someone has offered a lot of money may not be enough by itself.''
 Among the basic questions that founders or owners should ask themselves is whether they want to leave the company after the sale, or stay. If they stay, do they want to stay in charge or work under someone else? Do they want the buyer to guarantee jobs for longtime employees or for the seller's relatives who work in the company? Do they want the new owner to continue to support the charities the business has traditionally helped?
 The answers to these questions not only affect the personal satisfaction with the sale, but also how much the seller might get for a business.
 Mr. Lobel, for example, said that a business's value to him was linked to the amount of freedom he had to change it quickly. He said he generally aimed to resell companies within five years of buying them.
 ''If a guy wants to give you the key and walk away, that is very different than if he wants to stay involved,'' Mr. Lobel said. Owners who remain at their companies after selling them -- or restrict whether buyers can lay off workers or sell or close parts of the business -- usually have to sell for less, he said.
 Privacy is another concern. Potential buyers are naturally going to want to review the books, check inventory, talk to customers and otherwise poke around a business they are considering buying. ''You are going to have to open up and let someone traipse through your business,'' Mr. Lobel said.
 Many entrepreneurs could not care less; they are suited to welcoming all interested parties to look over their books and then auctioning off the business, he said. They usually get higher prices, he added. Sellers who find the due-diligence experience unsettling -- if they have exaggerated profits to their bank's loan officer, for example, or understated them to a former spouse's divorce lawyer -- should narrow the field of potential buyers to one, two or three so that fewer eyes need to pry, Mr. Lobel and others suggest, even if that reduces the sale price.
 In any case, several advisers said, small-business owners should not sell reflexively simply because a bigger competitor is coming to the area. Many local hardware stores, for example, have been able to thrive in the shadow of a Home Depot or Lowe's warehouse outlet.
 ''If a small business has built up a lot of good will and served customers well, it is very hard to crush a company,'' Professor Preston said. ''Small and midsize businesses sometimes worry too much about competition. I don't think they should worry as much about big companies as service the customer better.''
 Once a business owner has decided to sell and has settled on whether to hold an auction or negotiate with a selected number of potential buyers, advisers are almost unanimous in their advice:
 $(6$)Get an independent appraisal of the business.
 $(6$)Hire an outsider -- a specialist consultant, a lawyer or a certified public accountant -- to handle the talks.
 $(6$)Decide if an offer is a legitimate bid or just a fishing expedition by a rival seeking proprietary information to use against you.
 $(6$)Determine why a suitor wants the company. If it is to get you, decide if you are willing to work for someone else.
 $(6$)Hire lawyers and accountants to structure the deal to minimize taxes.
 $(6$)Be wary of accepting stock instead of cash in payment.
 Mr. Manoog first hired a broker who advertised in a newspaper, but he was not happy with the broker's work. So he shopped around for an adviser and settled on the chief financial officer of a manufacturing company in Worcester. ''Because we are a small local firm, we needed someone who knew our business, knew us and knew our place in the town,'' Mr. Manoog said. While the process took longer than expected -- 18 months, ending last month -- he is satisfied with the results.
 ''I was looking for a place to join, both me and my co-workers, to provide for our futures,'' he said. ''I've found it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Manoog in the display room of his family's plumbing supply business in Worcester, Mass. Selling such a business can turn out to be extremely stressful. (Photo by Michael Dwyer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY COMPANIES (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); FAMILY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (88%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); RETIREMENT AGE (73%); TRENDS (72%); CHARITIES (70%); BABY BOOMERS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Small Business; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Stress (Human); Small Business

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (56%); SENTINEL CAPITAL PARTNERS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: MassMutual Financial Group; Raymond Family Business Institute

INDUSTRY: NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (56%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: Charles Manoog; Mark A Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: WORCESTER, MA, USA (88%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



442 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2; Economic Scene

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Far from a 'curse,' natural resources can form the basis for economic growth.

BYLINE: By Jeff Madrick. 
Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine, and he teaches at Cooper Union and New School University. His new book is ''Why Economies Grow,'' from Basic Books and the Century Foundation. E-mail: challenge@mesharpe.com.

 BODY:
A POPULAR notion in economics today is that an abundance of natural resources is a ''curse'' for developing nations. Such an endowment, it is argued, encourages corruption, undermines institutional development, pushes the value of a currency uncompetitively high and cannot support long-term growth because the reserves eventually run out. Small wonder, then, that oil-rich nations like Iraq and Venezuela are poor or in decline. 
 Gavin Wright will have none of this. Mr. Wright, an economic historian at Stanford and long a specialist in the role that natural resources play in economic growth, agrees that overdependence on a single resource can lead to poor policies, but it is by no means inevitable. To the contrary, many developed and developing nations have used their mineral resources as springboards to wealth and broader-based development -- not least the United States itself. 
 Mr. Wright and a colleague, Jesse Czelusta, have written a fascinating study (at www-econ.stanford.edu) on the subject that should be required reading. The lessons to be drawn are especially pertinent for countries like Iraq. 
 The economists start their analysis by looking at the evidence compiled by advocates of the resource curse. The seminal study was done by Jeffrey D. Sachs and Andrew M. Warner in 1995 and showed a strong statistical relationship between resource abundance and slow growth. 
 Many follow-up studies using the same method draw remarkably sweeping conclusions about the inevitable disadvantages of resource abundance. One recent study explicitly concludes that poor institutional development, including weak governance and property laws, is ''intrinsic'' to nations with oil and other minerals. Mr. Sachs and Mr. Warner have recently concluded that the curse is a ''reasonably solid fact.'' 
 But Mr. Wright and Mr. Czelusta point out that almost every one of these studies uses the proportion of exports of the particular natural resource as a proxy for a nation's mineral abundance. Among other obvious problems with this measure, a high proportion of resource exports may simply reflect a lack of other kinds of exports, which is almost a definition of underdevelopment in the first place. 
 A better measure of abundance would be resources per capita or per worker. New studies using such measures, including one by the World Bank economist William F. Maloney, published in Economia, can find no telling relationship between abundance of reserves and slow growth. Some nations do well with their endowments, others do not. 
 Why is that? Historical and contemporary case studies provide some guidance. America's own rise to economic supremacy in the late 1800's occurred just as it was becoming the leading producer of almost every major natural resource of the industrial age, including iron ore, lead, coal, copper, zinc, timber, zinc and nickel. Such leadership did not hold America back, nor did it hold back other nations like Australia and Canada. Britain, where the industrial revolution started, was notably rich in coal reserves, not to mention wool for its critical textile industry. 
 But what is most relevant to policy, America did not become a leader simply because it had been endowed by nature with this bounty of resources, as we are typically taught in our high school textbooks. Nor was it because it enjoyed enlightened governance in the 1800's, like open and free markets and clear-cut rules about property ownership. In fact, millions of acres of coal mines in the 1800's were secretly bought as farmland. Enormous tracts of iron-rich land were bought cheaply through fraudulent claims under the Homestead Act. 
 Rather, as Mr. Wright and another Stanford economic historian, Paul A. David, convincingly summarize in a 1997 paper, the nation invested heavily in mineral exploration, new techniques and mining education. Other industries received spillover benefits from new technologies, the low costs of natural resources and a technically trained labor force. 
 Public investment was especially important. For example, the 1879 United States Geological Survey, a detailed mapping of reserves and potential reserves, was critical to development. Many state colleges offered mining degrees by the 1890's, including the University of California at Berkeley. 
 But does such analysis apply to today's developing nations? 
 Mr. Wright and Mr. Czelusta point out that some Latin American nations, like Chile, Peru and Brazil, developed mineral resources through concerted efforts at investment and development. 
 As for cases like Venezuela, often cited as a leading example of the resource curse, advocates of the curse thesis argue that oil contributed to a debt-driven boom that was bound to deter growth eventually. But overborrowing was hardly unique to resource-dependent nations in the 1970's and 1980's. Nations like the United States and Japan, for example, also overborrowed in this period. 
 Natural resource reserves also do not necessarily provide only short-term advantages. 
 Mr. Wright and Mr. Czelusta contend that natural resource reserves are rarely depleted as rapidly as expected. New mining methods are discovered, as are processes that make more economical use of lesser grades. Australia's reserve base has expanded, for example, even as its production has increased sharply in a variety of minerals. 
 Clearly, there are limits to exploration and development, but they are not as severe as has often been thought. Environmental degradation also limits such growth, but Mr. Wright argues that, again, new processes have minimized and even reversed harmful effects. He contends that reserves can consistently be expanded even while being attentive to environmental concerns.
 An important lesson for Iraq is that American-led policies should honestly follow American historical example. They should assure that there is large and broad Iraqi ownership in oil development that will encourage continuing and aggressive local investment in technology, research and expanding education. Good governance, which these days too often means only open markets, low taxes and direct foreign investment, is not a guarantor of success. 
 One interesting proposal along these lines, by the economist Thomas Palley, formerly of the Open Society Institute, is to siphon off Iraq's oil revenues and distribute them to individual citizens as well as to local governments. 
 If exploited wisely, resource abundance can be turned into a growth industry that provides a solid and even long-term foundation for economic growth. This is hardly a curse.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Repairing a storage tank in Bayji, Iraq. Economic history can offer guidance to nations like Iraq on using ample natural resources as a springboard to broad-based wealth. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); TRENDS (77%); CASE STUDIES (77%); HISTORY (75%); MINES & MINING (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Third World and Developing Countries; Natural Resources

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) Stanford University; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: Jeff Madrick; Gavin Wright; Jesse Czelusta; William F Maloney

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



443 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: A Channel Fades to Black, Swimming in Red Ink

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Two sports television channels with different ambitions but a similar subject were started last year.
 The NFL Network began with the backing of the powerful league and the cinematic acumen of NFL Films. Immediately, it was beamed nationwide to DirecTV's 11.4 million satellite subscribers.
 The Football Network started last September with a mandate to be all things pigskin, and its hiring of Pat Summerall provided credibility. But it received only spotty cable carriage, having been available in only a few states, mainly Louisiana, and quickly burned through its insufficient financing, went off the air in mid-December and furloughed most of its 75 workers. 
 And while it is seeking new investment, its survival is doubtful.
 The network, which was set up in Baton Rouge because of an investment package from the state of Louisiana, left employees and freelancers without promised back pay and thousands of dollars in credit-card debt for unreimbursed expenses like car rentals and housing.
 ''They put me in a huge bind,'' said Victoria Risch, a freelance graphics producer who said she was owed $12,000. ''I can barely make my rent. I'm contemplating going to work in a mall.''
 The network needs new investors to repay workers, vendors and Louisiana Public Broadcasting, which it owes $600,000 to rent its studios, and to restart. Jerry Solomon, the president of the network, said he would not want to restart it without at least $15 million.
 ''I'm sure people are as frustrated as I am,'' said Solomon, a former president of the sports marketing company ProServ, who is married to the figure skater Nancy Kerrigan. ''I guarantee not one of them is owed as much as I am. But if this succeeds, they'll make more money than they are owed.''
 Starting a sports network is risky. It requires finding a niche that cable operators need to fill, plus financing of $75 million to $100 million. Deep-pocketed leagues can afford to start an NFL Network or NBA TV.
 A network like College Sports Television, which carries a broad swath of collegiate games and studio programming, had $50 million from investors in the bank before its beginning last April. 
 Another proposed network, the Ice Channel, once hoped to be on the air as early as last fall, but it has deferred its startup until early next year.
 ''You can't rush through on your own timetable,'' Jay Rosenstein, the Ice Channel's president, said. ''You have to be aware of the strategic timetable of investors, cable systems and advertisers.''
 To begin operations, the Football Network raised $9.2 million from private investors and another $1.25 million in a deal for equity with the state of Louisiana. The state crafted a plan that would provide the channel with tax credits for creating jobs; it paid $2 million for studio equipment that was leased from the local public broadcasting station.
 Don Hutchinson, secretary of the state's department of economic development, said that the decision to invest in the Football Network was not based on its own analysis of the network's viability or financing. Instead, he said, the state relied on an investor's due diligence, the Bon Carre Business Center.
 The Football Network's plan was to feed what it believed was the football fan's insatiable pigskin appetite -- without N.F.L. or Division I-A college games.
 Its diet consisted of Division I-AA, high school, flag, women's and Canadian Football League games, and fantasy football and news programs, which had no N.F.L. highlights. 
 ''We knew we'd put on a lot of games the football fan would like to see,'' said Solomon, who added that informational and fantasy programs were the channel's lifeblood.
 Still, producing the estimated 70 games became a financial drain, costing an estimated $2.5 million, a former executive said.
 Solomon played down the suggestion that the network had significantly overspent on games. But another executive, Rick Gentile, the senior vice president for production, said: ''We shouldn't have done all the games. But the attitude from management, not just Jerry, was that money was coming in, investors were interested.''
 The network spent heavily to look more mature than it was, to impress investors and the few viewers watching in Louisiana and other states, some served by Cox Cable. 
 ''No question mistakes were made, but they were aggressive mistakes,'' the announcer Paul Crane, one of the few remaining employees, said.
 The network, Gentile said, a former executive producer at CBS Sports, did not want to slow down for fear that it would scare away investors.
 But the Football Network's seed money of $10.4 million was running out. Some employees were not being paid on time. Employees found that they were liable for Enterprise Rent-A-Car bills that the network would or could not pay. Freelancers threatened not to do their jobs if checks were not immediately paid.
 Jerry Glanville spent three enjoyable months as a game and studio analyst -- except for absence of full payment. ''It's enough to put you into 'O.W.' -- open weeping,'' he said.
 In mid-December, the Football Network went off the air. About a dozen laid-off young employees who were not being paid went to work on the expansion of the building the network is housed in. And a Division I-AA all-star game created by the network and scheduled for Dec. 30 was canceled.
 ''When I kept saying it was time to pay the bills, I didn't like the answers,'' Craig Tartasky, a former network executive who organized the game, said. ''Finally, it came time to pay one particular bill, they said they couldn't and I resigned.''
 The Football Network got a small lifeline last week, months after the dormant channel needed it: a deal with Time Warner Cable that lets the network ask individual systems to carry it.
 Meanwhile, Solomon believes that the lessons of the failed first go-round will make a restart easier. ''We've had the benefit of a very high end dress rehearsal,'' he said.
 But, one freelancer, Raquel Clendenning, who said she was owed $1,300, said, ''Who'd invest in a company that's already in a hole?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jerry Solomon at last May's introduction of the Football Network. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); SPORTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (74%); BACK PAY (74%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); ICE SKATING (63%); TAX LAW (60%); PERSONAL DEBT (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



444 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2; Corrections

LENGTH: 82 words

 BODY:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about a column on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times by the United Auto Workers and the Sierra Club, opposing a plan by the Bush administration to overhaul fuel economy rules, omitted comment from the government. Rae Tyson, a spokesman for the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, said that the proposals were at an early stage and that suggestions are being sought from all parties, including the union and environmental groups.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (87%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (86%) Automobiles; Correction Stories; Fuel Efficiency

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (84%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (84%); NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (83%) National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; United Automobile Workers

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



445 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Internet: More Action Taken Against Spammers

BYLINE: Reuters

 BODY:
The Internet providers America Online and EarthLink said separately yesterday that they had taken further legal steps to pursue Internet spammers who inundate their members with unwanted e-mail. AOL said it had sued a company in Florida that had been dismissed from a lawsuit filed in Virginia, while EarthLink said it had uncovered the operators behind a multistate ring responsible for some 250 million spam messages. Both announcements advance antispam cases filed last year, as Internet providers struggle to stem the tide of get-rich-quick schemes, offers for sexual aids and other unsolicited bulk messages that now account for more than half of all e-mail traffic. AOL, a division of Time Warner, initially sued Connor Miller Software in April 2003, but a federal judge said in December that Virginia courts did not have jurisdiction over the company, which is based in Winter Garden, Fla. In a suit filed in federal court in Orlando, Fla., AOL charged that Connor Miller helped a client inundate AOL members with 35 million spam messages for low-interest mortgage rates. The company also developed software to help the client evade AOL antispam filters, the suit said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMAIL MARKETING (93%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LITIGATION (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); JURISDICTION (77%); JUDGES (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); MORTGAGE RATES (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) Computers and the Internet; Suits and Litigation; Electronic Mail; Computer Software

COMPANY: AOL INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Time Warner Inc; Earthlink Inc; Connor Miller Software

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (91%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



446 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Hardware: Applied Materials Posts Income Of $82.4 Million

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Applied Materials, the world's biggest maker of computer-chip production equipment, said yesterday that first-quarter net income was $82.4 million, as chip makers ordered more machines to meet rising demand. Excluding some costs, profit was 12 cents a share, beating analysts' predictions of 8 cents, based on the average of 27 estimates taken by Thomson Financial. Sales increased 48 percent, to $1.56 billion, the company, based in Santa Clara, Calif., said. Orders rose 32 percent from the fourth quarter, to $1.68 billion, beating the company's forecast for a 20 percent gain. Rising demand for parts for electronics ranging from mainframe computers to cellphones will probably end three years of declining sales at Applied Materials. Shares of Applied Materials rose to $23.52 in extended trading. The stock rose 37 cents, to $22.31, in regular trading. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (88%); FACTORY ORDERS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (87%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: APPLIED MATERIALS INC (92%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Applied Materials Inc

TICKER: AMAT (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333242 SEMICONDUCTOR MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



447 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Administration Backs Off Specific Forecast on Jobs

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 18 

 BODY:
The Bush administration backed away on Wednesday from a forecast it made public only last week predicting average job gains of more than 300,000 a month for 2004 but said it remained confident of robust though unspecified job growth for the year.
 In two news briefings, the White House press secretary, Scott McClellan, repeatedly declined to endorse the forecast, which was in the Economic Report of the President, a 417-page book sent to Congress last week under Mr. Bush's signature. 
 ''The president is not a statistician,'' Mr. McClellan said at one point. 
 Asked why he would not stand behind the forecast, Mr. McClellan replied: ''I think what the president stands behind is the policies that he is implementing, the policies that he is advocating. That's what's important.''
 The shift opened the door to an attack by Democrats, who said that as the presidential campaign heated up the administration was being forced to acknowledge that its economic prescription of tax cuts and free trade had failed to generate the jobs Mr. Bush had promised.
 A day after Treasury Secretary John W. Snow signaled the administration's unease with the specific job-growth predictions by distancing himself from the forecast, the White House tried to avoid being held to a particular figure for employment growth for this year. 
 But it was left scrambling to counter the impression of disarray within its economic team and grappling with a new political headache after weeks in which Mr. Bush's re-election campaign has been knocked off balance by a variety of issues. They include the failure so far to find banned weapons in Iraq and questions about the president's service in the National Guard more than three decades ago.
 Along with the war in Iraq, the economy is sure to be a determining issue in the presidential race, and although the economy is rebounding by many measures, it has so far not generated new jobs in the numbers that would be expected at this stage of a recovery. Mr. Bush, answering a reporter's question in the Oval Office, said the economy was growing and getting stronger, and he cited figures showing that the economy had created 366,000 jobs since last summer. But he did not directly respond to the question of whether the economy was strong enough to meet the projections in his forecast.
 The forecast projected that the average level of nonfarm payroll employment in 2004 would be 132.7 million, up 2.6 million from an average of 130.1 million in 2003. But because the figures were averages for the full year, they implied that employment at the end of 2004 would be substantially higher than 132.7 million, probably around 134 million, economists said. Outside economists calculated that the economy would have to generate an average of at least 300,000 jobs a month this year to meet the forecast, assuming relatively steady employment growth.
 White House officials did not dispute those calculations. But they said their forecast was completed Dec. 2, based on employment data through October, and they suggested it was already out of date by the time the report was published this month. The economy created 83,000 jobs in November, 16,000 in December and 112,000 in January, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, well below the pace necessary to meet the administration's projection.
 ''If you ask what is the official administration projection today, the answer is there hasn't been one since Dec. 2,'' said N. Gregory Mankiw, the chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers. ''We expect a robust job market in 2004.''
 A Republican with close ties to the White House said Mr. Snow and Commerce Secretary Donald H. Evans, who are barnstorming on the West Coast selling the administration's economic policies, had been instructed to distance the administration from the projection. The forecast had provided Democrats a concrete benchmark of the White House's own making against which to measure Mr. Bush's economic record.
 ''They deliberately had Snow back away from the numbers,'' the Republican said. ''Snow was not off the reservation, and neither was Evans.''
 Last week the White House endured another political storm over the economy when Mr. Mankiw said there were economic benefits from the forces that had led some jobs to migrate from the United States to nations with lower labor costs. The White House's reluctance on Wednesday to embrace its own jobs forecast led Democrats to question the foundation of Mr. Bush's economic policy, that sweeping tax cuts would lead to substantial growth in employment.
 ''Apparently, George Bush is the only person left in the country who actually believes the far-fetched promises he's peddling,'' said Senator John Kerry, the front-runner for the Democratic nomination.
 Since Mr. Bush became president, the economy has lost 2.3 million jobs. Mr. Bush has blamed the recession that was beginning as he took office, the terrorist attacks of 2001, the effects of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and corporate scandals.
 But the White House has repeatedly been overoptimistic in its projections. Economists at the Economic Policy Institute and the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, liberal groups often critical of the administration, said in a recent report that while the administration projected last year that average payroll employment for 2003 would rise by 1.7 million above its level for 2002, it declined by more than 400,000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); TAX LAW (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%) Labor; Election Issues; Hiring and Promotion; United States Economy

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Richard W Stevenson; John W (Sec) Snow; Donald L (Sec) Evans; Scott Mcclellan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



448 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: Roots of Pakistan Atomic Scandal Traced to Europe 

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: PARIS, Feb. 18 

 BODY:
The Pakistani scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan has been demonized in the West for selling atomic secrets and equipment around the world, but the trade began in Europe, not Islamabad, according to court documents and experts who monitor proliferation.
 The records show that industry scientists and Western intelligence agencies have known for decades that nuclear technology was pouring out of Europe despite national export control efforts to contain it.
 Many of the names that have turned up among lists of suppliers and middlemen who fed equipment, materials and knowledge to nuclear programs in Pakistan and other aspiring nuclear nations are well-known players in Europe's uranium enrichment industry, a critical part of many nuclear weapons programs. Some have been convicted of illegal exports before.
 The proliferation has its roots in Europe's own postwar eagerness for nuclear independence from the United States and its lax security over potentially lethal technology. It was abetted, critics say, by competition within Europe for lucrative contracts to bolster state-supported nuclear industries. Even as their own intelligence services warned that Pakistan could not be trusted, some European governments continued to help Pakistan's nuclear program. 
 ''It was an economic consideration,'' said Paul Stais, a former Belgian member of the European Parliament who lobbied unsuccessfully for tighter export controls. 
 One name to emerge from the international investigations of Dr. Khan's nuclear trade was that of Urs Tinner, a Swiss engineer who monitored production of centrifuge parts at a factory in Malaysia. The parts were intended for Libya. Mr. Tinner's father, Friedrich Tinner, also an engineer, came under scrutiny by the Defense Department in the 1970's and again by Swiss export control authorities and the International Atomic Energy Agency in the last decade, because he was involved in exports to Pakistan and Iraq of technology used in uranium enrichment. 
 In the 1970's, Friedrich Tinner was in charge of exports at Vakuum-Apparate-Technik, or VAT, when the company was identified by the Defense Department as shipping items with possible nuclear-related uses to Pakistan, according to documents and VAT company officials. He later set up his own company, now called PhiTec AG, which was investigated by the Swiss in 1996 for trying to ship valves for uranium enrichment centrifuges to Iraq. The Tinners were never found to have broken any laws, Swiss officials said. 
''Most of these people were heavily investigated in the 1970's, 80's and 90's,'' said Mark Hibbs, the European editor of the technical journal Nucleonics Week, published by McGraw-Hill.
 The problem began with the 1970 Treaty of Almelo, under which Britain, Germany and the Netherlands agreed to develop centrifuges to enrich uranium jointly, ensuring their nuclear power industry a fuel source independent of the United States. Urenco, or the Uranium Enrichment Company, was established the next year with its primary enrichment plant at Almelo, the Netherlands.
 Security at Urenco was by most accounts slipshod. The consortium relied on a network of research centers and subcontractors to build its centrifuges, and top-secret blueprints were passed out to companies bidding on tenders, giving engineers across Europe an opportunity to appropriate designs.
 Dr. Khan, who worked for a Urenco Dutch subcontractor, Physics Dynamic Research Laboratory, was given access to the most advanced designs, even though he came from Pakistan, which was already known to harbor nuclear ambitions. A 1980 report by the Dutch government on his activities said he visited the Almelo factory in May 1972 and by late 1974 had an office there. 
 After Dr. Khan returned to Pakistan with blueprints and supplier lists for uranium enrichment centrifuges at the end of 1975, American intelligence agencies predicted that he would soon be shopping for the items needed to build the centrifuges for Pakistan's bomb. They soon detected a flow of equipment from Europe to Pakistan as Dr. Khan drew on Urenco's network of suppliers using a trusted group of former schoolmates and friends as agents. 
 The Dutch government report found that in 1976, two Dutch firms exported to Pakistan 6,200 unfinished rotor tubes made of superstrong maraging steel. The tubes are the heart of Urenco's advanced uranium-enriching centrifuges.
 In 1983, a Dutch court convicted Dr. Khan in absentia on charges of stealing the designs, though the conviction was later overturned on a technicality. Nonetheless, in the late 1980's, Belgian ministers led delegations of scientists and businessmen to Pakistan, despite warnings from their own experts that they were meeting with people involved in the military application of nuclear technology. 
 ''Every well-informed person knows the inherent danger of an intense collaboration with a country such as Pakistan,'' wrote Rene Constant, director of Belgium's National Institute of Radioactive Elements in February 1987, chastising Philippe Maystadt, then the country's minister of economic affairs, after one such visit. 
 That same year, despite American warnings to Germany that such a sale was imminent, a German firm exported to Pakistan a plant for the recovery of tritium, a volatile gas used to increase the power of nuclear bombs. The company simply called the plant something else to obtain an export license.
 ''The export control office didn't even inspect the goods,'' said Reinhard Huebner, the German prosecutor who handled the subsequent trial of the company's chief, Rudolf Ortmayers, and Peter Finke, a German physicist who went to Pakistan to train engineers there to operate the equipment. Both men were sentenced to jail for violating export control laws.
 But there were clues that the technology had spread even further: a German intelligence investigation determined that Iraq and possibly Iran and North Korea had obtained uranium-melting expertise stolen from Urenco in 1984, Mr. Hibbs reported in Nucleonics Week several years later. 
 In 1989, two engineers, Bruno Stemmler and Karl Heinz Schaab, who had worked for Germany's MAN New Technology, another Urenco subcontractor, sold plans for advanced uranium enrichment centrifuges to Iraq. They went to Baghdad to help solve problems in making the equipment work.
 In 1991, after the first Iraq war, international inspectors were stunned to discover the extent of Saddam Hussein's hidden program. Mr. Schaab was later convicted of treason but only served a little more than a year in jail. Mr. Stemmler died before he could be tried.
 David Albright, a former weapons inspector for the International Atomic Energy Agency, said he helped retrieve a full set of the blueprints from Iraq after the major combat operations ended last year. United States inspectors have not found evidence that Mr. Hussein had restarted his nuclear program, but Mr. Albright said there were still drawings unaccounted for. 
 ''It's an unnerving issue,'' said Mr. Albright, who is president of the Institute for Science and International Security. ''A lot of nuclear weapons design stuff could be missing in Iraq.'' 
 As recently as last year, German customs agents seized high-tensile-strength aluminum tubes made by a German company and bound for North Korea. The tubes matched the specifications for the housings of Urenco's uranium-enriching centrifuges.
 One name on a list of suppliers to Iran that came to light in recent investigations was Henk Slebos, who studied with Dr. Khan at Delft Technological University in Leuven, Belgium, in the late 1960's. 
 In the early 1980's, Mr. Slebos was arrested for shipping an oscilloscope, used in testing centrifuges, to Dr. Khan in Pakistan. He was convicted and sentenced to a brief prison term in 1985. Mr. Slebos declined to comment for this article.
 In 1998, he withdrew five Pakistan-bound shipments that the Dutch authorities had stopped in the Netherlands, Belgium and Austria because they contained ''dual use'' items, which could be used for uncovventional weapons as well as civilian purposes.
 Last September, Mr. Slebos was among the sponsors of an international symposium on advanced materials in Pakistan organized by Dr. Khan. Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, who was then the Dutch foreign minister and is now NATO's secretary general, told Dutch members of Parliament that Mr. Slebos was still doing business with Dr. Khan, though he did not elaborate.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 21, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about a secretive European network used by the Pakistani scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan for the sale of nuclear technology misstated the location of Delft Technological University, where he once studied. It is in Delft, the Netherlands, not Leuven, Belgium. The article also misspelled the surname of a former Belgian member of the European Parliament who lobbied unsuccessfully for tighter export controls on nuclear technology. He is Paul Staes, not Stais.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Urenco, or the Uranium Enrichment Company, was established in 1971 with its primary enrichment plant at Almelo, the Netherlands. (Photo by Harry Cock/Hollandse Hoogte) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); SCANDALS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CENTRIFUGES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXPORT CONTROLS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); ARMS TRADE (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (78%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); VALUE ADDED TAX (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (74%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (74%); LOBBYING (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (71%); TERRORISM (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (61%) Atomic Weapons; International Trade and World Market; Uranium; Arms Sales Abroad; Intelligence Services; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (55%)

PERSON: Craig S Smith; Abdul Qadeer (Dr) Khan

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); MALAYSIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Pakistan; Europe; Iran; Libya; North Korea; Great Britain; Germany; Pakistan; Netherlands; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



449 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Classified Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
GREGG, DAVID III

 BODY:
 GREGG--David III, 71, senior advisor to and a founder of the Pierce Financial Corporation, a firm handling venture financing for broadcasting companies and other businesses, died February 15 of a cardiac arrest in Richmond, VA, while racing in a regional Masters swim competition. Mr. Gregg also was a founder and chair of the board of Gator Broadcasting Corporation and a director of the Monument Group of Mutual Funds. His Business experience was extensive. After holding earlier leadership positions in Eastman Dillon, Union Securities & Co, and Blyth & Co, Inc, he was appointed in 1973 executive vice president of the newly formed Overseas Private Investment Corporation, an agency of the US government facilitating US investment in developing nations to enhance global economic and social progress toward democratic market - based economies. His interest in overseas development continued in the 1980s when as executive vice president and director of the Pierce International Corporation, he was engaged in financing housing projects in Venezuela and other development efforts in Latin America. Born in NYC and raised in Darien, CT, Mr. Gregg graduated from Deerfield Academy in Massachusetts, from Yale University with a BA in 1955, and from Columbia University Graduate School of Business with a MBA in 1959. He served in the US Army after college. Mr. Gregg was a member of the Mid-Atlantic Venture Capital Association and a former member of the NY Society of Security Analysts. In addition he was a member and former director of the Ontcora Club, a member of the NY Amateur Ski Club, and a member of the Chesapeake Bay Yacht Club. 
An avid amateur athlete, Mr. Gregg enjoyed skiing and tennis and was an active member of the Fairfax County Masters Swim Team, through which he was nationally ranked in top 10 for Masters breaststroke. Mr. Gregg's first marriage to May Foster Bowers ended in divorce. Mr. Gregg lived in Arlington, VA with his wife, Sarah Massengale Gregg, a vice president for Baxter Healthcare Corporation. He is also survived by two children from his first marriage, Tina Gregg Barkstrom, of Richmond, VA, and Dr. David Gregg IV of San Francisco, his brother Arthur of Chapel Hill, NC and two grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at 11:00 am on February 21st at St. Mary's Episcopal Church Arlington, VA. Interment will be in the family plot in Easton, MD. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions in honor of David Gregg may be sent to Deerfield Academy, Alumni Office, Deerfield, MA 01342 or to Yale University, Office of Development, PO Box 805, New Haven, CT 06503-0805 or to Dr. Jim Miller, President, US Masters Swimming Endowment Fund, PO Box 10, Noblesville, IN 46061. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); SWIMMING (89%); SPORTS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); MARRIAGE (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); AMATEUR SPORTS (77%); SKIING (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); ALUMNI (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); ARMIES (54%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (51%); HEALTH CARE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PIERCE FINANCIAL CORP (91%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (71%); BAXTER HEALTHCARE CORP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (64%)

PERSON: JAMES H MILLER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (91%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



450 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: A Canadian Brewer Fights For Market Share in Brazil

BYLINE: By TONY SMITH and BERNARD SIMON; Tony Smith reported from Sao Paulo for this article and Bernard Simon from Toronto.

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Feb. 16 

 BODY:
Officials at Molson Inc., the venerable Canadian brewer, will be keeping a close eye on what Brazilian revelers choose to drink during the Carnival street party beginning Friday.
 Their choice of beer will help determine whether Molson can rescue an ambitious investment that aimed to propel it into the big leagues of global brewers. 
 Since Molson made that investment two years ago, spending $765 million for an 80 percent stake in Cervejarias Kaiser of Sao Paulo, Kaiser has slipped from second to third among Brazilian brewers, and the poor performance in Brazil is hurting the larger company. Molson executives told analysts in late January that they might write down the value of the investment if there was no improvement soon. 
 To try to claw back market share, Kaiser has signed up as the official sponsor of Carnival events throughout the country, including the nationally televised samba parade in Rio de Janeiro. Kaiser will also sponsor Brazilian broadcasts of the Olympic Games in Athens later this year. 
 ''By the time we finish, Kaiser will have a new image that will last in consumers' minds for at least the next three to four years,'' said Washington Olivetto, owner and managing director of the W/Brasil advertising agency in Sao Paulo, which is overseeing the new campaign with an initial annual budget of $60 million.
 Molson, a 218-year-old company based in Montreal, bought into Kaiser after a worldwide search for an investment that would help it break out of its relatively small and slow-growing home market, where its brands have a share of almost 44 percent. 
 ''If you look at the big brewers, they're either in the United States or they go beyond their own frontiers in order to grow,'' said Daniel J. O'Neill, Molson's chief executive. Among those, he said, are Interbrew of Belgium, the Foster's Group of Australia and Heineken, a Dutch group that owns the other 20 percent of Kaiser.
 Brazil is expected to overtake Germany within the next few years as the world's third-biggest beer market, after the United States and China. Kaiser's sales volumes made up 54 percent of Molson's total in the three months to Dec. 31, overtaking its business in Canada. 
 Nevertheless, Kaiser's sales volumes have dropped by almost a quarter in the last year, and the brewery's overall market share in Brazil, the only place it is sold, has shrunk to 12.1 percent, compared with 17 percent at the time of the Molson takeover. 
 ''It must be terribly disappointing because it was a huge stepping out for Molson,'' said Harry Schuhmacher, editor and publisher of Beer Business Daily, a newsletter based in San Antonio.
 Michael Van Aelst, an analyst at CIBC World Markets in Montreal, said that Molson had been aiming for a 20 percent market share in Brazil within five years of the Kaiser takeover. ''I do believe there's potential there, but we haven't seen the potential,'' Mr. Van Aelst said.
 Kaiser's poor performance is compounding the problems of intense price competition and lower volumes in Canada. Molson's net earnings shrank to $43.6 million in its third fiscal quarter, which ended Dec. 31, a 34 percent drop from a year earlier. Sales in the United States make up 7 percent of the total.
 Mr. O'Neill, 51, who speaks Portuguese and worked in Brazil for four years as a marketing executive with Johnson Wax, said of Brazil that ''there's no doubt that the challenge is tough - maybe tougher than I expected.''
 Kaiser's slippage started before Molson bought it, when Brazil's two main brewers merged in 1999 into the giant Companhia de Bebidas das Americas, known as AmBev, which owns Brazil's top three brands, Skol, Brahma and Antarctica, and controls more than 60 percent of the market.
 The slide in market share has accelerated in the last two years as Brazil's economy -- and beer market -- stalled and another rejuvenated competitor, Schincariol, emerged.
 After gradually increasing market share from 5.6 percent in 1996 to 9 percent in 2001, Schincariol last year spent more than $60 million on an aggressive television advertising campaign and sprinted past Kaiser, grabbing 14 percent of the market to 9.6 percent for Kaiser's name brand in January. ''We achieved in three months what we had hoped to achieve in three years,'' Adriano Schincariol, one of the brewer's owners, told the business weekly Istoe Dinheiro recently.
 Analysts at Bear Stearns say Kaiser's problems include its failure to halt a drop in sales in Sao Paulo, Brazil's main consumer market; its distribution through Coca-Cola Femsa, which is a franchisee of the Coca-Cola Company and perhaps not inclined to give top priority to supporting Kaiser's weakened brand; and the success of Schincariol's Nova Schin brand after heavy advertising and the modernization of an important plant in Rio Grande do Sul.
 Kaiser's chief executive, Robert Coallier, takes solace from the fact that Schincariol's surge seems to have stolen more sales from AmBev than from Kaiser. 
 Since arriving in Brazil 18 months ago from Molson Canada, Mr. Coallier has streamlined Kaiser's operations, reducing the number of plants from 13 to 9 and cutting operating costs by more than $40 million.
 ''We've changed as a group over the past 18 months,'' he said. ''From the foundations up, we checked what needed to be reinforced, and reinforced it.''
 To address its distribution problems, Kaiser has hired 1,200 sales people dedicated to its own brands, half of them in Sao Paulo, and has renegotiated its agreement with Femsa. While the Coke franchisee, the largest Coke distributor in Latin America, will continue to distribute Kaiser products in Sao Paulo, Kaiser will train and manage the sales force.
 Molson also shifted Kaiser's advertising account from Bates Brasil to W/Brasil and gave the Kaiser brand a fresh ad campaign. 
 ''Our task is to grow market share by several percentage points, solid percentage points,'' said Mr. Olivetto, the W/Brasil executive. ''Of course it's easy to win market share by spending madly, but we won't be doing that. Our brief is to win back market share for keeps.''
 Analysts say that they are looking to see if Kaiser can get Coca-Cola Femsa to distribute its beer quickly and efficiently and if the new sales force can wean the company off low-margin supermarket sales by increasing sales to bars and restaurants, particularly in Sao Paulo.
 ''It will be tough, but I think they have the clout to do it midterm,'' said Sergio Oliveira, a consumer goods analyst at the Sao Paulo office of the A.T. Kearney consultancy. ''There's a major group behind them and they are refocusing, investing in the name, in the brand.'' 
 In spite of recent talk of a possible write-off, Mr. O'Neill says success in Brazil is still assured, though it may be delayed. By the time Carnival is over at the end of this month, he said, ''we'll be firing on all cylinders.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Daniel J. O'Neill, chief executive of Molson, in Rio de Janeiro last year. (Photo by Zoran Milich)(pg. W7)
 Molson put its hopes for global growth in Kaiser, a Brazilian beer. (Photo by Kaiser)(pg. W1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET SHARE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BREWERIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); TAKEOVERS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); BUDGETS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); OLYMPICS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%) Alcoholic Beverages; Beer; International Trade and World Market; Sales; Alcoholic Beverages

COMPANY: MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (96%); HEINEKEN HOLDING NV (74%); FOSTER'S GROUP LTD (53%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Molson Inc; Cervejarias Kaiser

TICKER: TAP (NYSE) (96%); HEIO (AMS) (74%); HEIA (AMS) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (96%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (96%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: Tony Smith; Bernard Simon

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (91%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%) QUEBEC, CANADA (73%) BRAZIL (99%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); BELGIUM (67%); GERMANY (52%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



451 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1; BASEBALL

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Red Sox Draw Line, and Yankees Cross It

BYLINE: By JACK CURRY

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla., Feb. 18 

 BODY:
George Steinbrenner snapped at a stadium official on Wednesday to help him figure out how to get the elevator to travel to the fourth floor at Legends Field. He berated a Yankees official for failing to get him the Top 10 list for ''Late Show With David Letterman'' earlier so he could study it, and he was blustery in staff meetings.
 But Steinbrenner saved his most ferocious verbal darts for the Boston Red Sox and John Henry, their principal owner. Anyone who thinks that the angry rivalry between the Yankees and the Red Sox cannot be spicier has been sleeping for the last few days, and especially Wednesday. 
 Shortly after Henry sent an e-mail message to reporters stating that the Yankees' stunning acquisition of Alex Rodriguez proved that baseball's economic system is ''woefully out of whack'' and that the Yankees have ''gone so insanely far beyond'' the financial capabilities of other teams, Steinbrenner treated Henry as if he were managing the Yankees and had lost four straight to the Red Sox.
 In a statement that public relations officials gave to reporters, Steinbrenner accomplished a lot in four sentences. He ridiculed Henry for failing to complete a trade with the Texas Rangers for Rodriguez, he criticized Henry for not working harder to satisfy the Red Sox fans, he berated Henry for blaming the Yankees for Boston's problems, and he advised Henry to stop being a sore loser.
 Steinbrenner was basking in the glow of the Rodriguez trade during the day, but as far as the Henry comment went, ''George was hot about this one,'' said one Yankees official who had spent time with him.
 The Red Sox spent several weeks trying to get Rodriguez from Texas, then let the trade die over about $15 million in deferred payments that they had sought.
 The Red Sox had voted in favor of the current revenue-sharing system in Major League Baseball; the Yankees were the only team that voted against it. The Red Sox were sensitive when the Oakland Athletics mentioned the sizable difference between their clubs' payrolls during the postseason. But now the Red Sox are grousing about the Yankees.
 Henry is irked that the Yankees got Rodriguez at a reasonable price, about $16 million a year, after the Rangers paid $67 million of the $179 million left on his contract. The Yankees wound up pursuing Rodriguez after third baseman Aaron Boone seriously injured his knee, and they consummated the trade in less than a week. The Yankees got the premier player in baseball to agree to switch to third from shortstop.
 ''Baseball doesn't have an answer for the Yankees,'' Henry wrote in his e-mail message, The Associated Press reported. ''Revenue sharing can only accomplish so much. At some point, it becomes confiscation. It has not and will not solve what is a very obvious problem.''
 Steinbrenner, who has never been faced with a debate he did not relish, was irritated that an owner would complain about his financial approach.
 The Yankees will have a payroll of about $180 million in 2004, easily the highest in baseball. But the Red Sox payroll will probably be about $125 million, which is second. (The New York Times Company is a minority partner of the Red Sox ownership group.) 
 Steinbrenner could not resist offering a statement critical of Henry, who was once a limited partner of the Yankees. 
 ''We understand that John Henry must be embarrassed, frustrated and disappointed by his failure in this transaction,'' Steinbrenner said. ''Unlike the Yankees, he chose not to go the extra distance for his fans in Boston. It is understandable, but wrong that he would try to deflect the accountability for his mistakes on to others and to a system for which he voted in favor. It is time to get on with life and forget the sour grapes.''
 Yankees Manager Joe Torre listened to a reporter read Steinbrenner's statement, bit his lower lip as he suppressed a laugh and said, ''Guess he said it pretty good.''
 The sniping did not amuse Commissioner Bud Selig. Selig spoke with both owners and warned them that any further public bickering could result in repercussions, a baseball official said.
 Henry said in an e-mail message that Selig had asked the Red Sox not to comment publicly about Steinbrenner's statement. ''So let's shift our sights to the field,'' Henry added.
 Yankees-Red Sox may be the best rivalry in sports. Thrusting Rodriguez into the equation will make games that are must-see baseball even more compelling. 
 Steinbrenner declined to discuss his statement when he appeared on the field here Wednesday, but he was presumably in a better mood when he stood along the left-field line and polished off Letterman's list. The category was ''Top 10 Good Things About Being a New York Yankee.'' No. 1, of course, dealt with Rodriguez.
 ''You think this A-Rod deal is good?'' Steinbrenner said. ''I'm about to sign Ty Cobb.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: George Steinbrenner, the Yankees' principal owner, taped the Top 10 list for last night's ''Late Show With David Letterman'' from Legends Field. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. D4)
(Photographs by Associated Press
 Barton Silverman/The New York Times [Rodriguez])(pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS REVENUES (88%); SPORTS INJURIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); TEXAS RANGERS (55%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (79%); DAVID LETTERMAN (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (87%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



452 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

White House Backs Away From Recent Jobs Forecast
The Bush administration backed away from a forecast it made last week predicting average job gains of more than 300,000 a month for 2004 but said it was confident of robust though unspecified job growth for the year.
 The White House press secretary, Scott McClellan, repeatedly declined to endorse the forecast, which was included in a report sent to Congress last week under President Bush's signature. The shift opened the door to an attack by Democrats. [Page A14.]

Testimony in Hollinger Case
Conrad M. Black deceived the board of Hollinger International, both about his intentions regarding the sale of assets and about payments that he and his associates received, the interim chief executive testified. [C4.]

MONY Delays Takeover Vote
The MONY Group has delayed next week's shareholder vote on a $1.5 billion takeover by AXA Financial. The decision came after a Delaware court ordered the company to disclose details of $90 million in executive payouts. Several of MONY's largest shareholders have fought the takeover by AXA Financial, the American unit of the giant insurer AXA of France, on concern that it would benefit executives more than investors. [C8.]

Big Board Defended by Its Chief
The chief of the New York Stock Exchange defended its market makers and its trading mode, arguing that changes he has put in place should be enough to appease critics. [C10.]

Japan and Iran in Oil Field Deal
Iran reached a $2 billion contract with Japan for an oil field project that had been delayed by United States allegations that Iran is in pursuit of nuclear weapons. [A9.]

Major Stock Indexes Decline
Stocks fell as investors took gains after a Tuesday rally. The Dow Jones industrials fell 42.89 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,671.99. The S.& P 500 fell 5.17 points, or 0.45 percent, to 1,151.82. The Nasdaq dipped 3.88 points, or 0.19 percent, to finish at 2,076.47. [C10]

Ford May Build Plant in Nanjing
The Ford Motor Company is strongly leaning toward Nanjing to be the site of a new assembly plant in China, people close to the company said. [World Business, Section W.]

Toyota to Be a Sponsor on EBay
In its latest effort to tap the Internet's advertising potential, Toyota has agreed to be the first exclusive automotive sponsor on eBay, the auction site. Advertising. [C4.]

Stress of Selling a Family Business
Charles Manoog, left, faced painful decisions when he decided to sell his family's business. And he is far from alone. In a recent survey of 1,143 family-owned businesses, 39 percent said they planned to change leadership within the next five years. As the baby boom generation reaches retirement age, experts say, the number is likely to swell. [C6.]

A Strong Week for New Albums
Norah Jones has given the ailing popular music industry some help, with her second album, from Blue Note, selling more than a million copies in its first week. [E2.]

Is Too Much a Good Thing?
By one theory, an abundance of natural resources is a curse because it encourages corruption -- and, eventually, the resources run out. By another theory, that theory has it all wrong. Jeff Madrick: Economic Scene. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,671.99 down 42.89Nasdaq composite -- 2,076.47 down 3.8810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.04% Unch.The euro -- $1.2706 down 0.0133The dollar -- 106.72 yen up 1.06Graph ''TODAY'' shows the percentage change in leading indicators from July - Dec. 2003.January figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.5%Graph tracks the share price of MONY since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FAMILY COMPANIES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); DIVESTITURES (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); BABY BOOMERS (65%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (61%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (51%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (83%); AXA (82%); SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (57%); AXA FINANCIAL INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); CS (PAR) (82%); AXJ (ASX) (82%); AXA (BIT) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (82%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JIANGSU, CHINA (68%); EAST CHINA (52%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



453 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: BATTLEGROUNDS

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: Kerry and Edwards Square Off As Dean Abandons Campaign

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE, Feb. 18 

 BODY:
Howard Dean ended his bid for the presidency on Wednesday, leaving John Kerry and John Edwards battling over free trade and jobs as the Democratic presidential contest veered into a more combative two-man struggle.
 As Dr. Dean announced that he was abandoning his campaign after losing his 17th state contest with a devastating third-place finish in the Wisconsin primary, Senators Kerry and Edwards moved aggressively to fill the space. They picked the states they would compete in over the next two weeks and argued over Mr. Kerry's support of free trade agreements and his contributions from lobbyists.
 ''As Senator Kerry himself has pointed out many times during this campaign, records matter,'' Mr. Edwards said in a noisy afternoon conference call with 100 reporters, the number a clear indication of how his status has changed after a strong second-place showing in Wisconsin. ''I think there is a significant difference between us on this issue.'' 
 The White House, too, was consumed with the economy. The Bush administration backed away from a forecast it made public only last week predicting average job gains of more than 300,000 a month for 2004. The administration said it remained confident of robust though unspecified job growth. [Page A14.]
 Mr. Edwards, a first-term senator from North Carolina, noted that Mr. Kerry, a four-term senator from Massachusetts, voted in the Senate for the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1993. Mr. Edwards asserted that he would have voted against it had he been in the Senate. He said he would, as president, renegotiate the treaty to provide protections for American workers.
 In Ohio, one of 10 states that vote on March 2, Mr. Kerry declared that he and Mr. Edwards held indistinguishable positions on future trade agreements. Mr. Kerry was preparing to return to Washington to accept the endorsement of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., an event his aides asserted would help rebut Mr. Edwards's challenge on this issue in states like Ohio, as well as California and New York, which also vote on March 2.
 ''We have the same policy on trade -- exactly the same policy,'' Mr. Kerry said, campaigning in Dayton, where he stood in front of a huge banner that read, ''John Kerry: Protecting America's Jobs.''
 ''He voted for the China trade agreement; so did I,'' he said, referring to legislation that granted China permanent normal trade relations.
 ''And we, both of us, want to have labor agreements and environment agreements as part of a trade agreement, so it's the exact same policy,'' Mr. Kerry said, before registering a note of skepticism about Mr. Edwards's commitment on the issue. 
 ''Well, he wasn't in the Senate back then,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''I don't know where he registered his vote, but it wasn't in the Senate.''
 In Burlington, Vt., Dr. Dean, the former governor there, said he was ending his presidential campaign but gave no indication that he would endorse any opponent. 
 ''I am no longer actively pursuing the presidency,'' Dr. Dean said, adding, ''We will, however, continue to build a new organization using our enormous grass-roots network to continue the effort to transform the Democratic Party and to change our country.''
 Both Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards spoke to Dr. Dean on Wednesday, and Mr. Edwards said he would welcome Dr. Dean's support. 
 The exchanges between Mr. Edwards and Mr. Kerry began almost as soon as Dr. Dean gave his final speech as a presidential candidate for 2004. The sparring signaled that the contest had entered a new and more competitive stage. Mr. Edwards appeared to some extent constrained in his attacks, because he has spent much of this campaign criticizing other Democrats for running negative campaigns. He kept many of his challenges to Mr. Kerry carefully calibrated.
 At least from the outset, the change of tone in the race appeared to pose a particular challenge for Mr. Kerry. He found himself battling on two fronts as President Bush's re-election operation also fired off attacks on many of the same issues that Mr. Edwards was raising.
 The Republican broadsides came after a primary here preceded by a week of intense White House attacks on Mr. Kerry. These included an Internet advertisement that portrayed him as a tool of special interests. Aides to Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards say the attacks might have contributed to Mr. Kerry's unexpectedly modest defeat of Mr. Edwards, by a vote of 40 percent to 34 percent.
 Republicans are allowed to vote in Wisconsin's Democratic primary, and they made up 9 percent of the voters on Tuesday, according to a survey of those leaving the polls. Mr. Edwards defeated Mr. Kerry among voters who said they were Republicans, 44 percent to 18 percent.
 Aides to Mr. Kerry and some national Democratic leaders suggested that in attacking Mr. Kerry before the Wisconsin vote, Mr. Bush's re-election campaign was trying to end a stream of clear victories that appeared to be building Mr. Kerry into a formidable challenger to the president. The attacks were also intended to encourage Democratic infighting, they suggested.
 Mr. Edwards suddenly found himself in a stronger position after placing second in Wisconsin. Although he has won only one contest so far -- in South Carolina, where he was born -- he moved to make the most of his moment and to put Mr. Kerry on the defensive. He had begun to sharpen his differences with Mr. Kerry on trade during the South Carolina primary and continued to do so in his conference call with reporters.
 The call came as Mr. Edwards spent much of the day raising money, including in New York, to try to collect the cash that his aides said he would need to be competitive in the 14 states that hold Democratic contests on March 2 and March 9.
 In the call, Mr. Edwards said that beyond trade, he would draw attention to other differences between the rivals, including ''the fact that I don't take contributions from Washington lobbyists.''
 He also said the candidates had different policies on helping the middle class. He mentioned specifically programs he had advocated to encourage middle-class savings.
 Asked about the criticism, Mr. Kerry's press secretary, Stephanie Cutter, responded, ''This is an interesting line of attack from the positive campaign of John Edwards considering that his campaign is wholly funded by trial lawyers, which are widely recognized as special interests and lobbyists.'' Mr. Edwards himself is a former trial lawyer.
 In a sign of the new fury of the contest, Mr. Kerry's aides were among the 100 people on the conference call; they e-mailed newspaper clippings to provide a running rebuttal to Mr. Edwards as he sought to contrast the views of the two men on trade agreements.
 ''Edwards promised to run a positive campaign,'' one Kerry campaign statement read, noting that Mr. Edwards had voted for the China trade agreement. ''But now Edwards attacks John Kerry and runs from his own record.'' 
 Mr. Edwards's aides said he was adding to the number of states where he will try to compete on March 2. They said he would turn his sights to California, a state that he had earlier said was too expensive for him.
 Mr. Edwards said in the conference call that California, with its 370 delegates, was impossible to ignore for a candidate who wanted to remain competitive.
 And Mr. Edwards planned to campaign heavily in New York as well, where there are 236 delegates. Because of the way delegates are allocated under party rules -- as a percentage of the vote won -- Mr. Edwards is facing intense pressure to compete in as many states as he can. Mr. Kerry now has 497 delegates, compared with 188 for Mr. Edwards.
 And Dr. Dean's decision to step aside means that his 119 so-called superdelegates -- for the most part, public officials free to chose any candidate, regardless of the primary vote -- are now back in play. Aides to Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards said they are moving to recruit them.
 In seizing on trade treaties as an issue, Mr. Edwards's aides said they were looking particularly at Ohio, parts of California and upstate New York, parts of the country that are reeling from job losses and, they said, would be amenable to Mr. Edwards's argument that Mr. Kerry had cast a vote that cost them jobs.
 In attacking Mr. Kerry for his 1993 vote, Mr. Edwards rejected Mr. Kerry's contention that there was little difference in what they would do with future job treaties as president.
 ''I think your record is an indication of what you'll do in the future and also shows the strength of your convictions on a particular issue,'' Mr. Edwards said.
 But Mr. Edwards acknowledged in an interview earlier this week that there was little evidence of his having opposed Nafta before 1997 or 1998, when he first ran for the Senate. He has close ties to the Democratic Leadership Council, a group of moderate Democrats that has pushed for liberalized trade agreements, but he said he had made his views known throughout that campaign.
 ''What I've said is when I campaigned in '98 -- since I wasn't in the Congress when passed -- I campaigned and I was against Nafta,'' he said in the interview. But he said it was not a major part of his Senate campaign.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Campaign workers listened in Burlington, Vt., yesterday as Howard Dean announced he was ending his race. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Senator John Kerry, left, and Brad Rice, a labor leader in Ohio, near an abandoned factory yesterday in Delphi, Ohio. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); LOBBYING (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%) Presidential Election of 2004; Primaries; International Trade and World Market; Treaties; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues ; Finances

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); JOHN EDWARDS (92%) Adam Nagourney; David M Halbfinger; Howard (Dr) Dean; John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (77%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (59%); DAYTON, OH, USA (53%) OHIO, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Wisconsin; Ohio

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



454 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: LVMH Leader Looks For the Right Match In His Fashion Empire

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON

 BODY:
The billionaire matchmaker is at it again.
 Today, Bernard Arnault, the chairman and chief stockholder of LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, will name Marco Gobbetti, who runs the Italian fashion company Moschino, to be chief executive of Givenchy Couture, the troubled but once-renowned fashion house, executives involved in the deal said yesterday.
 Another announcement, that of a designer to succeed Julien Macdonald as Givenchy's creative director, will not be far behind, they said.
 For Mr. Arnault, a 54-year-old engineer who started off dealing with architects in his family's construction business, the pending announcement is part of high fashion's continuing soap opera -- of trying to ''make a match,'' as he said, between a chief executive and a (possibly) temperamental clothing designer. 
 During his 15 years running LVMH, he has managed to forge a creative bond with John Galliano, whose outrageous collections for Christian Dior have been hailed by fashion critics. He found Hedi Slimane for Dior Homme -- and paired Marc Jacobs with Louis Vuitton in a critical and financial succes fou. 
 Mr. Arnault said in an interview last week in the LVMH Tower in Manhattan -- overlooking the glossy new Louis Vuitton store that opened last week -- that Givenchy could become a big brand again, like Christian Dior. Although Givenchy's perfume licenses bring in a big chunk of LVMH revenue -- the company will not divulge the exact percentage -- its runway clothes bring in only a tiny part, and the business is struggling to break even. Under Mr. Macdonald and the current chief executive, Marianne Tesler, who has been there since 1989, the Givenchy brand never took off -- despite Mr. Arnault's ministrations.
 More than any other corporate fashion mogul, Mr. Arnault relishes the role of impresario: like Louis B. Mayer on the MGM lot, he visits his sets and even weighs in on his cast of characters.
 ''Without the chemistry,'' Mr. Arnault said, ''there is nothing.''
 LVMH, the $12 billion fashion and liquor conglomerate controlled by Mr. Arnault, has not been without recent failures. Analysts still question whether the company's multibrand strategy can be sustained by the appetites of Japanese and American consumers for $3,000 leather handbags and $800 sweaters.
 Over all, LVMH's sales were down 6 percent in 2003, which would translate into plus 4 percent if the dollar were stronger, officials said. But Mr. Arnault has predicted publicly that operating profits, when they are announced in March, will be up 7 percent for 2003.
 Although he preaches patience, Mr. Arnault has moved to sell off a few of the dozens of brands LVMH has acquired. Many of them were bought in what analysts call the frenzy of the 1990's, when LVMH even tried to buy Gucci. In 1999, for example, LVMH paid $1.5 billion to buy 15 big-brand companies, including the British shirtmaker Thomas Pink, the wine Chateau d'Yquem, the jeweler Chaumet and the Philips auction house. It also acquired large chunks of both Fendi and Pucci. 
 Recently, Mr. Arnault sold both Philips and Ebel, the watch company. He paid 150 million euros for Ebel ($167 million) in 1999 and agreed to sell it to Movado for $47.3 million in December. And last week, Mr. Arnault conceded he might be willing to part with Thomas Pink.
 But on the other side of the ledger, Sephora, the global chain of perfume and makeup shops, made a profit in the United States for the first time last year. So did the Duty Free Shops, hit even harder than the rest of the hard-hit luxury sector by SARS, Iraq and the uncertain United States economy.
 And then there are those tempestuous designers.
 Mr. Arnault conceded last week that his own negotiations with Marc Jacobs, a designer trying to juggle his own collection and that of LVMH's most successful clothing and accessory brand, Louis Vuitton, had been rocky lately, although he insisted that such a situation was ''normal.'' And he also conceded that several major talents -- notably Alexander McQueen and Michael Kors -- had left because, he said, ''the DNA wasn't right,'' a phrase also used by his top lieutenants. 
 ''I am like a conductor,'' he said last week in a rare, lengthy interview in New York, ''but of course, you can do nothing if the piano player, or the violin player, is no good.''
 Privately, Mr. Arnault is called a bit stiff -- ''cold'' is the word used most often -- by fashion executives who have dealings with him. Negotiations, they said, can therefore be tough but never emotional.
 ''I think with Alexander,'' he said of Mr. McQueen, who reportedly just turned down Tom Ford's job at Yves Saint Laurent, ''there was always the bet'' that he could turn Givenchy around. ''It was difficult to work with him; he did not want to listen.''
 But Mr. Arnault, speaking from Paris yesterday, said there was something else, too. ''The products were not selling,'' he said. 
 Trained as an engineer at the Ecole Polytechnique, Mr. Arnault worked at the family's construction company for 13 years, becoming president in 1978. Six years later, he left to reorganize a French state-owned holding company, Boussac, which owned Christian Dior. In the late 80's, Mr. Arnault took control of LVMH. The success of LVMH gave him the cash flow to buy Givenchy (1988) and Kenzo (1993), among many others. He has been its chairman and chief executive ever since. Mr. Arnault owns at least 33 percent of the stock outright, and more through a complex web of partnerships.
 ''Mr. Arnault personally controls Dior S.A., which in turn is the controlling shareholder of LVMH,'' a spokesman said last night.
 Starting in the early 90's, LVMH started gobbling up many of the four-star luxury fashion brands that came on the market. The idea of the multibrand strategy was to generate enough cash from the core brand -- in this case, Louis Vuitton -- to nurture the most promising junior or undervalued ones. Louis Vuitton bags and other goods, which typically have quite high margins, make up more than 60 percent of the company's operating profit.
 Other companies, notably Gucci and Richemont, pursued the same strategy but LVMH added wine and liquor companies, which, analysts say, can balance off at least some of the erratic performance of the fashion companies. 
 Although LVMH, like the other multibrand companies, does not routinely break out profits among the individual holdings, one executive said that the profit margin for Dom Perignon was close to 35 percent. 
 Now, some executives within LVMH said, the company's strategy includes ''fattening up'' some of the most troubled brands -- like Donna Karan and the Duty Free Shops -- before they can be sold.
 ''They would fetch very little now,'' the executive said. Both Donna Karan and the Duty Free Shops have recently reported increased sales: Donna Karan because of what critics' have called improved collections; the Duty Free Shops because of a new management team led by Fred Wilson (now the chief executive at Saks Fifth Avenue) and the partial return of the tourist trade. 
 Mr. Arnault would not confirm or deny the strategy of fattening up certain brands for sale; but he said he planned to keep both Donna Karan and the Duty Free Shops -- ''for the time being.''
 Right now, Mr. Arnault is pouring money into Fendi, after reshuffling the management last fall by putting in Michael Burke, previously an executive with Dior, while keeping Karl Lagerfeld as Fendi's design chief. ''Now we have the right team at Fendi,'' Mr. Arnault said last week, ''so we are going to push. They will be the next star.''
 And he has reinvigorated Pucci, a small holding whose sales were almost nonexistent when the company bought it four years ago. A reintroduction of its jazzy signature print on down vests and other items sent sales skyrocketing to about $15 million in 2003 from $5.5 million when Pucci was acquired.
 The new Pucci collection is shown at both Jeffrey's in New York's meatpacking district and at Bergdorf Goodman, among others; a simple cotton dress can cost $1,200.
 In private, LVMH executives acknowledge their mistakes, not only about companies to buy, but about certain matches that, as Mr. Arnault says, did not have the right DNA. 
 Still, even his critics say he is involved in the creative processes of his company far more than others in the same position.
 Every weekend, he and Sidney Toledano, the chief executive at Dior Couture, visit the Dior shop on the Avenue Montaigne.
 ''I sometimes make modifications,'' Mr. Arnault said. ''Last Friday, we sold 50 of the new Dietrich bag. We tried to figure out how many we could produce -- we were almost out of stock.'' And that same day, he met again with John Galliano, the Dior designer.
 Asked about the past, Mr. Arnault said he would rather talk about the future. He likes to tell the story of his latest discovery when his assistant came running into his office a year ago, shouting she had found a young designer, Antonio Marras, whose work so resembled that of Kenzo -- a troubled company that Mr. Arnault acquired 11 years ago. Mr. Arnault immediately demanded to see the videocassettes that make up the designer's portfolio. ''Hmmm. You are right,'' he recalled saying.
 Last week, Mr. Arnault said the new Kenzo designer would ''really wake up the brand.'' 
 Why does he like to deal with designers? ''Maybe I feel it well,'' Mr. Arnault said, with a classic Gallic shrug. ''I like fashion. I feel I have a certain aptitude, like a musical ear. Perhaps I have the good eye. To work with John Galliano for six years at Dior -- after finding him we were criticized: the big shows were outrageous, but nothing was wearable. It took time, but now we have taken Dior to star status.'' 
 ''To have the right DNA in a team is very rare,'' he said. ''It's almost like a miracle.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Among the tasks for Bernard Arnault, below, chairman of LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, is replacing Julien Macdonald, left, at Givenchy. (Photo by Christopher Smith/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 A Julien Macdonald design for Givenchy's spring 2004 collection, shown in Paris in January. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C15)Chart: ''A Luxury Leader''LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the international conglomerate, has assembled a long list of well-known luxury companies and brand names.WINES AND SPIRITSMoet & ChandonDom PrignonVeuve ClicquotKrugMercierRuinartChteau d'YquemChandon EstatesHennessyCloudy BayCape MentelleNewtonMountAdamWATCHES AND JEWELRYTAG HeuerZenithDior WatchesFREDChaumetOMASFASHION AND LEATHER GOODSLouis VuittonLoeweCelineBerlutiKenzoChristian LacroixGivenchyMarc JacobsFendiStefanoBiEmilio PucciThomas PinkDonna KaraneLuxuryRETAILINGDFSMiami Cruiseline ServicesSephoraLe Bon MarcheLa SamaritainePERFUMES AND COSMETICSChristian DiorGuerlainGivenchyKenzoLaflachereBeneFit CosmeticsFreshMake Up For EverAcqua di ParmaPerfumes Loewe 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (93%); FASHION DESIGNERS (91%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); HAUTE COUTURE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); FASHION SHOWS (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); PERFUMES & COLOGNES (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%) Biographical Information; Appointments and Executive Changes

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (98%); CHRISTIAN DIOR SA (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Lvmh Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton Sa; Maschino; Givenchy Couture; Lvmh Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton Sa

TICKER: MC (PAR) (98%); LVMH (BIT) (98%); CDI (PAR) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (98%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (98%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (92%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (92%)

PERSON: BERNARD ARNAULT (92%); MARC JACOBS (58%) Bernard Arnault; Marco Gobbetti; Julien Macdonald; Tracie Rozhon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



455 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: PROTESTS

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Now in Previews, Political Theater in the Street

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN and COLIN MOYNIHAN

 BODY:
Karl Rove, the political adviser to President Bush, made a brief visit to a Manhattan nightclub yesterday and netted the Bush-Cheney re-election effort about $400,000. But Mr. Rove also caught a glimpse of what might greet Republicans when they come to New York for their national nominating convention this summer. 
 Mr. Rove was the guest speaker at a fund-raising reception at the club, Eugene, on 24th Street between Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas. Marvin Bush, the president's brother, also attended the event.
 ''Fabulous, fabulous,'' Mr. Rove said as he left after giving a 20-minute talk to several hundred people gathered inside.
 But while Mr. Rove was inside, more than 100 protesters were outside, standing behind blue police barricades chanting slogans, waving placards and offering a bit of street theater that confused the police.
 At one point, as hundreds of guests with invitations waited to pass through velvet barriers to enter the club, a small group of men in bowler hats and women in gowns marched up, chanting, ''Four more wars'' and ''Re-elect Rove.''
 As the group approached, a man who appeared to be a security agent of some type, was overheard whispering into a microphone: ''We've got two groups. One for and one against.''
 Actually, it was two against. The person was confused by a group that calls itself Billionaires for Bush, a collection of activists who use satire to make a political point. Indeed, members of the Sierra Club, who were protesting on the other side of the street were also confused and began shouting at what they thought was a pro-Bush contingent.
 '' We want the truth and we want it now!'' the Sierra protesters shouted.
 The billionaires shouted back, ''Buy your own president!''
 It took a few minutes, but the police finally realized what was going on when they escorted the group behind the blue barricades as well. Still, the show was not over. A black town car pulled up and out stepped a man whom who the crowd assumed to be Mr. Rove. ''There is Karl Rove,'' people shouted. 
 Reporters, photographers and television cameramen swarmed the man, but the police pushed them back. Another man lifted the velvet rope to let him enter. But the would-be Mr. Rove walked over to the crowd of protesters and began shaking hands, when finally, again, this was seen to be a joke. It was not Mr. Rove, but an actor playing the part.
 Each of the groups has said it planned to stage similar events when the Republican National Convention comes to New York City from Aug. 30 through Sept. 2.
 None of this dampened the enthusiasm of those who attended the event. It was organized by some of the Bush campaign's select fund-raisers, called Mavericks, who included Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's daughter, Emma Bloomberg, and Gov. George E. Pataki's daughter, Emily Pataki. Mr. Bloomberg also attended, slipping in and out of a service entrance. Those in attendance said Mr. Pataki did not show up.
 Andrew Prisco, 23, who said he lives in Manhattan and works in financial services, said Mr. Rove told the audience, which he estimated at about 700, that the two most important issues facing the nation were terrorism and the economy. 
 ''It was very inspirational,'' Mr. Prisco said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); FUNDRAISING (71%); STREET ART (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); RIOTS (68%) Presidential Election of 2004; Finances; Demonstrations and Riots; Conventions, National (US); Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: Billionaires for Bush

PERSON: KARL ROVE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Michael Slackman; Colin Moynihan; Karl Rove; George W (Pres) Bush; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Emma Bloomberg; George E (Gov) Pataki; Emily Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



456 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE NORTH CAROLINA SENATOR

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: 2nd Place or Close Wins Are No Longer Edwards Options

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and GLEN JUSTICE

 BODY:
Put simply, second place will no longer do.
 After Senator John Edwards's closer-than-expected showing in the Wisconsin primary Tuesday, the big question in American politics was whether he could overcome significant financial and political obstacles and actually deprive the front-runner, Senator John Kerry, of the Democratic presidential nomination.
 In a series of interviews, strategists, party leaders and even Mr. Edwards's backers said the senator needed to defy not just conventional wisdom but history. Since the rise of state primaries in the early 1970's, no candidate has come back from so far behind in the delegate count to win the nomination. 
 ''It's a tall mountain,'' said Steve Jarding, a former head of Mr. Edwards's political action committee who is now a fellow at the Institute of Politics at Harvard. ''But the other guys have fallen off that mountain and he's still moving up. The reality is that John is not going to raise $10 million in the next 14 days. But he'll raise enough to keep moving on.''
 While the Edwards campaign has been frugal with its resources, campaign finance experts say the operation will have to work extremely hard to keep money coming in to compete aggressively in the next contests. Mr. Edwards has raised about $3.3 million since the Iowa caucuses, aides said, but the Kerry campaign has much more money available.
 Seeking to turn the jolt of energy from his showing in Wisconsin to replenish his coffers, Mr. Edwards attended two fund-raisers yesterday. He plans another in Florida on Thursday and is expected to sprinkle them in among his campaign schedule in the coming weeks. His campaign said yesterday that it had raised $307,951 online since polls closed in Wisconsin, with nearly a third of the 3,821 online contributors new to his list of supporters.
 To counter Mr. Kerry's overwhelming lead over Mr. Edwards in delegates, Mr. Edwards's aides said, he needs to win at least two of three big states in play on March 2 and come in close seconds in others to pick up enough delegates to survive until March 9.
 Then, in Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Florida, Mr. Edwards would have a chance at winning and battling Mr. Kerry in a showdown March 16 in Illinois, provided he withstands inevitable pressure from party leaders to end the race sooner.
 But some Democrats question whether he can make it beyond March 2. For one thing, in two of the states Mr. Edwards plans to concentrate on, New York and Ohio, he may have trouble counting on the independents and Republicans who significantly fueled his surge in Wisconsin. Wisconsin had an open primary allowing independents and Republicans to vote; Ohio places restrictions compelling Republicans to sign a statement of support for the Democratic Party; New York's primary is only open to registered Democrats.
 In addition, both states are heavily unionized, giving Mr. Kerry an edge there because he has endorsements from the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the Alliance for Economic Justice, a group of labor leaders who had backed Representative Richard A. Gephardt, who has endorsed Mr. Kerry.
 Mr. Edwards is seeking to draw a contrast with Mr. Kerry in those states on trade, asserting that he will make clear that Mr. Kerry supported the North American Free Trade Agreement, which unions blame for the loss of millions of manufacturing jobs since its passage in 1993. Mr. Edwards was not in the Senate then but said he would have opposed it and has voted against other trade deals Mr. Kerry supported.
 Nick Baldick, Mr. Edwards's campaign manager, said the campaign did not yet have enough money to broadcast commercials in the expensive New York City and Los Angeles media markets, but he added that despite such hurdles, ''we are gaining ground in every state.'' 
 From almost the beginning, the Edwards campaign has relied on a grass-roots, almost underground approach that combines an engaging, almost evangelical speech preaching optimism and an end to ''two Americas'' divided by class.
 ''When voters see the candidates up close, see what they have to say, they have a powerful response to me,'' Mr. Edwards said yesterday in a conference call with reporters.
 But just how much voters may see Mr. Edwards is an open question. He said yesterday that he would like there to be several debates, and his aides say privately that they would prefer one-on-one encounters with Mr. Kerry, where they believe Mr. Edwards could get equal billing with the front-runner and show off his oratorical acumen.
 That, experts said, will put pressure on Mr. Edwards to keep money coming in for enough advertising to compete with Mr. Kerry on the air.
 ''The problem he faces is, once again, he is going to be outspent by Kerry, who will be capable of running everywhere and still has the momentum in this race,'' said Anthony Corrado, a professor of government at Colby College who tracks campaign financing and the delegate war. ''Wisconsin did not do anything to change the basic dynamic of the contest, so he still faces the problem of not being as competitive for delegates.''
 Mr. Kerry leads Mr. Edwards in the delegate count 497 to 188; candidates are awarded delegates even if they do not finish first, meaning Mr. Kerry can withstand second-place finishes better than Mr. Edwards can, Professor Corrado said.
 ''He needs to not just win but he needs to start winning by large margins,'' he said. ''If it is a two-man race, between himself and Kerry, in order to make up the difference between Kerry's delegate total and his own, he does not get much out of barely winning or second place.''
 Mr. Edwards will also face pressure to compete in all 10 states on March 2 to prove his national mettle. Mr. Edwards said he planned to campaign in every state, but his associates say he will probably campaign more in a handful of delegate-rich states like New York, Ohio, Georgia, California and Minnesota.
 His campaign announced yesterday that he would campaign in New York State the next five days, more visits than any other March 2 state. Three of those days will be in upstate New York, which has been hit hard by factory closings.
 ''When we have grass-roots support and the candidate is present, I am very confident we can do very well here,'' said Bill de Blasio, who is directing Mr. Edwards's race in New York. 
 Others, however, are not sure.
 Norman Adler, a veteran consultant who is neutral in the race, said that unlike statewide general elections, where upstate and the suburbs play a heavy role, primaries in New York are largely won in New York City. He predicted Mr. Edwards's upbeat message of ''hope and optimism'' would find skeptical ears in the city.
 ''They are going to want to hear the guy come out swinging,'' Mr. Adler said, ''and if they don't, they are going to think he is a vice-presidential candidate and they are not going to vote for him.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Edwards greeted supporters Tuesday at a rally at the American Serbian Memorial Hall in Milwaukee. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (71%); FUNDRAISING (67%) Presidential Election of 2004; Primaries; Finances

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%) John (Sen) Edwards; John (Sen) Kerry; Randal C Archibold; Glen Justice

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (97%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



457 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Big 3 of Europe End Talks, but Deny Trying to Dictate Policy

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: BERLIN, Feb. 18 

 BODY:
The leaders of Germany, France and Britain, meeting here on Wednesday to discuss the European economy, dismissed criticism from other European countries that they were making an effort to dictate terms to the rest of the European Union.
 The meeting of the three, at which they announced broad agreement on the need for what they called ''urgent action'' to stimulate economic growth and competitiveness, had been overshadowed by sharp complaints in Italy, Spain and other European neighbors that the three countries were trying, as the Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, put it, to form a ''directorate'' that ''Europe doesn't need.''
 ''We're not trying to dominate anybody, let alone Europe,'' Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany said at a news conference. 
 Jacques Chirac, the French president, said: ''I do not understand what people are criticizing, unless you consider that they are embarking on controversy. There are meetings in different formats across Europe, and there always have been.''
 Mr. Schroder, Mr. Chirac and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, addressing what they called Europe's failure to meet economic targets set at a meeting of the European Union four years ago in Lisbon, called in a letter for the creation of a new post inside the European Commission to oversee economic reform among all European Union member states.
 More generally, they said that they had found agreement on the need for all of the European economies to pursue economic reforms that would close the technology and innovation gap with the United States and make the union more competitive.
 ''We have to be clear about the fact that prosperity for Europe and for Europe's citizens can only be guaranteed if we succeed in implementing new products and implementing new jobs,'' Mr. Schroder said.
 In what might have seemed a small matter, compared with the overall question of European competitiveness, Mr. Chirac took the occasion to announce that Mr. Schroder had agreed to allow France to lower its tax on restaurant bills to 5.5 percent in 2006 from 19.6 percent.
 ''You will smile,'' Mr. Chirac said at the press conference, and, indeed, both Mr. Schroder and Mr. Blair did smile, but the restaurant tax has more than symbolic value at a time when France and Germany are running budget deficits higher than those allowed by the union's rules. The decrease in the tax will make it more difficult for France to lower its deficit, but Mr. Chirac had promised it to his electorate on the ground that it will increase business and jobs in this important part of the French economy.
 All three said that most European countries faced similar problems, including low rates of investment in research and development, high unemployment and rapidly aging populations, and that their meeting was aimed at generating new ideas to be presented to the European Commission next month.
 ''These three nations represent half the population of Europe and more than half of the wealth,'' Mr. Blair said, referring to Germany, France and Britain. ''If we can come to an agreement here to make our economies work better that will be of economic benefit to all of Europe.''
 While the three dismissed criticism that they were holding a ''summit meeting'' the fact that the criticism was voiced at all suggested something of the suspicious mood in Europe months after the union was sharply split by the debate over the American-led war in Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGETS (73%); TRENDS (71%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); AGING TRENDS (60%); AGING (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (85%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%) European Union

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (79%); TONY BLAIR (79%); JACQUES CHIRAC (79%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (55%) Richard Bernstein; Gerhard (Chancellor) Schroder; Jacques (Pres) Chirac; Tony (Prime Min) Blair

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); ITALY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Europe; Germany ; France; Great Britain; Italy; Europe; Spain

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



458 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ON THE ISSUES

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Where Kerry and Edwards Stand

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
Senators John Kerry and John Edwards, the two leading Democrats seeking the party's presidential nomination, differ more in style, tone and experience than on most issues. But surveys after Wisconsin's vote on Tuesday show they are appealing to somewhat different audiences.
 Generally, Mr. Kerry's support has come from voters describing themselves to pollsters as angry at the Bush administration and see the economy and its future in fairly bleak terms. He has also appealed to those with the lowest socioeconomic status. 
 Mr. Edwards's voters are more moderate and have a more upbeat assessment of the economic outlook, their own and the nation's. In Wisconsin, where independents and Republicans could vote in the primary, Mr. Edwards won the support of both.
 Following are their stands on other issues:

Abortion

MR. EDWARDS -- Supports abortion rights. Did not vote on banning the procedure opponents call ''partial-birth abortion'' when it came up.

MR. KERRY -- Supports abortion rights. Voted against the ''partial-birth abortion'' ban. Would nominate only Supreme Court justices who support abortion rights.

Death Penalty

MR. EDWARDS -- Supports.

MR. KERRY -- Opposes, except in cases of terrorism.

The Economy

MR. EDWARDS -- Proposes 10 percent tax cut to companies that make products in the United States; tax credit up to $5,000 for first-time home buyers; scale back tax breaks to companies that send jobs overseas.

MR. KERRY -- Proposes $50 billion for states to create jobs; manufacturing tax credits; would cut deficit in half in five years; crack down on trade violations.

Education

MR. EDWARDS -- One year of free tuition at public universities and community colleges for students who agree to 10 hours of work or community service a week. Proposes to increase teacher pay and break up largest high schools.

MR. KERRY -- Tax credits on first $4,000 of tuition every year of college. Proposes a $3.2 billion community service plan for high school students that would let them qualify for the equivalent of tuition at their state's four-year public colleges.

Gay Marriage

MR. EDWARDS -- Opposes same-sex marriage but would let states decide; supports domestic-partner benefits.

MR. KERRY -- Opposes same-sex marriage; supports domestic-partner benefits.

Health Care

MR. EDWARDS -- Would require government-subsidized health insurance for all Americans younger than 21; would cover half of nation's uninsured at a cost of $590 billion over 10 years; would expand nursing work force by 100,000; would restrict drug company advertising.

MR. KERRY -- Would expand the insurance system for federal employees to private citizens; would cover 61 percent uninsured at a cost of $890 billion over 10 years. Would save $1,000 off health care premiums for families through a pool for catastrophic coverage.

Iraq

MR. EDWARDS -- Voted to authorize the use of force; opposed $87 billion for Iraq and Afghanistan.

MR. KERRY -- Same.

Taxes

MR. EDWARDS -- Would eliminate Bush tax cuts for Americans earning over $200,000; would increase capital gains rate on incomes over $300,000; would provide tax cuts to encourage home ownership, savings and parents with newborns and tax credits for working poor.

MR. KERRY -- Would eliminate Bush tax cuts for Americans earning over $200,000. Supports target middle-class tax cuts for college, child care and health care.

Trade

MR. EDWARDS -- Would have opposed North American Free Trade Agreement had he been in the Senate at the time; favors including environmental and labor standards in the texts of such agreements. Voted to accept China as a full trading partner in the World Trade Organization.

MR. KERRY -- Voted in favor of Nafta, but would order a 120-day review of all trade pacts; would put environmental and labor standards in side agreements. Voted to accept China as a full trading partner in the W.T.O.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ABORTION (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TUITION FEES (88%); COHABITATION (88%); GAYS & LESBIANS (88%); MARRIAGE (84%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); JOB CREATION (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (66%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (66%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (65%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (65%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (65%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (52%); TERRORISM (51%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues 

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%) John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards; Katharine Q Seelye

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



459 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 4; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1515 words

HEADLINE: Now Preening On the Coffee Table

BYLINE: By KATIE HAFNER

 BODY:
TO most home viewers, remote controls may seem like ancillary sidekicks to the main attraction that is the television, DVD player or digital video recorder. Yet in some ways the remote has become the centerpiece of home entertainment: so many functions have been relegated to this slip of an object that if it is lost, you may find yourself unable to do so much as call up a menu for watching the movie you popped into the DVD player.
 But if the remote control is a linchpin, it is also often an inscrutable one. A typical remote may have some 40 buttons, with functions that are hard to divine. Often the labels -- ''toggle,'' ''planner'' and the like -- are no help. The device can feel like an afterthought, thrown together without any planning at all. 
 Increasingly, however, electronics companies are recognizing that building an easy-to-use remote control is an important and challenging task. To improve the remote, they are deploying teams of experienced industrial designers who focus on the product for months -- and reaching out to consumers for advice. 
 In 1998, design engineers at TiVo, the Silicon Valley company that helped introduce the digital video recorder to the world, set out to produce a distinctive remote control. The result was a textbook blend of complexity and ease of use.
 The peanut-shaped TiVo remote is at once playful and functional. A smiling TV set with feet and rabbit ears, the company's logo, graces the top. Distinctive buttons like a green thumbs-up and a red thumbs-down button have helped the remote win design awards from the Consumer Electronics Association.
 ''They did a really good job,'' said Jakob Nielsen of the Nielsen Norman Group, a technology consulting firm in Fremont, Calif. Mr. Nielsen called the oversize yellow pause button in the middle of the remote ''the most beautiful pause button I've ever seen.''
 When Paul Newby, TiVo's director of consumer design, arrived in June 1998, as the company was just starting up, he and a team of six designers were given 14 weeks to come up with a functioning remote control. Along the way they relied not only on their own instincts but also on feedback from potential users on everything from the feel of the device in the hand to the best place for the batteries.
 Mr. Newby, 45, a mechanical engineer, came to TiVo by way of designing much larger objects -- Caterpillar construction equipment, to be specific. Designing something that was by comparison microscopic was an inviting challenge. 
 Many remotes are monochromatic slices of hard plastic. For years, they have generally stuck to the old design conventions, a rectangle with neat rows and columns of buttons lined up like so many cadets.
 ''They were designed by -- and I hate to say it because I am one of them -- engineers,'' Mr. Newby said.
 Mr. Nielsen said: ''They work well if you're sitting in bright light and you have good eyesight and you're 20 or 30 years old. They're overloaded with features you don't really need except once a year or once a lifetime.''
 The shape of the remote -- the subtlety of how it feels in the hand -- was Mr. Newby's first major design consideration. 
 Because of the nature of the TiVo video recorder, the remote is held for long periods as users continually choose shows to record, skip commercials, fast-forward and rewind recorded shows, rate programs by pressing the thumbs-up or thumbs-down buttons, and even pause live TV. Designing a remote that consumers would find comfortable was a high priority.
 Central to the process, Mr. Newby said, was producing prototypes ''early, ugly and often.''
 Ugly?
 ''There tends to be this conservatism in the design process,'' he said. ''I encourage young designers to go off and scare me.'' 
 Some of the results fell under the category of ''Be careful what you wish for.'' One sketch was of a remote that looked like a horned toad. Another resembled an ice scraper for a windshield. 
 In the pursuit of ease of use, the design team struggled with how to symbolize the notion of rating a program, an unfamiliar button concept for most viewers. (By telling the machines what kinds of shows they like or dislike, users ''teach'' TiVo what programs to record on its own.) 
 ''Rather than pick some esoteric technical term about 'preferred' or 'not preferred' television programming, we came up with the thumbs,'' Mr. Newby said.
 Hundreds of sketches were quickly narrowed to dozens, and three-dimensional models were carved from rigid foam in the shape of spoons, slabs and paddles. 
 A month into the model-making, the peanut emerged. ''The shape is comfortable in your hand,'' Mr. Newby said. ''It's friendly and disarming. It's designed for simplicity, and it stands apart from the crowd of remotes on the coffee table.''
 The next challenge was to fend off an attack of buttonitis.
 ''Buttons proliferate on remotes like rabbits,'' Mr. Newby said, adding that he and his designers, who ranged in age from 25 to 45, had ''bloody battles'' over which ones to include. They managed to hold the number at 30, a considerable achievement given how many functions the TiVo receiver performs. Color, too, was a well-trampled subject. ''Color is this very emotional thing,'' Mr. Newby said. Determined to come up with shades that the designers considered ''warmer'' than standard-issue black, they chose dark cherry as the base color, with light gray keys for contrast. 
 To avoid a look that was too bright and toylike, he said, all of the colors ultimately got ''dusted down a notch.'' The pause button, for example, is a subtle yellow-orange.
 Then came the feel of the buttons, for which they chose a smooth, pliable rubber. Mr. Newby likened the feel of hitting the buttons to that of playing a piano. When a button is pushed, the user feels a slight snap, signaling that the key has traveled far enough to achieve electrical contact.
 ''These are the devilish details that often get overlooked,'' he said.
 In the middle of the design process, Mr. Newby turned to non-engineers on the TiVo staff for feedback. This helped the designers refine the size and shape of the keys and the amount of space between them.
 By September 1998, 11 weeks into the process, Mr. Newby and his team had completed the first few hand-built functional remotes. Then came a quick tooling cycle so TiVo could distribute the remotes to beta testers, consisting of technologically inexperienced friends and relatives of employees. The testers' feedback prompted the TiVo designers to reduce the time lapse between pressing a button and seeing the command executed on the screen.
 The same group helped the designers fine-tune the dimensions of the remote to maximize the comfort level. Mr. Newby said the testers also advised the designers on where to put the battery compartment so that the device would balance nicely in the hand.
 Other refinements followed, and by the time the first TiVo box was shipped to stores in March 1999, the remote was being produced in high volume.
 The base color of the remote has since been changed to a dark gray to match TiVo's Series 2 receiver, with buttons of much lighter gray for contrast. And the number of buttons crept up to 34. 
 But the look and feel of the original TiVo remote as it emerged from the design team's sketchbooks and modeling labs has survived, which is no coincidence. ''We wanted to create an iconic shape that would stick,'' said Dennis Boyle, a team leader at Ideo, a design firm in Palo Alto, Calif., that lent its expertise early in the process. 
 TiVo holds four design patents on the remote's basic shape and key layout. Third-party companies that sell receivers with TiVo built in, like the satellite television provider DirecTV, supply customers with a 36-button remote that is almost identical to the one sold with TiVo boxes. 
 The TiVo remote has many fans. One TiVo aficionado, Pat Hughes, a software engineer in San Jose, Calif., dressed up his two-month-old daughter as the remote for Halloween in 2002. The costume, which took a week to make, was a painstakingly exact replica, complete with battery compartment in the back. ''That's where she went in,'' he said.
 Mr. Hughes ranks his TiVo remote among the most important objects in his house because of the amount of time the device spends in his hand. ''I don't think that you reach that level of simple elegance by accident,'' he said. ''It's designed the way remotes should be designed.''
 Yet even some people who admire the remote say it has room for improvement. 
 Mr. Nielsen, the design critic, said that there was not enough contrast between some of the most important buttons and the body. ''The writing is small, and to add insult to injury, the contrast is too low,'' he said.
 The remote still gets lost, and its gray tones do not help it stand out when it is wedged, say, between sofa cushions. 
 Mr. Newby himself is considering some improvements, like enabling the remote to stand up on the coffee table.
 He has a couple of tongue-in-cheek ideas, too: a beer-proof, dishwasher-safe version and a ''Mega Mute version that mutes the neighbor's barking dog.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: PEANUT -- TiVo's latest remote control evolved with the help of users. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. G1)
 QUEST -- To design a remote control for the TiVo digital video recorder, engineers started with exploratory drawings, top. Then they tested the feel and look of various three-dimensional models carved from rigid foam, center. Finally, they arrived at an economical first-generation button design, producing some models in custom colors. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. G7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CD & DVD DRIVES (92%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (92%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (92%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (91%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ENGINEERING (88%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (66%) Television; Remote Control Systems

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Tivo Inc

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (51%); CATR (PAR) (51%); CAT (SWX) (51%); CAT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (51%)

PERSON: Katie Hafner

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (70%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



460 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Records Sought From Rowland In Federal Case

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH and ALISON LEIGH COWAN; Robert F. Worth reported for this article from Hartford and Alison Leigh Cowan from Stamford.

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Feb. 18 

 BODY:
Federal prosecutors have issued a wide-ranging subpoena to the office of Gov. John G. Rowland, seeking a vast array of personal records and documents relating to 15 companies with roles that have led to the accusations surrounding Mr. Rowland's administration.
 The subpoena, dated Feb. 16, is broader than those issued previously in connection with the governor, who has been under investigation for possible corruption in the awarding of state contracts. Mr. Rowland received a subpoena for personal records in January, and his wife, Patricia Rowland, received a similar subpoena this month. 
 The new subpoena seeks records dating to when Mr. Rowland took office in January 1995, and appears to suggest a wide-ranging inquiry into virtually every public accusation made against the governor or his administration.
 Ross Garber, the governor's chief counsel, said Wednesday that the subpoena was anticipated and the governor intended to comply with it. 
 The federal investigation has picked up steam since December, when Mr. Rowland admitted to lying about receiving free work and gifts at his lakeside cottage in Litchfield, Conn., from state employees and contractors. That admission prompted legislators to form a committee that will decide whether to recommend the governor's impeachment.
 With its latest subpoena, the government may be seeking to gather up relevant documents before the state impeachment panel starts issuing subpoenas of its own, according to lawyers who have some involvement with the federal investigation.
 Mr. Rowland's office has been issued subpoenas in the past, lawyers say, but those related to others in his administration or specific projects.
 The latest subpoena is aimed squarely at Mr. Rowland, and includes a blanket request for ''calendars, appointment books and schedules; travel and expense reports; telephone records, including but not limited to cellular phone records; telephone records for the governor's residence.''
 The subpoena also requests all documents and records related to 15 companies, some of which have long figured in the investigation and some of which are fresh additions. Among the familiar names are the Tomasso Group and its related entities, which have won numerous large contracts for state work, sometimes without bids. The Tomasso family also controls companies that provided workers who helped renovate Mr. Rowland's cottage. The subpoena also takes pains to mention that any documents related to ''functions, parties and/or other events'' held at the Tunxis Plantation Country Club, owned by the Tomassos, must be submitted. 
 Another company on the list, Matthews Ventures, is controlled by Robert Matthews, who received a lucrative lease from the state on a building he owns in New Haven. His companies have also received millions of dollars of economic state assistance.
 The government has also demanded any information pertaining to 184 Windsor Avenue, property that the state is renting from Mark and Allicia Wertheim, friends of the governor and his wife. Connecticut's attorney general, Richard Blumenthal, has criticized the lease as a "sweetheart deal,'' and four state employees were disciplined for their role in it.
 Also on the list of topics under subpoena is Claywell Electric Company. The company is owned by Kurt C. Claywell, a two-time felon who has worked on the Long Lane juvenile detention facility in Middletown, Conn., which has been the subject of previous subpoenas. Mr. Claywell pleaded guilty last year to mail and tax fraud for having his business pick up personal expenses and is awaiting sentencing. He was convicted in 2000 of pension embezzlement, for which he got probation. Both the Wertheims and Mr. Claywell have turned up on lists of donors to the nonprofit conservancy that has lavished attention on the governor's mansion since Mr. Rowland took office. 
 Prosecutors are also seeking records on Shared Technologies and 960 Main Street, ventures that were backed by Anthony D. Autorino, a Hartford businessman. Mr. Rowland first reported owning shares in one of Mr. Autorino's companies in 1997, the same year he gave Mr. Autorino a leadership role in the redevelopment of Hartford. Two years later, Mr. Autorino redeveloped an abandoned department store at 960 Main Street as a college campus with the governor's support. 
 The federal subpoena concludes with two catch-all demands for records relating to gifts to the governor's office, and reviews of state business transactions.
 Details of the subpoena were released by the governor's office on Wednesday, as legislators voted overwhelmingly to confirm two interim judges who had come under criticism for their personal and professional links to Mr. Rowland. One judge, James K. Robertson, has provided hundreds of hours of free legal work to the governor, who owes Mr. Robertson's firm $100,000 in fees. 
 But Wednesday, members of the General Assembly's Judiciary Committee praised Judge Robertson's character and credentials and voted, 38-1, to confirm his nomination to Superior Court, saying he had done nothing wrong.
 The legislators also voted, 37-2, to confirm another interim judge, Joseph A. Mengacci, who testified last Friday about his friendship with the governor and gifts or favors he may have provided for him. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPOENAS (99%); GOVERNORS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); CONTRACT AWARDS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); CORRUPTION (72%); ETHICS (71%); LAWYERS (70%); POLITICS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (63%) Governors (US); Politics and Government; Ethics

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (51%) Robert F Worth; Alison Leigh Cowan; John G (Gov) Rowland

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



461 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: Quitting Smoking

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 While Dr. Thomas R. Frieden's policies as New York City's health commissioner may create discontent, they work (''Gladly Taking the Blame for Health in the City,'' news article, Feb. 14).
 The smoking cessation program he developed helped me quit after 20 years and many failed attempts.
 Increasing the tax on a pack of cigarettes and banning smoking in bars and restaurants caused me a lot of economic and social discomfort, but that was the point. The city's program also offered a free six-week supply of nicotine patches, a ''carrot'' to assuage the use of such hard sticks. The combination was as brilliant as it was effective.
 Thanks to Dr. Frieden, living in New York City has brought unforeseen health benefits.

DANSBY EVANS
New York, Feb. 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (91%); SMOKING CESSATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (88%); SMOKING BANS (87%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (87%); RESTAURANTS (87%); TRANSDERMAL DRUG DELIVERY (85%); TAXES & TAXATION (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (72%) Smoking and Tobacco; Law and Legislation

PERSON: Dansby Evans; Thomas R (Comr) Frieden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



462 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 16; FILM REVIEW

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Two Boys, Losing a Father but Still Hanging On to Innocence

 BODY:
''Abouna'' was shown as part of last year's New Directors/New Films series. Following are excerpts from A. O. Scott's review, which appeared in The New York Times on April 5; the full text is online at nytimes.com/movies. The film, in Chad Arabic with English subtitles, opens today at the Quad Cinema, 34 West 13th Street, Greenwich Village.
 One day Amine (Hamza Moctar Aguid) and his older brother, Tahir (Ahidjo Mahamat Moussa), who live in a small city in Chad near the Cameroon border, decide to skip school and go see a movie. On the screen, they see a man, his face turned away from the camera, who Amine is certain is their vanished father. The boy calls out, ''Papa, look at me,'' and miraculously the man turns around to greet his children, not Tahir and Amine but the two small boys who, a few seconds later, bob into the frame.
 This moment, meticulously executed, poignant and gently funny, is typical of ''Abouna'' (''Our Father''), Mahamat Saleh Haroun's second feature film. With a few deceptively simple words and gestures, Mr. Haroun evokes both the flickering spell of cinema and a child's powerful, wistful longing for an absent parent.
 Later the boys sneak into the theater and make off with an enormous reel of 35-millimeter film, which they take home and unspool in search of their father's image. This innocent, absurd transgression proves too much for their proud, abandoned mother (Zara Haroun), and she sends them off to an Islamic boarding school in a dusty village, a place of tedium and harsh discipline.
 Much that happens in ''Abouna,'' beginning with the father's abrupt departure, is desperately sad. Amine, a dreamy, asthmatic child with big, credulous eyes, is protected from heartbreak by Tahir's lighthearted solicitude. The older boy, who is 15, holds onto his optimism with brave determination. 
 The movie's theme is responsibility. Having heard his mother complain about their ''irresponsible'' father, Amine wonders what the word means. ''It means just that -- someone who's not responsible,'' Tahir tells him after a frustrating consultation with the dictionary. Amine reasons, ''So our father was not responsible for leaving,'' appearing to take some comfort from the idea.
 In a sense he may be right. The father, whose flight into the desert takes place before the credits, seems to have been driven away by unemployment; whether to seek opportunities elsewhere or to escape humiliation is not altogether clear. But Mr. Haroun is not inclined either to cast blame or to make excuses. His interest is primarily in the relationship between the two boys, and on Tahir's chances, in terrible circumstances, of growing from a generous, open-hearted boy into a decent and dependable man. 
 Mr. Haroun, for his part, is alive to every nuance of feeling and immune to sentimentality. His camera ambles unobtrusively alongside Amine and Tahir, or observes them from a tactful distance, careful not to disturb the rhythm of their play or the protective bubble of their innocence.
 That innocence, of course, is fragile and perishable, and ''Abouna'' does not offer any easy reassurance about African childhood. Poignant though it is, the movie is the opposite of depressing. There is too much life in it: in the warm orange glow of its images, shot by Abraham Haile Biru; in the lilt of Diego Mustapha N'Garade's solo guitar score; in the green and ocher landscapes; and above all in the actors' faces, which seem to be illuminated from within.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Hamza Moctar Aguid, left, and Ahidjo Mahamat Moussa as fatherless brothers in ''Abouna.'' (Photo by Film Society of Lincoln Center) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); CHILDREN (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (70%); RELIGION (50%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: A O Scott; Mahamat Saleh Haroun

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); CAMEROON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



463 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Ex-Chief Executive of Enron Indicted on 35 Charges
Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron, a once-staid pipeline business that he transformed into an energy-trading giant, was indicted on charges that he conspired to disguise the company's troubled financial performance while profiting from sales of stock inflated by false earnings reports.
 Mr. Skilling, who pleaded not guilty at an arraignment, is the highest-ranking Enron executive to face criminal charges in the wake of the company's collapse more than two years ago. He was charged with 35 counts of fraud, insider trading and conspiracy. [Page A1.]

S.E.C. Studying Shell Restatement
The Securities and Exchange Commission has started a formal investigation into the restatement by Royal Dutch/Shell of its oil and natural gas reserves last month. [C6.]

Grand Jury Is Investigating KPMG
A federal grand jury in Manhattan is investigating the sale of tax shelters by KPMG to corporations and wealthy individuals who used them to avoid paying at least $1.4 billion in federal taxes. [C5.]

Press Baron's Actions Questioned
While Conrad M. Black was trying to sell the assets of Hollinger International, he was engaged in talks to undermine that process by selling his controlling stake in the company, two advisers to the company testified. [C5.]

A Job Classification Is Reviewed
Should fast-food restaurants be counted as part of the service sector, or as part of the manufacturing sector? That question is raised in the Economic Report of the President, an annual compendium of observations and statistics on the health of the economy. [C2.]

Questions Raised About a Cleanup
The state of Washington is investigating allegations that the federal Department of Energy and contractors are ignoring the risks associated with emissions from some of the 177 underground tanks at a nuclear weapons stockpile being cleaned up in Richland, Wash. [A1.]

Hewlett Issues a Cautious Forecast
Strong sales in consumer markets and tight cost controls helped Hewlett-Packard report solid quarterly results, but the company delivered a cautious outlook for technology spending in the large corporate market for computer hardware, software and services. Shares of Hewlett-Packard rose 38 cents, to $23.89, before the company reported its results. They fell in after-hours trading, however. [C6.]

U.S. Encourages Hospital Discounts
The Bush administration encouraged hospitals to give discounts to uninsured patients and financially needy Medicare beneficiaries. [A12.]

Daimler Chief Projects Slight Gain
Jurgen E. Schrempp projected a slight improvement in operating earnings for DaimlerChrysler this year from the lackluster 5.1 billion euros ($6.47 billion) reported in 2003. [World Business, Section W.]

Technology Stocks Lead Decline
A late-day sell-off in technology issues sent the major stock gauges lower. The Nasdaq composite dropped 30.51 points, or 1.5 percent, to 2,045.96. The Standard & Poor's 500 index slid 4.76 points, to 1,147.06, and the Dow Jones industrials fell 7.26 points, to 10,664.73. [C6.]

Economic Indicators Strengthen
The Conference Board's index of leading economic indicators rose 0.5 percent in January, to 115.0. In another report, the Labor Department said that first-time applications for unemployment benefits declined by 24,000, to 344,000, last week. [C6.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,664.73 down 7.26Nasdaq composite -- 2,045.96 down 30.5110-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.03% down 0.01The euro -- $1.2694 down 0.0012The dollar -- 107.22 yen up 0.50Graph: ''TODAY'' shows Consumer Price Index since July, 2003.January figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.3%Graph shows Hewlett-Packard share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); GRAND JURY (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); MEDICARE (75%); INSIDER TRADING (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EURO (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (67%); UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS (66%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%); HOSPITALS (64%); RESTAURANTS (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (50%); FAST FOOD (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%); SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



464 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Daimler Accepts Some Blame for Toll Venture

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: SINDELFINGEN, Germany, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
A day after the board of DaimlerChrysler announced that it would extend Jurgen E. Schrempp's contract as chief executive, Mr. Schrempp ran into a storm of questions on Thursday over the company's role in a botched highway toll collection system in Germany.
 Mr. Schrempp, who appeared at DaimlerChrysler's financial news conference in this suburb of Stuttgart, admitted that the company had stumbled on the project, which the German government angrily canceled this week, after technical flaws repeatedly delayed its operation. 
 ''Mistakes were made by all sides, that is quite evident,'' Mr. Schrempp said. ''We don't want to escape responsibility.''
 The futuristic system, which is designed to track and collect tolls from trucks with a network of satellites and wireless transmitters, was supposed to set the standard for Europe and the world. 
 Instead, it has become a humiliating symbol to many here of the decline of German engineering.
 The German government has threatened to hold DaimlerChrysler and its partner, Deutsche Telekom, liable for damages in excess of 6.5 billion euros ($8.2 billion). The companies are already paying 250,000 euros a day in fines, a penalty that will increase to 500,000 euros a day next month.
 Mr. Schrempp said he was confident the sides would resolve their differences. He disputed suggestions that the debacle had sown broader doubts about DaimlerChrysler's reputation.
 ''Despite all the justified criticism, there is a chance, even with this long delay, to make the system work,'' he said. ''This is a highly complex system, and if it materializes, it will be an E.U. standard.''
 Such warnings were sprinkled throughout Mr. Schrempp's remarks, as he laid out a guarded view of the prospects for Daimler and its main divisions, Mercedes-Benz and Chrysler. 
 He projected only a slight improvement in 2004 over last year's operating profit of 5.1 billion euros ($6.47 billion).
 Though DaimlerChrysler managed to squeak by its profit target, its performance left analysts and investors cold because of continuing heavy losses at Chrysler, turmoil at Daimler's partly owned Japanese subsidiary, Mitsubishi, and worries about quality at its flagship unit, Mercedes.
 Despite his own job security, Mr. Schrempp, 59, was subdued, saying he was not satisfied with the performance. ''You cannot be happy, for example, with what happened at Chrysler,'' he said.
 DaimlerChrysler is the latest German carmaker to report lackluster results, as the industry deals with product flaws, anemic sales on both sides of the Atlantic, and unfavorable exchange-rate fluctuations.
 Volkswagen said on Wednesday that its net income fell 57 percent in 2003, to 1.1 billion euros ($1.39 billion). The company attributed its weakness to the rise of the euro, which depressed sales in the United States, as well as the disappointing debut of its luxury sedan, the Phaeton.
 Volkswagen has pinned its hopes on the redesigned Golf, which it rolled out last fall in Europe. But the company did not meet production targets for the Golf in 2003, and now faces tough competition from a new version of Opel's Astra, as well as new compact models from Ford and BMW. 
 ''Cars are no longer the darling of Germans the way they used to be,'' said Boris Boehm, a money manager at Nordinvest in Hamburg. ''Germans are not replacing them as quickly as they once did.''
 Although Germany and much of Europe have shaken off a lengthy economic malaise, DaimlerChrysler discouraged hopes that better times would soon translate into a better bottom line.
 Mercedes-Benz increased its operating profit slightly in 2003, to 3.12 billion euros ($3.96 billion). But with a costly plan to roll out new models -- including a redesigned sport utility vehicle -- it will probably not lift its profit further until 2005, Daimler executives say.
 Analysts took that as a signal that earnings might actually fall this year. Mercedes is still struggling to restore confidence in its quality, which suffered after it fared poorly in a customer survey by J.D. Power.
 The chief of the Mercedes division, Jurgen Hubbert, insisted that quality was as good as at any time in the last 15 years, but that customers had become more demanding. Mr. Hubbert, 64, will retire in April, and be succeeded by the No.2 executive at Chrysler, Wolfgang Bernhard.
 Chrysler, which had operating losses of 506 million euros ($642 million) last year, hopes to do better in 2004, as it begins an ambitious rollout of 25 new models over two years. 
 But having missed its goal to make even a modest profit, Chrysler's chief, Dieter Zetsche, declined to set numerical targets or provide details on his plans to turn around the division.
 ''They keep saying 2004 is tough, let's look at 2005,'' said Thomas Aney, an auto analyst at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein in Frankfurt. ''But I don't think investors are going to buy into that.''
 For Mr. Schrempp, the problem-plagued Toll Collect project only makes his sales job more difficult. DaimlerChrysler said it had taken a charge of 250 million euros ($317 million) in 2003 to cover its share of the losses at the venture, plus provisions to pay fines for failing to complete it on time.
 But the bigger cost may be to the company's image. When DaimlerChrysler and Deutsche Telekom signed a contract with the government in 2002, they made grand promises about how quickly they could design and build an exceedingly complicated system. When one deadline after another passed, the partners settled into a surly standoff with the government.
 Analysts say they were in over their heads.
 ''To use satellite-tracking technology, allied with mobile phones, should work in theory, but nobody has ever done it in practice on such a grand scale,'' an analyst at Standard & Poor's, Robert Bain, said.
 The German transport ministry has given the companies two months to come to a new agreement, which would include stiff damages. Otherwise it said it would solicit new tender offers for the project. Mr. Aney said DaimlerChrysler would probably pay a fee to settle the dispute.
 ''It's a political problem, and there's a political solution,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jurgen E. Schrempp, chief executive of DaimlerChrysler, admitted yesterday that a toll collection project had failed. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (89%); EURO (89%); DAMAGES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%) Roads and Traffic; Tolls; Satellites; Automobiles; Finances; Roads and Traffic; Shutdowns (Institutional); Trucks and Trucking

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Daimlerchrysler Ag; Cofiroute Sa; Deutsche Telekom

TICKER: DTE (FRA) (55%); DTE (BIT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (55%)

PERSON: Mark Landler; Jurgen E Schrempp

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (96%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



465 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: Leading Indicator Index Rises,And New Jobless Claims Fall

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Evidence continues to increase that the economy is strengthening and that by one measure, unemployment may be easing. 
 The Conference Board said yesterday that its index of leading economic indicators rose 0.5 percent in January, to 115.0, after gains of 0.2 percent in December and 0.3 percent in November. 
The index is closely watched because it forecasts economic trends in the next three to six months.
 In another report, the Labor Department said that the number of people filing new claims for unemployment benefits fell sharply last week. In the workweek ended Feb. 14, first-time applications for benefits declined by a seasonally adjusted 24,000, to 344,000. It was the largest decline since the beginning of November and left claims at their lowest level in three weeks.
 And a nationwide survey showed that mortgage rates dropped this week to the lowest level in seven months. The average interest rate on benchmark 30-year mortgages fell to 5.58 percent from 5.66 percent a week earlier, Freddie Mac, the big mortgage company, said in its weekly survey of rates. The rate was the lowest since 5.52 percent in the week ended July 11, 2003.
 The Conference Board, which is based in New York and financed by business, said that 5 of the 10 indicators that make up the leading index contributed to January's gain: consumer expectations, stock prices, average weekly manufacturing hours, vendor performance and initial claims for unemployment insurance.
 Four declined -- new orders for nonmilitary capital goods, new building permits, a measure of the money supply, and the spread between benchmark Treasury and federal funds rates. The 10th indicator, manufacturers' new orders for consumer goods and material, was unchanged.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Leading Indicators''An index of 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board that are intended to predict overall economic activity
 1996 = 100.Jan.: +0.5%Dec.: +0.2Nov.: +0.3(Source by The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (92%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (86%); NEW ORDERS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); WORK WEEK (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); BUILDING PERMITS (50%) United States Economy; Leading Economic Indicators; Labor; Unemployment Insurance

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Conference Board; Labor Department (US)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



466 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1729 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S SKILLING IS INDICTED BY U.S. IN FRAUD INQUIRY

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron, was indicted on Thursday on charges that he conspired to disguise the company's troubled financial performance while profiting from sales of stock inflated by false earnings reports.
 Mr. Skilling, who pleaded not guilty at an arraignment here, was charged with 35 counts of fraud, insider trading and conspiracy. Simultaneously, the Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil fraud action against Mr. Skilling, seeking the forfeit of all ''ill-gotten gains,'' including the compensation he received at Enron, which filed for bankruptcy protection in December 2001.
 The collapse of Enron, a once-staid pipeline business that Mr. Skilling transformed into a global energy-trading giant, sent a clear signal that the boom years of the bubble era had come to an end. Investors lost billions in the debacle, which quickly became enmeshed in Washington politics because of the company's ties to White House officials. 
 While Enron seemed an isolated case at first, it was soon eclipsed by accounting scandals at an array of companies including WorldCom, Tyco and others that shook investor confidence in the integrity of corporate financial disclosures and led to sweeping revisions in federal securities laws.
 The indictment of Mr. Skilling leaves the company's former chairman, Kenneth L. Lay, as the most prominent executive who has not been charged in the case. He was not mentioned in the indictment but is still under investigation.
 The accusations against Mr. Skilling range from outright criminal violations that significantly affected reported profits to more subtle earnings-management techniques widespread in corporate America in the 1990's. They depict Enron as a struggling enterprise that grew deeply dependent on accounting manipulation to maintain its image as a financial powerhouse that turned in reliable performances.
 Indeed, prosecutors have assembled a case that appears to depend not so much on the specific effect of any one accusation but instead on the overall impact of a range of activities over many years. In quarter after quarter, Enron is portrayed in the indictment as struggling to find another one-shot technique to lift its earnings to meet or exceed Wall Street's projections, helping the stock price continue what had been an almost uninterrupted climb over more than a decade.
 With the indictment on Thursday, 29 people have been charged with crimes related to the collapse of Enron, including 20 former executives. Of those, 9 have pleaded guilty, including Andrew S. Fastow, Enron's former chief financial officer, who structured a series of off-the-books partnerships that were used to manipulate the company's financial performance. The Skilling charges were added to an indictment already filed against Richard A. Causey, Enron's former chief accounting officer.
 Mr. Skilling, 50, surrendered just before 7 a.m. Thursday to agents at the Houston field office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Agents then led him in handcuffs to the federal courthouse, where he appeared before Magistrate Judge Martha Crone. After his plea, he was ordered released on a $5 million bond and surrendered his passport. 
 As part of the charges, the government will seek forfeiture of $66 million in cash and real estate from Mr. Skilling. It will also seek assets worth $6 million from Mr. Causey. 
 Prosecutors hailed the charges as a demonstration of the strength of their pursuit of wrongdoing at Enron. 
 ''The Skilling indictment demonstrates in no uncertain terms that no executive is too prominent or too powerful and that no scheme to defraud is too complex or too fancy to avoid the long arm of the law,'' James Comey, the deputy attorney general, said at a news conference in Washington.
 But, in the first salvo of what is sure to be a long-running legal battle, Mr. Skilling's lawyers lashed out at the prosecution, saying that the charges were a result of a predetermined effort to indict their client that was set in motion when the Justice Department created a task force to investigate the company's collapse. 
 ''From the moment the Enron task force was designated, there was a decision to go after Jeff Skilling and demonize this company,'' said Bruce Hiler, one of Mr. Skilling's lawyers. ''The government's role is to investigate cases, not to create cases.''
 Outside the courthouse, Daniel Petrocelli, another lawyer for Mr. Skilling, criticized the prosecution for what he said was a failure to account for information favorable to his client. 
 ''I guess they needed a scapegoat, and I guess Jeff Skilling is that scapegoat,'' he said. ''Jeff Skilling did nothing wrong.''
 Mr. Petrocelli said that soon after Enron's collapse, Mr. Skilling submitted to a polygraph test administered by a former coordinator for the F.B.I.'s polygraph program. He said that a copy of the polygraph report was provided to prosecutors this week.
 The polygraph report shows Mr. Skilling was asked whether he knew of improper financial dealings hidden from the board, received undisclosed payments, believed in the accounting for certain off-the-books entities, or engaged in a particular stock sale based on inside information. In his answers, Mr. Skilling denied all knowledge or participation in wrongdoing, and the examiner found no indication of deception.
 Still, the polygraph test will not play a role in Mr. Skilling's courtroom defense. Under the federal rules of evidence, lie detector tests are not admissible in court as proof of a witness's veracity or a defendant's culpability because of concerns about their reliability.
 While the general public perception has always been that the ultimate target of the Enron investigation was Mr. Lay, the former chairman, Mr. Skilling has always been viewed by investigators and lawyers in the case as more likely to be the subject of a criminal indictment. That is because many of the underlying accusations of wrongdoing at Enron -- including those that have already resulted in guilty pleas -- involved associates and allies of Mr. Skilling. Moreover, Mr. Skilling was always perceived as being far more involved in the daily operations of Enron than Mr. Lay ever was.
 There is no mention of Mr. Lay, either by name or title, in the Skilling indictment. He is, however, still under investigation. 
 Indeed, at the news conference in Washington, Mr. Comey, the deputy attorney general, appeared to portray Mr. Skilling as Enron's most important figure, saying that he ''essentially ran this company'' in the period covered by the indictment.
 He added, ''In short, the indictment alleges that this was the guy at Enron.''
 As described in the indictment and related charges by the S.E.C., financial projections at Enron were essentially guaranteed, with Mr. Skilling, Mr. Causey and others using the accounting devices to create the results that had been projected. In essence, the indictment says, Enron projected an unrealistic growth rate for Wall Street and then, when the company failed to meet those unattainable goals, manipulated its accounting to create the profits that the world expected to see.
 That was accomplished, according to the indictment, by manipulating expenses, revenue, debt levels, cash flow and asset values through a variety of means, including fraudulent valuations, misuse of off-the-books partnerships, improper corporate reorganizations and intentional mistreatment of accounting reserves. 
 Indeed, what may well be most surprising about this case -- which has for so long focused on some high-level, complex accounting issues -- is how simplistic some of the suspected frauds actually were. 
 For example, one charge describes an effort in the second quarter of 2000, when Mr. Skilling and Mr. Causey decided that Enron should beat analysts' per-share profit estimates of 32 cents a share. Already, the indictment says, the company's performance had been rigged through various schemes just to reach those expectations. But, to do even better, Enron tapped certain trading reserves it held for no business purpose other than to reach the goal of beating the estimates. That quarter, Enron reported earnings of 34 cents a share.
 The accusations involving Mr. Fastow are probably the most damning in the indictment, primarily because they constitute the most blatant potential violations. In addition to his job as chief financial officer, Mr. Fastow also ran an investment fund known as LJM2, which did numerous deals buying assets from Enron. 
 Such a setup -- while creating a conflict of interest for the company's chief financial officer -- would be legal if Mr. Fastow's fund was indeed incurring the risk of owning the assets.
 But the indictment says that Mr. Skilling and Mr. Causey entered into undisclosed side agreements with Mr. Fastow under which LJM2 was guaranteed not to lose money on any of its Enron dealings. Such an agreement would, under any accounting interpretation, mean that Enron still owned the assets ''sold'' to LJM2. However, Enron used those dealings, the indictment said, to manufacture earnings and conceal debt.
 Some of the charges stem, directly and indirectly, from the financial effects of the California energy crisis in 2000. According to the indictment, beginning in the third quarter of 2000, Enron received profits in excess of $1 billion from trading in California, a result that would signal investors that the company's revenue was closely tied to the market price for energy. Such a perception would, by necessity, make Enron a less valuable stock, since it would be seen as much more dependent on volatile commodity prices.
 To avoid that perception, the indictment says, Mr. Skilling, Mr. Causey and others constructed reserve accounts for the huge windfall. Then, into 2001, hundreds of millions of dollars of those reserved amounts were used to allow the company to hit its earnings targets.
 Throughout this period, the indictment says, Mr. Skilling and Mr. Causey were profiting from large sales of their stockholdings, based on prices pumped up by the bogus financial reports. All told, from 1998 until 2001, the indictment says, Mr. Skilling sold some $200 million worth of Enron stock and stock options, netting over $89 million in profit. In that same time, it says, Mr. Causey received $14 million from such sales, netting more than $5 million in profits.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 24, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Friday listing the former executives of Enron who have been indicted or pleaded guilty to various financial crimes referred incorrectly to charges against two former executives of Enron's broadband division, Kevin A. Howard and Michael W. Krautz. (The error also appeared in a similar chart on Jan. 8.) While the two men have been charged with fraud and conspiracy, they have not been charged with insider trading. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former Enron executive, was escorted into court yesterday in handcuffs. (Photo by Reuters)
 Enron's former chief executive, Jeffrey K. Skilling, right, listens to his lawyer, Daniel Petrocelli, in Houston. (Photo by Carlos Sanchez for The New York Times)(pg. C3)Chart: ''A Widening Net''With the indictment of Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former president of Enron, most of the company's former top executives have now been indicted or pleaded guilty to various financial crimes. A number of lower-level executives have also been swept up in the investigation.CORPORATE EXECUTIVES: Jeffrey K. SkillingFORMER POSITION: Chief executiveSTATUS: IndictedACCUSATION: Conspired to manipulate Enron's financial statementsCORPORATE EXECUTIVES: Richard A. CauseyFORMER POSITION: Chief accounting officerSTATUS: IndictedACCUSATION: Conspired with Mr. Fastow to manipulate Enron's financial statementsCORPORATE EXECUTIVES: Andrew S. FastowFORMER POSITION: Chief financial officerSTATUS: Pleaded guiltyACCUSATION: Created partnerships to hide Enron's debt and enriched himself in deals between the partnerships and EnronCORPORATE EXECUTIVES: Lea FastowFORMER POSITION: Assistant treasurerSTATUS: Pleaded guiltyACCUSATION: Aided her husband in hiding kickbacks related to the partnershipsCORPORATE EXECUTIVES: Ben F. Glisan Jr.FORMER POSITION: TreasurerSTATUS: Pleaded guiltyACCUSATION: Manipulated Enron's financial statements to aid Mr. Fastow in the conspiracyCORPORATE EXECUTIVES: David W. DelaineyFORMER POSITION: Chief executive, energy divisionsSTATUS: Pleaded guiltyACCUSATION: Sold stock when he knew Enron's financial statements were falseCORPORATE EXECUTIVES: Michael J. KopperFORMER POSITION: Finance executiveSTATUS: Pleaded guiltyACCUSATION: Aided Mr. Fastow in his conspiracyCORPORATE EXECUTIVES: Lawrence M. LawyerFORMER POSITION: Finance executiveSTATUS: Pleaded guiltyACCUSATION: Evaded taxes by failing to report income from one of the Fastow partnershipsCORPORATE EXECUTIVES: Dan BoyleFORMER POSITION: Finance executiveSTATUS: IndictedACCUSATION: Helped disguise a loan by Merrill Lynch as a sale of power barges in NigeriaCORPORATE EXECUTIVES: Sheila K. KahanekFORMER POSITION: AccountantSTATUS: IndictedACCUSATION: Helped disguise the Nigerian barge dealEXECUTIVES AT ENRON'S BROADBAND DIVISIONCORPORATE EXECUTIVES: Joseph M. HirkoFORMER POSITION: Chief executiveSTATUS: IndictedCORPORATE EXECUTIVES: Kenneth D. RiceFORMER POSITION: Chief executiveSTATUS: IndictedCORPORATE EXECUTIVES: Kevin A. HowardFORMER POSITION: Chief financial officerSTATUS: IndictedCORPORATE EXECUTIVES: Kevin P. HannonFORMER POSITION: Chief operating officerSTATUS: IndictedCORPORATE EXECUTIVES: Rex ShelbyFORMER POSITION: Senior vice presidentSTATUS: IndictedCORPORATE EXECUTIVES: F. Scott YeagerFORMER POSITION: Senior vice presidentSTATUS: IndictedCORPORATE EXECUTIVES: Michael W. KrautzFORMER POSITION: Accounting directorSTATUS: Indicted*ACCUSATIONS: Intentionally misled investors about the division's prospects and performance to drive up Enron's stock price and then sold stock knowing that its value was inflated. All have been charged with insider trading, fraud and conspiracyENERGY TRADERSCORPORATE EXECUTIVES: Timothy N. BeldenFORMER POSITION: Managing directorSTATUS: Pleaded guiltyCORPORATE EXECUTIVES: Jeffrey S. RichterFORMER POSITION: Senior traderSTATUS: Pleaded guiltyCORPORATE EXECUTIVES: John M. ForneyFORMER POSITION: Senior traderSTATUS: IndictedACCUSATION: Manipulated the California energy market during the energy crisis in 2000 and 2001 to drive up prices and reap profits for Enron(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SCANDALS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ETHICS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); ENERGY MARKETS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%) Securities and Commodities Violations; Frauds and Swindling; Insider Trading ; Ethics; Accounting and Accountants; Bankruptcies

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) Enron Corp; Securities and Exchange Commission; Enron Corp; Enron Corp

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%)

PERSON: Jeffrey K Skilling; Kenneth L Lay; Dan Petrocelli; Kurt Eichenwald; James B Jr (Deputy Atty Gen) Comey

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



467 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: Women Tailor Sex Industry To Their Eyes

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
Carlin Ross and Christina Head, a lawyer and a documentary filmmaker in New York, recently teamed up to plot new careers.
 Among their first moves: Ms. Ross, 30, a general counsel to dot-coms, this month restarted an adult Web site that features ''sex and love from a woman's perspective.''
 Ms. Head, 26, who has primarily covered subjects like inner-city youth, hopes to produce and direct pornographic films and television programming. 
 ''It's all about empowering and educating women and, of course, I enjoy sex,'' Ms. Head said. ''We're women. We enjoy sex.''
 Ms. Head and Ms. Ross are part of a growing cadre of women who are selling sex to other women, in this case what Ms. Ross calls ''female empowered'' adult entertainment -- the kind with plots, foreplay and cuddling in the afterglow, the kind that is mindful of women's tastes and suggests new possibilities for women's pleasure.
 Experts say demand by women -- both heterosexual and lesbian -- is driving the growth of all sorts of sex-related ventures, from stores, catalogs and sex toy companies to adult Web sites, pornographic films and cable television shows. At the same time, many women, they say, see the sex industry as a legitimate place to make a living.
 ''Women have a voice now -- 'This is what I want and this is how I want it,' '' said Ms. Ross.
 Samantha Lewis, president of Digital Playground, a DVD company in California that produces pornographic films for women and couples, estimated that women account for 40 percent of retail sales of Digital's movies, double what it was just two years ago. At trade shows, she said, half the fans are women, compared to maybe 10 percent five years ago. ''Women are fueling the growth,'' Ms. Lewis, 42, said. 
 While women have long been involved in the sex industry as providers and consumers, their participation now has become more of an economic phenomenon, largely because of the Internet. In fact, experts say, the Internet has been a major factor in unleashing women's interest in all things sexual. Surveys by Nielsen/NetRatings, which measures Internet audiences, have found that women account for more than a quarter of all visitors to sites with adult content, with more than 10 million women logging on to such sites in December alone.
 ComScore Media Metrix, an Internet research firm, has found even higher female demand for adult sites -- 42 percent of all visitors in January -- with the highest rates among women ages 18 to 34. 
 The Internet also helps sales for other sex-related businesses. 
 Toys in Babeland, a company founded by women to sell sex toys and other sex products to women in 1993, with three stores in Washington and New York, said online purchases have boomed in the last four years, outpacing mail-order and retail sales. ''We're getting a boost from the way the Internet allows privacy and from a shift in expectations about sex, specially in women,'' Claire Cavanah, a co-owner, said. ''It's a whole new mindset.''
 As recently as a decade ago, the customer base for Adam & Eve, a mail-order marketer of adult entertainment and novelties, was virtually all male, said Katy Zvolerin, a spokeswoman for the company, which is based in Charlotte, N.C. Today, women account for 30 percent of the company's catalog sales and 40 percent of Internet sales, she said.
 More women in the business helps to generate more female demand. Debra Curtis, a lecturer on anthropology at Salve Regina University in Newport, R.I., said the Tupperware-style demonstration parties of sex toys, where women sit around with friends in a relaxed setting, help to promote sex toys as fun and mainstream. The saleswomen make the toys ''imaginable,'' she said, for those who would never have considered using them.
 ''The market is providing women multiple ways of being sexual,'' said Ms. Curtis, who wrote a paper for the journal Cultural Anthropology on the gatherings. ''There are new sexual repertoires, new rules and expectations, being created. It's not just about romance. It's about increasing sexual pleasure. ''
 Some critics are skeptical of what is driving the demand. 
 ''Are they doing this to please the men or please themselves?'' asked Tamara Kreinin, president of the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States, a nonprofit group that promotes comprehensive education about sexuality. '' 'Sex and the City' is indicative of a certain comfort, but for most women it's much less about sex and much more about the relationship.'' 
 Others say that embracing pornography is an unhealthy sign that women are trying to imitate men's attitudes toward sex rather than using their perspective to influence men's behavior. 
 ''The women's pornography I've seen is still pretty blatant,'' said Diana E. H. Russell, a professor emerita of sociology at Mills College in Oakland, Calif., and an expert on sexual violence. ''It's done in a more gentle way, but it's still sex without any connection to other feelings.''
 Female directors of pornographic films remain a small minority, but they have become more common in the last five years, industry experts said. One pioneer, Candida Royalle, a performer who began directing in the 1980's, described the woman's influence as steering away from mechanical scenes and ''an overabundance'' of close-up shots to portray ''real bodies and sex that resembled more how women like to make love.''
 While no statistics are available, Mark Kernes, senior editor at Adult Video News, the industry's trade publication, said that more women are also seen among the owners of adult video and novelty stores.
 The business is attracting women like Alex Reyes, 52, a hairdresser in Austin, Tex., who said she had never bought a sex product -- and had watched possibly two pornographic films in her life -- but who planned to open an adult store in the fall next to her beauty salon. Ms. Reyes said that as she cut hair she often heard her clients discuss the lingerie, ''edible stuff'' and the sex toys they used. 
 After 30 years in the hair business, she said, she thought her new store would be less demanding and more profitable than her salon.
 ''Sex sells and there are many different forms,'' said Ms. Reyes, who is single and has a 25-year-old son who she said supported her plans. ''I'm looking at one form.''
 Thousands of other women are supplementing incomes and sometimes even becoming wealthy by selling sex products at home demonstrations. Passion Parties, which is based in the San Francisco suburb of Brisbane, Calif., is one of the largest such companies, with 3,200 saleswomen. Patricia Davis, the company's president, said that sales had grown more than 50 percent in each of the last three years, to $20 million annually and that 11 Passion Parties saleswomen sold more than $1 million worth of products last year. 
 Elena Cruz, 28, a database administrator from Brentwood, N.Y., who bought sex toys and lotions at two Passion Parties over the last year, said she had ''always been interested but I never had the courage'' to buy such products before.
 ''I never had the guts to walk up and purchase something at a store,'' she said. ''The parties are more accessible and more informative.''
 Many new sexual entrepreneurs say they are filling a void, supplying female-oriented products that did not exist before. Last month, Robin Adams, 32, and Micole Taggart, 29, published the first issue of ''Sweet Action,'' a pornographic magazine billed as ''the official guide for the boy-crazy gal.'' The magazine features ''hot'' but normal-looking men and eschews how-to-please-your-man articles for those telling women how to please themselves.
 ''The original intent was to make something for women that they don't have,'' said Ms. Adams, a jewelry designer who came up with the idea.''We're very underrepresented in our sexuality. We tend to get erotica and poetry, but porn is a scary word for women.''
 In Austin, Ms. Reyes envisions ''the new romantic sex shop,'' with ''pinks and blacks and soft colors, music playing.''
 ''I've dealt with women for years,'' she said. ''Why would they have to go through the Internet, hidden? I want it to be a place where people wouldn't feel embarrassed. You don't have to put on a disguise to visit.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 26, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Friday about the growing role of women in the sex-oriented entertainment industry misidentified the home city of Adam & Eve, a mail-order marketer of entertainment and novelties. It is Hillsborough, N.C., not Charlotte, N.C. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christina Head, left, a documentary filmmaker, and Carlin Ross, a lawyer, have recently become sex-industry entrepreneurs selling what Ms. Ross calls ''female empowered'' adult entertainment and products. (Photo by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROSTITUTION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PORNOGRAPHY (90%); WOMEN (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); RETAIL SALES (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (66%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%) Sex; Women; Entrepreneurship; Pornography and Obscenity; Computers and the Internet; Catalogs; Toys; Ratings and Rating Systems; Sex

COMPANY: COMSCORE INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Nielsen/net Ratings

TICKER: SCOR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: Mireya Navarro

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



468 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Dark Side Of Free Trade

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The classic story of the American economy is a saga about an ever-expanding middle class that systematically absorbs the responsible, hard-working families from the lower economic groups. It's about the young people of each successive generation doing better than their parents' generation. The plotline is supposed to be a proud model for the rest of the world.
 One of the reasons there is so much unease among voters this year is the fact that this story no longer rings so true. Books based on its plotline are increasingly being placed in the stacks labeled ''fantasy.'' 
 The middle class is in trouble. Globalization and outsourcing are hot topics in this election season because so many middle-class Americans, instead of having the luxury of looking ahead to a brighter future for the next generation, are worried about slipping into a lower economic segment themselves.
 This is happening in the middle of an economic expansion, which should tell us that the terrain has changed. In terms of job creation, it's the weakest expansion on record. The multinationals and the stock market are doing just fine. But American workers are caught in a cruel squeeze between corporations bent on extracting every last ounce of productivity from their U.S. employees and a vast new globalized work force that is eager and well able to do the jobs of American workers at a fraction of the pay.
 The sense of anxiety is growing and has crossed party lines. ''We are losing the information-age jobs that were supposed to take the place of all the offshored manufacturing and industrial jobs,'' said John Pardon, an information technology worker from Dayton, Ohio. Mr. Pardon described himself as a moderate conservative, a longtime Republican voter who has become ''alienated from the Republican Party and the Bush administration'' over the jobs issue.
 Mr. Pardon does not buy the rhetoric of the free-trade crusaders, who declare, as a matter of faith, that the wholesale shipment of jobs overseas is good for Americans who have to work for a living.
 ''There aren't any new middle-class 'postindustrial' or information-age jobs for displaced information-age workers,'' he told me. ''There are no opportunities to 'move up the food chain' or 'leverage our experience' into higher value-added jobs.''
 The simple truth, as Mr. Pardon and so many others have found through hard experience, is that enormous numbers of well-educated, highly skilled white-collar workers are having tremendous trouble finding the kind of high-level employment they've been trained for and the kind of pay they feel they deserve.
 The knee-jerk advocates of unrestrained trade always insist that it will result in new, more sophisticated and ever more highly paid employment in the U.S. We can ship all these nasty jobs (like computer programming) overseas so Americans can concentrate on the more important, more creative tasks. That great day is always just over the horizon. And those great jobs are never described in detail.
 These advocates are sounding more and more like the hapless Mr. Micawber in ''David Copperfield,'' who could never be swayed from his good-natured belief that something would ''turn up.''
 We've allowed the multinationals to run wild and never cared enough to step in when the people losing their jobs, or getting their wages and benefits squeezed, were of the lower-paid variety. Now the middle class is being targeted, and the panic is setting in.
 No one really knows what to do -- not the president, not John Kerry or John Edwards, and most of all not the economists and other advocates who have been so certain about the benefits for American working men and women of unrestrained trade and globalization.
 What happens when the combination of corporate indifference and the globalized pressure on jobs and wages becomes so intense it weakens the very foundations of the American standard of living?
 The fact that this critically important issue is finally becoming an important part of the national conversation is, to borrow a phrase used in another context by the chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, ''a good thing.''
 Perhaps an honest search for solutions will follow.

Paul Krugman is on vacation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (75%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); OFFSHORING (74%); OUTSOURCING (74%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (69%) Labor; Election Issues ; International Trade and World Market; Presidential Election of 2004; Relocation of Business

PERSON: Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (53%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



469 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1; HAVENS

LENGTH: 1641 words

HEADLINE: Member-Only Ski Areas: No Crowds

BYLINE: By SCOTT KIRSNER

 BODY:
WARREN EVANKO was snowmobiling with his family in the Green Mountains of Vermont a few years ago when he spotted what looked like a small ski area occupying its own mountain peak. The trails didn't seem to be part of the sprawling Killington Resort, where Mr. Evanko rented a ski house each winter, and the lone chairlift was empty. When Mr. Evanko asked his snowmobile guide about it, he got a curious answer. ''He told me that it was some rich guy's private ski hill,'' Mr. Evanko recalled. 
 Intrigued, and dismayed by the increasingly crowded conditions at Killington, Mr. Evanko, a shopping mall developer from Tewksbury, N.J., decided he would try to find out more about the ski area. Driving into the small town of Plymouth, Vt., midway between Killington and the Okemo Mountain Resort, Mr. Evanko stopped at a gas station. He discovered an office not far from the pumps that was serving as the temporary headquarters for the Bear Creek Mountain Club, the ski area he had seen while snowmobiling. 
 ''They told me they were trying to start a country club for skiing,'' Mr. Evanko said. An employee of the club offered to start the lift so that Mr. Evanko and his family could take a few runs. They had Bear Creek's 51 acres of ski terrain all to themselves. ''After that, we were hooked,'' Mr. Evanko said. ''I was ready to sign up. But they didn't even have membership forms yet.'' 
 The Bear Creek Mountain Club, which opened in 2002, is part of a small but flourishing segment of the ski industry: membership ski areas. Some of the clubs operate rudimentary rope tows and charge tiny membership fees. Membership in the Mount Greylock Ski Club in Massachusetts, which has been in existence since 1937, costs $120 a year for a family, but members must volunteer to patrol the mountain, operate the lifts and help stoke the wood-burning stoves that heat the rustic base lodge. 
 Other clubs, like the HoliMont Ski Area in western New York, have installed modern lifts and snowmaking systems. (Annual membership at HoliMont: $1,200 per family.) Among the most exclusive of the members-only mountains is the Yellowstone Club in Montana, which opened in 2000 and which maintains its own hangar for members' private planes at the airport in nearby Bozeman. It requires that prospective members show evidence of a net worth of at least $3 million and pay a membership deposit of $250,000. 
 Yellowstone has eight lifts, six of them high-speed quads, and the area gets about 400 inches of snow each year. ''It's spectacular terrain,'' said Whitney Peyton, who manages a commercial real estate firm in Bloomington, Minn., and who joined Yellowstone in 2002 after being recruited by the resort's marketing director, Hank Kashiwa, a television skiing commentator and former Olympic skier.
 ''The beauty of it is, there's not a lot of folks there,'' Mr. Peyton said. ''You can go there a few days after a snowstorm and still find powder.'' Although the lifts are capable of carrying more than 5,000 skiers an hour, a busy holiday period like Christmas week draws just 300 skiers at Yellowstone.
 Annual dues at Yellowstone are $16,000 per family, and members must also buy a building lot or a residence at the 13,400-acre club. ''It's a little bit of a stretch for me,'' Mr. Peyton said, ''but at about the same time we were looking at the club, I had three of my contemporaries pass away. I said, 'Life is not eternal.' ''
 Membership ski areas are ''a tiny but visible niche of the industry,'' said Michael Berry, the president of the National Ski Areas Association, a trade group. ''There's an ebb and flow. Sometimes we see a few more get started, but the economics make it difficult to keep them going. This is a capital-intensive business, and it's very influenced by the weather. The membership base has to have the wherewithal to take care of the costs.''
L IKE country clubs, most of the private ski mountains charge an initiation fee and annual dues. (At Bear Creek, the initiation fee for a couple is $13,500, and annual dues of $1,350 cover a winter's worth of skiing.) Members also pay for meals and drinks. Some clubs, like HoliMont and Bear Creek, sell daily lift tickets to nonmembers. Others, like the Yellowstone Club, do not. 
 Among the most venerable of the members-only ski resorts is the Mount Greylock Ski Club, on a flank of the highest peak in Massachusetts. One of its two rope tows is powered by an old Ford flathead V-8 salvaged from a wreck. The tows don't even have plastic handles; skiers simply grab onto the rope and are tugged up the hill. 
 ''We wear old gloves because the rope tow is wicked on your gloves,'' explained Mary Merselis, a former president of the club.
 In the lodge, coffee, tea and cocoa are available on the honor system. ''People generally bring up food -- turkey soup and homemade brownies and hot mulled wine -- and they share it,'' Ms. Merselis said. 
 Burt Wright, 83, joined the Mount Greylock club in the 1950's, when it had 2,000 members and a waiting list of people eager to join. (There are now only about 150 members.) ''Membership cost $3 a year, and I think that covered both me and my wife,'' he said. Their four sons learned to ski there, and Mr. Wright once headed the volunteer ski patrol.
 ''Everybody knows everybody,'' he said. ''When I was ski patroller, I knew all the kids, and if I saw somebody doing something dangerous, I'd speak to him by name. If you speak to a kid by name, he takes notice.'' Mr. Wright still skis often at Mount Greylock. On a recent Sunday, he said, the conditions were ''a little bit scratchy,'' but ''there were quite a lot of people -- we had about 50.''
 At the smaller clubs, maintenance and upgrades are cooperative projects. Each fall, in Williston, Vt., near Burlington, members show up with pruning shears and clippers to clear brush from the Chapman Hill ski area. This winter, they are hanging floodlights so that they can ski at night. 
 Dave Bouchard, a fourth-grade teacher at the Williston Central School, was recruited to join the Chapman Hill club when the father of one of his students asked him to help fix the counterweight system for the rope tow. He's now a member, paying annual dues of $30 to Williston Ski Associates, which operates Chapman Hill.
 The largest private ski area, in terms of members, is HoliMont in Ellicottville, N.Y., which is in its 40th consecutive year of operation this season. ''It started in 1964 with 13 families,'' said Dave Riley, HoliMont's general manager. ''They were just people who liked to ski.'' The original ski lift at HoliMont was a hay wagon pulled to the top of the mountain by a treaded Sno-Cat. Now, the membership is 1,300 families, almost half of them from Canada.
 Several of the country's luxury ski resorts, including Stratton Mountain in Vermont, and Aspen Mountain, Telluride, Beaver Creek Resort and Vail Mountain in Colorado, have recently opened clubs of a different sort: private clubhouses on mountains that are otherwise open to the public. Members of these clubs have access to their own on-mountain restaurants and lodges. But they share the ski trails with nonmembers, since the ski resorts operate primarily on land leased from the Forest Service, which requires that resorts grant equal access to all visitors. The clubhouses themselves are built on private property, and most of the clubs have waiting lists to join. 
 Members of the Aspen Mountain Club pay an $80,000 initiation fee and annual dues of about $2,500 for the privilege of having lunch in a private cabin atop Aspen Mountain, 11,500 feet above sea level. As a bonus, they get two lifetime ski passes and a locker at the base of the mountain. Members include Don Johnson, Robert Wagner and Jill St. John. 
 The Stratton Mountain Club, the newest and most elaborate of the bunch, opened last February. Members can park in the underground garage, take an elevator up to the main floor for a continental breakfast, and then head to the locker room, where each locker is outfitted with built-in ski boot heaters that switch on automatically every night. After the day's skiing, the club offers cheese fondue and a jazz quartet. (Terrance Brennan, a club member and Manhattan restaurateur, helped select the cheeses.) A concierge is available to arrange sleigh rides, snowmobile trips and ski lessons. Members can pay extra for a special pass that gives them priority access to the ski lifts.
 Members of the Stratton Mountain Club and other clubs say they want a skiing atmosphere that is friendlier, less crowded and less stressful -- and in some cases, they are willing to pay more for it. (At clubs like Chapman Hill and Mount Greylock, the cost is actually much less than a season pass at a commercial ski area.)
 During the recent Martin Luther King Jr. holiday weekend, Mr. Evanko was skiing at Bear Creek with his 5-year-old son, Colin, and the son of a friend from New Jersey who had also joined the club. They didn't have to wait to board the two-passenger chairlift that took them to the summit. From the top, they could see Killington Peak, a chain of small lakes and the Calvin Coolidge homestead, where the 30th president was born. 
 After the children had peeled away, skiing back toward the Evankos' trailside house, Mr. Evanko headed for a narrow and winding old-style New England run called Roller Coaster. ''This is kind of a secret trail for the members,'' he said. It was 3:30 on Sunday afternoon, and there was no one skiing in front of him, and no one chasing him down the hill from behind. 
 Mr. Evanko had escaped the crowds, for which he seemed grateful. But for some members of the family, that is a mixed blessing. ''To be honest,'' Mr. Evanko said, ''my kids do get excited about holiday weekends on the ski slopes, because then there are actually some people here, and they might see some other kids.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: PRIVATE MONTANA -- A heated pool at the Yellowstone Club, a 13,400-acre private ski area near Bozeman, Mont., one of a number of clubs for skiers who want the slopes to themselves. (Photo by Anne Sherwood for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
DELUXE OR NOT -- Bloody marys and the Timberline Cafe at the Yellowstone Club, at left. At the Mount Greylock Ski Club, members share simple rope tows, center
a rustic lodge, above right
 and handle the grooming, top. (Photographs by Anne Sherwood for The New York Times [Yellowstone Club] and George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (93%); SKIING FACILITIES (92%); SKIING (90%); SNOWMOBILING (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); RESORTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); GAS STATIONS (74%); RETAIL PROPERTY (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (55%) Skiing; Organizations, Societies and Clubs

ORGANIZATION: Bear Creek Mountain Club (Vt); Yellowstone Ski Club (Montana); Mount Greylock Ski Club (Mass); Holimont Ski Club (Ellicotville, NY)

PERSON: Scott Kirsner

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (95%); MONTANA, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



470 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Burst of Late-Day Selling Sends Highflying Shares Lower

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Late-session selling of technology stocks ahead of an earnings announcement by the Hewlett-Packard Company led Wall Street lower yesterday, overtaking earlier gains spurred by solid earnings and economics news. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index were flirting with two-and-a-half-year highs before heavy selling in the last hour of trading sent prices skidding.
 ''It could be programmed trades executing when stocks hit those higher levels, or just some profit-taking,'' said Kevin Caron, market strategist for Ryan, Beck & Company. ''There's no real reason for the drop other than that.'' 
 The Dow closed down 7.26 points, or less than 0.1 percent, at 10,664.73. Broader stock indicators also dropped, with smaller stocks and technology shares slumping as investors moved to more defensive positions. The S.&P. 500 was down 4.76 points, or 0.41 percent, at 1,147.06. The technology-dominated Nasdaq composite index dropped 30.51 points, or 1.47 percent, to 2,045.96. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies dropped 8.89, or 1.5 percent, to 582.59.
 Declining issues on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbered those advancing by a margin of more than 5 to 3. Volume rose to 1.52 billion shares from 1.38 billion on Wednesday.
 The day's economic news was largely good. Unemployment claims fell, giving some investors hope that company finances might be secure enough to prevent further large-scale layoffs. An index of leading economic indicators rose 0.5 percent, a stronger move than in the two previous months. But the price of crude oil continued to rise, settling in New York yesterday at $36 a barrel, up from $35.45. 
 Hewlett-Packard, a technology industry bellwether company, announced its quarterly earnings after the close of trading, meeting analysts' profit estimates of 35 cents a share. But Hewlett offered a cautious outlook on information technology spending. In regular-session trading, the shares gained 35 cents, to $23.86, and after hours fell to $23.27.
 Applied Materials, a leading maker of chip equipment, lost 18 cents, closing at $22.13, after swinging to a profit in the fourth quarter and surpassing Wall Street estimates. 
 Broadcom, which makes microchips for digital television boxes and other consumer items, adjusted its quarterly revenue estimates upward after Wednesday's session. But yesterday, it fell 90 cents, to $41.56. 
 Nextel Communications, which is considered a prime acquisition target in the wireless telephone industry, shed $1.07, or 3.7 percent, to $27.55, despite posting quarterly earnings that surpassed expectations by 8 cents a share. It said it planned to remain independent, add customers and expand its network.
 Intuit, a leading maker of personal finance software, dropped $3.95, or 8 percent, to $45.24. Despite a better-than-expected earnings report, the company revised the current quarter's outlook downward. 
 Among retailers, Wal-Mart Stores jumped $1.18, or more than 2 percent, to $58.38, after reporting strong earnings in line with analysts' expectations. Executives also indicated that the first quarter would be stronger than previously expected. 
 Target also surpassed analysts forecasts but fell 58 cents, to $41.71. 
 The American depository receipts of the Irish drug maker Elan, which rose 34 percent on Wednesday after an announcement that it would seek early approval for a multiple sclerosis drug it is developing with Biogen Idec, added $1.53 more, to $13.33, on trading of 52 million units. Biogen rose by a further $5.65, or 10.6 percent, to $58.88.
 Treasury debt prices advanced yesterday. The benchmark 10-year note rose 4/32, to 99 24/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, edged down to 4.03 percent from 4.04 percent on Wednesday. The 30-year Treasury bond rose 8/32, to 107 5/32. Its yield fell to 4.89 percent from 4.91 percent.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since October, 2003. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (84%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE SOFTWARE (69%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (63%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (62%); COMPUTER CHIPS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; Russell 2000 Stock Index; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (92%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); BROADCOM CORP (51%); INTUIT INC (50%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (92%); BRCM (NASDAQ) (51%); INTU (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



471 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Urges North Korea to End Nuclear Work

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN and DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
The United States will demand next week that North Korea agree to dismantle all its nuclear weapons and development programs -- including a uranium enrichment program that Pakistan is believed to have supplied in recent years -- as a prerequisite for any assistance, a Bush administration official said Thursday.
 But in a briefing on Thursday, in advance of talks with North Korea in Beijing next week, the administration official said he would not specify whether any commitment to dismantle the uranium enrichment program, along with other weapons programs, had to be explicit, or whether the administration would settle for a more vaguely worded commitment from North Korea to eliminate all its nuclear programs.
 In an administration still split over how hard a line to take in the negotiations, the handling of the uranium program may determine whether the talks move forward or fail.
 Confronted with intelligence gathered by the United States and South Korea, North Korea admitted to American officials in October 2002 that it had an active program to enrich uranium, in addition to its much older effort to turn spent plutonium into a bomb. 
 But it has denied the existence of the uranium program in subsequent meetings, and American intelligence officials said Thursday that they still could not determine where the uranium program was located.
 In recent months, China, citing the failure to find weapons in Iraq, has questioned the quality of American intelligence about the North Korean program and suggested that it should not be a focus of the negotiations, which are to begin on Feb. 25. But the confession last month of Abdul Qadeer Khan, a founder of the Pakistani nuclear program, included an admission that he had provided nuclear technology to North Korea. 
 ''Khan's statements have made it imperative that this program be dismantled right away,'' a senior administration official said Thursday. 
 Echoing what was said at the briefing, but taking a more threatening posture, another senior American official charged in Japan that any failure by North Korea to acknowledge its enriched uranium program could derail the plan for settling the issue without military force.
 ''I think North Korea's unwillingness to discuss the uranium enrichment program could subvert President Bush's determination for a peaceful, diplomatic resolution of the North Korean issue,'' the official, John R. Bolton, under secretary of state for arms control, said in an interview with NHK, the Japanese broadcast network.
 The broader objective of the talks, the official at the briefing in Washington said, would be for North Korea to make a fundamental choice to abandon its nuclear aspirations altogether, as Libya did after lengthy negotiations last year. Otherwise, he argued, there could be no deal that would permit energy or economic assistance to North Korea.
 The official's comments came at a session with reporters arranged before the trip to Beijing next week by the leader of the American delegation, James A. Kelly, assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs.
 Many of the comments echoed a speech by Mr. Kelly last Friday in which he said the American delegation was ''prepared to listen carefully and respond to all positions.'' President Bush said on a trip to Asia last fall that he was willing to spell out security guarantees for North Korea as part of an overall deal. 
 The talks are sponsored by China and also include South Korea, Japan and Russia. American and Asian diplomats say the planning for the negotiations has been difficult, in part because of disagreements between the United States and two partners, China and South Korea. 
 The negotiations have largely focused, so far, on North Korea's decades-old program to produce nuclear weapons by extracting plutonium from spent fuel from its nuclear reactors. North Korea not only has acknowledged that program, but has boasted about it. American intelligence officials believe that the reprocessing operations are still going on. 
 The parallel effort to build a weapon from uranium is believed to be further behind. American officials believe that North Korea obtained from Dr. Khan's network designs and equipment similar to those sold to Libya. 
 But Bush administration officials say they came to know about the uranium program in 2002 and won an admission from North Korea that it existed after Mr. Kelly confronted officials in North Korea in the fall of that year. North Korea now denies that it made such an admission, but American officials reject that denial. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); TERRORISM (66%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (65%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Uranium; Foreign Service; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Steven R Weisman; David E Sanger; John R (Under Sec) Bolton

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) North Korea; Pakistan; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



472 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Teenage Rate Of Pregnancy Drops in U.S.

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
A new state-by-state breakdown of teenage pregnancy and abortion rates in 2000 shows declines among all racial and ethnic groups and in every state, continuing a decade-long trend that researchers attribute to better contraception and less, or more cautious, sexual activity. 
 Over all, the national teenage pregnancy rate declined by 2 percent from 1999 to 2000 and fell by 28 percent from its 1990 peak, according to data the Alan Guttmacher Institute compiled from the most recent figures available. The pregnancy rate among black teenagers dropped even more steeply, by 32 percent in the same period. 
 Nationwide, one-third of pregnancies among 15- to 19-year-olds ended in abortion in 2000, down steadily since 1986, and the rate of abortions per 1,000 women in that age group declined to 24 per 1,000, from a high of 43.5 per 1,000 in the late 1980's.
 But the data released yesterday by the institute, a research group supporting abortion rights, showed that among black teenagers, the percentage of abortion rose to 41.5 percent, from a low of 39.6 percent in 1995.
 Stanley K. Henshaw, a senior fellow at the institute, offered several possible reasons for that increase. One is the withdrawal of Norplant, a contraceptive implant, after lawsuits over difficulty in removing it. In the early 1990's, Dr. Henshaw said, Norplant was popular with black teenage women who had one child, a group also more likely to end a pregnancy through abortion.
 Other reasons, he said, could be changes in the economy and in welfare policy that raised the cost of having a child. An earlier analysis by the institute concluded that from 1994 to 2000, abortion rates increased by more than 23 percent among adolescents and adult women with incomes below 200 percent of the poverty level. For higher-income women, the rate decreased for both age groups by as much as 39 percent.
 The variation among states on all measures is striking. Teenage pregnancy rates in 2000 were highest in Nevada, at 113 per 1,000, and lowest in North Dakota, at 42 per 1,000, well below the national average of 83.6. Abortion rates were highest in New Jersey, with 47 abortions per 1,000 women 15 to 19, followed by New York, with 46 per 1,000; the Connecticut rate was 30 per 1,000. New Jersey also had the highest pregnancy rates among black teenagers, 209 per 1,000; the rate was 167 per 1,000 in New York and not available in Connecticut. New Jersey had the highest percentage of teenage abortions, 60 percent, with New York at 58 percent and Connecticut at 49 percent. Only 13 percent of pregnancies in Kentucky and Utah ended in abortion.
 Pregnancy rates for non-Hispanic white teenagers were highest in Arkansas (77 per 1,000) and lowest in North Dakota (33 per 1,000). For Hispanics, the lowest rates were in Mississippi (71 per 1,000) and the highest in Georgia (169 per 1,000). The lowest rate among black teenagers was in Utah (71 per 1,000). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (94%); ADOLESCENTS (92%); ABORTION (92%); CONTRACEPTION (91%); TRENDS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); WOMEN (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); ETHNICITY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); CHILDREN (69%); POOR POPULATION (69%) Illegitimacy; States (US); Abortion; Pregnancy and Obstetrics; Children and Youth; Blacks; Minorities; Illegitimacy

ORGANIZATION: GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (57%)

PERSON: Nina Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey; Nevada; North Dakota

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



473 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
GREGG, DAVID III

 BODY:
 GREGG--David III, 71, senior advisor to and a founder of the Pierce Financial Corporation, a firm handling venture financing for broadcasting companies and other businesses, died February 15 of a cardiac arrest in Richmond, VA, while racing in a regional Masters swim competition. Mr. Gregg also was a founder and chair of the board of Gator Broadcasting Corporation and a director of the Monument Group of Mutual Funds. His Business experience was extensive. After holding earlier leadership positions in Eastman Dillon, Union Securities & Co, and Blyth & Co, Inc, he was appointed in 1973 executive vice president of the newly formed Overseas Private Investment Corporation, an agency of the US government facilitating US investment in developing nations to enhance global economic and social progress toward democratic market - based economies. His interest in overseas development continued in the 1980s when as executive vice president and director of the Pierce International Corporation, he was engaged in financing housing projects in Venezuela and other development efforts in Latin America. Born in NYC and raised in Darien, CT, Mr. Gregg graduated from Deerfield Academy in Massachusetts, from Yale University with a BA in 1955, and from Columbia University Graduate School of Business with a MBA in 1959. He served in the US Army after college. Mr. Gregg was a member of the Mid-Atlantic Venture Capital Association and a former member of the NY Society of Security Analysts. In addition he was a member and former director of the Ontcora Club, a member of the NY Amateur Ski Club, and a member of the Chesapeake Bay Yacht Club. 
An avid amateur athlete, Mr. Gregg enjoyed skiing and tennis and was an active member of the Fairfax County Masters Swim Team, through which he was nationally ranked in top 10 for Masters breaststroke. Mr. Gregg's first marriage to May Foster Bowers ended in divorce. Mr. Gregg lived in Arlington, VA with his wife, Sarah Massengale Gregg, a vice president for Baxter Healthcare Corporation. He is also survived by two children from his first marriage, Tina Gregg Barkstrom, of Richmond, VA, and Dr. David Gregg IV of San Francisco, his brother Arthur of Chapel Hill, NC and two grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at 11:00 am on February 21st at St. Mary's Episcopal Church Arlington, VA. Interment will be in the family plot in Easton, MD. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions in honor of David Gregg may be sent to Deerfield Academy, Alumni Office, Deerfield, MA 01342 or to Yale University, Office of Development, PO Box 805, New Haven, CT 06503-0805 or to Dr. Jim Miller, President, US Masters Swimming Endowment Fund, PO Box 10, Noblesville, IN 46061. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); SWIMMING (89%); SPORTS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); MARRIAGE (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); AMATEUR SPORTS (77%); SKIING (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); ALUMNI (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); ARMIES (54%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (51%); HEALTH CARE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PIERCE FINANCIAL CORP (91%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (71%); BAXTER HEALTHCARE CORP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (64%)

PERSON: JAMES H MILLER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (91%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



474 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: A Campaign to Remember

BYLINE: By Paul Glastris. 
Paul Glastris is editor in chief of The Washington Monthly.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
No one can doubt that something new happened during the 2004 Democratic primaries: a candidate who lost may have as great an impact on the party's political future as whichever candidate wins. That candidate, of course, is Wesley Clark.
 It is inarguable that Howard Dean put backbone into his fellow Democrats, tapping a powerful vein of anger at the way President Bush is running the country. And, with the help of Joe Trippi, his campaign manager, Dr. Dean devised a potentially revolutionary new model of campaigning by using the Internet to organize volunteers and raise money. In crucial ways, however, General Clark's candidacy changed not only this election but also elections to come. 
 General Clark made national security and electability the crux of his campaign. Before he entered the race, Democrats were suffering from a peculiar cognitive dissonance on national security. For any Democrat running for president in 2004, one question would precede all others: can you make voters feel that they will be safer with you as president than with George W. Bush?
 Only if a candidate could persuade voters that they would be safer would he be able to interest them in other issues like the economy or health care. But most Democrats were afraid to ask the question. This unwillingness to confront the issue of national security made it possible for Democrats to convince themselves that Howard Dean could beat President Bush.
 As soon as General Clark entered the race, however, Democrats could no longer avoid the issue. General Clark leapt to the top of most national polls of likely Democratic voters even though he had no experience in elective office, little name recognition and no staff or money beyond what he was provided by a handful of amateur organizers. And this wasn't just a momentary bump; he stayed near the top of the polls for weeks.
 General Clark's early success had a profound effect on Democrats' expectations. As much as voters liked Howard Dean's message, it was now clear they liked the idea of winning back the White House even more -- and that a governor who'd gone skiing during Vietnam and had a confrontational, even flippant, antiwar message was not going to make that happen.
 In addition to the appeal of his biography, General Clark also brought an informed legitimacy to the Democratic critique of the president's national security policies. Before he entered the race, most of the candidates were talking about the importance of multilateral action -- often in platitudes and generalities. General Clark could explain the specifics of how such actions could win wars and secure peace. Soon the other candidates were parroting his answer. The very fact that a four-star general who for most of his adult life voted Republican was saying that the president had failed the troops made those critiques seem less partisan and more credibile.
 General Clark had another profound influence on this campaign: with the possible exception of Joseph Lieberman, he was the most willing to talk openly about his religious faith.
 This was another area of cognitive dissonance for Democrats. Most voters -- including most Democratic voters -- take religion seriously, and prefer a candidate who does so as well. But perhaps out of fear of giving offense to secularist voters, most of the Democratic presidential hopefuls had remained largely silent about faith, effectively ceding to the president the language of faith and morality that resonates with so many Americans.
 In his speeches and interviews, however, General Clark spoke with evident sincerity and knowledge about faith, especially his own. Other Democratic candidates soon followed, including Howard Dean. Yet Dr. Dean's comments -- such as how he left a church in Vermont over a dispute about a bike path -- tended to raise as many questions as they answered about his religious convictions. In short, they made him seem less genuine and more like a typical politician.
 A final legacy of General Clark's campaign may be the way in which he entered the race: by getting drafted. A dozen years ago, Ross Perot was essentially drafted to run for president, but that movement took place outside the two-party system. Primary voters have usually been forced to choose from among self-nominated candidates fueled by their own ambition. The Clark draft showed the viability of an alternative: Democratic (or Republican) voters acting on their own could choose the candidate most to their liking and lure him into the race with pledges of money and a ready-made volunteer army.
 Had General Clark decided to contest Iowa a month ago, he almost certainly would have done well, and he might well be winning the race right now. Instead, John Kerry, the establishment candidate, is the current leader in Democratic presidential campaign. In many ways he owes his position to the revolution that General Clark started. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); SKIING (68%); TERRORISM (59%); INTERNET & WWW (55%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (71%) Paul Glastris; Wesley K (Gen) (Ret) Clark; Howard (Dr) Dean

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



475 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: NEW YORK

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: EDWARDS ARRIVES IN NEW YORK, SET TO IMPEDE KERRY

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. and RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
Senator John Edwards on Thursday brought his populist campaign to New York, a state that has become an unexpected battleground that may offer him a last-ditch opportunity to slow Senator John Kerry's momentum and keep his own bid for the presidency alive.
 Mr. Edwards landed in New York City and started the scramble for the state's rich lode of 236 delegates by declaring that the economy was in a shambles, in no small part because of the avarice of multinational corporations. 
 ''It is not good enough to serve the interests of shareholders and executives but sacrifice the needs of ordinary people who work for a living,'' Mr. Edwards, of North Carolina, declared this morning at Columbia University, sounding his standard promise to end a system of two Americas, divided by wealth and privilege. 
 In recent years, New York has not played a decisive role in Democratic presidential primaries, partly because its contest has taken place late in the primary season. Not since 1988, when Michael S. Dukakis fought out the nomination against Senator Al Gore and the Rev. Jesse Jackson, has the state really mattered in the crucial delegate count buildup.
 But, after Mr. Kerry's string of Democratic primary and caucus victories across the nation, New York has taken on new significance. Mr. Edwards asserts he will focus his efforts to stop Mr. Kerry, of Massachusetts, in New York, Ohio and Georgia.
 ''Who would have ever thought that the New York primary might make or break a candidate,'' said Charles E. Schumer, New York's senior senator.
 On landing in New York City, Mr. Edwards, a first-term Democratic senator, has stepped into a state known for its complicated and contradictory electoral politics. It is a state divided north and south, urban and suburban, with fault lines built around unions, race, religion and ethnicity.
 It has powerful fund-raisers who are sought out by candidates around the country and a vast media network that is both a curse and blessing to those who try to get their message across.
 In sum, it has tripped up many homegrown candidates, not to mention those from other places.
 Mr. Edwards has vowed to campaign aggressively in upstate cities and in pockets of New York City's outer boroughs where working-class people have lost jobs in recent years as more and more companies have moved their operations overseas, his aides say. He plans to barnstorm the state for five days, appearing on three of those days in Buffalo, Albany and Rochester, which have been particularly hard hit by plant closings and that may be more receptive to his message.
 But it is far from certain Mr. Edwards's tactic of going after voters in economically hard-pressed regions upstate will work because most of the state's Democratic primary voters come from New York City and its suburbs, political strategists say. 
 In the 2000 Democratic presidential primary, for example, upstate accounted for 30 percent of the statewide electorate, compared with about 53 percent in New York City and 17 percent in New York City's suburbs: Westchester, Rockland, Nassau and Suffolk counties. The 70-to-30 downstate-upstate ratio was consistent with previous primaries. 
 ''The problem with the numbers is most of the voters in the primary are in the New York metropolitan area,'' said Lee M. Miringoff, the director of the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion. ''So there is only so much you can get statewide by doing well upstate.''
 A leading New York Democratic strategist, speaking on the condition of anonymity, put the problem more bluntly. ''Edwards's populist message of job loss works well upstate because it's a fading industrial area that's a lot like other parts of the country where he has done well,'' the strategist said. ''But in New York Democratic primaries, upstate is not where the votes are.''
 Democrats like Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Mr. Schumer have campaigned heavily upstate in recent years, showing in general elections that they can make inroads into what was once considered a Republican bastion by talking about jobs. But unlike the primaries in other states, only Democrats can vote in New York's Democratic primary.
 Downstate the issues are much different form those upstate. Voters in the suburbs of New York City are more focused on property taxes and education, two issues that seldom become part of the national political debate. The city itself tends to be dominated by traditional liberal Democrats, for whom civil rights, the environment and a solid social safety net for the poor are important. 
 Political strategists say it remains to be seen how Mr. Edwards's brand of populism will be received in New York City. His supporters say many financial institutions and other service-sector employers in the city have begun to move some of their back-office operations to places like India, so the issue of jobs going overseas may resonate in the city as well.
 But getting that message across may be challenging. With 10 states going to the polls on March 2, officials from both campaigns acknowledged that neither candidate has the resources to saturate the major media markets with television advertising. That means newspaper endorsements and television coverage on major networks could play an important role, several strategists said.
 ''Free media is going to be the No. 1 factor in this election,'' said Bill de Blasio, a city councilman who is a co-chairman of the Edwards campaign in New York. ''Both campaigns are going to be struggling.''
 Another open question is where blacks and Latinos, who wield considerable power in a Democratic primary, will throw their support. Blacks and Hispanics account for about a third of the vote in a statewide Democratic primaries, though they are no longer a monolithic voting block in general elections.
 They can often play a pivotal role if the white vote splits, and racially charged issues can quickly become decisive in New York elections. This is a state, too, where Mr. Jackson came in second in the Democratic primary in 1988.
 The Rev. Al Sharpton, the only black candidate still in the race, is barely in the mix, with recent polls showing him in the single digits, despite the fact that New York is his home state. Yet, Mr. Sharpton is doing his best to stir things up, including injecting race into the contest.
 On Thursday, Mr. Sharpton called on federal prosecutors to open an investigation in the case of a white police officer in Brooklyn who shot an unarmed, 19-year-old black on the roof of a public housing building.
 ''I'm also here to say that everyone on the ballot running for president on March 2 should not campaign in New York without taking a position on this case,'' he said. ''Police conduct, police misconduct and racial profiling is as much a presidential campaign issue as ethanol is in Iowa.''
 Another major force in New York politics is organized labor, which has mastered the art of getting out the vote, particularly in New York City and in the state's other urban areas. 
 One of the most potent political machines in the state belongs to Dennis Rivera, the leader of the largest health workers union, S.E.I.U./1199. Mr. Rivera had supported Howard Dean, the former Vermont governor, who ended his active campaign for president on Wednesday. With Dr. Dean out of the race, Mr. Rivera is leaning toward endorsing Mr. Kerry, people close to Mr. Rivera say. Other major unions are still up for grabs, among them the United Federation of Teachers and the Civil Service Employees Association.
 One difference in this year's contest is the grass-roots movement that Dr. Dean assembled before he withdrew from active campaigning. He has a formidable network of 70,000 volunteer organizers in the state, who proved their power when they collected 105,000 signatures to put him on the ballot, far more than any other candidate.
 Most of the elected officials who supported Dr. Dean are gravitating toward Mr. Kerry. But it is unclear where many of the rank-and-file Dean followers will go and whether they will sway the vote, much in the way the unions have in the past. Ethan Geto, Dean's campaign director in New York, predicts they may well go with Mr. Edwards. 
 ''Among the grass-roots people, there is a widespread antipathy toward Kerry,'' Mr. Geto said.
 Some political professionals wonder whether Mr. Edwards can win the hearts of a majority of voters by campaigning across the state with his populist message, instead of concentrating solely on New York City and Buffalo, as many Democrats have done before him.
 ''It seems unorthodox,'' Ken Sunshine, a longtime Democratic strategist, said. ''But on the other hand, there's been nothing orthodox about this election. Who could have predicted that this would be such a roller coaster year?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator John Edwards of North Carolina spoke yesterday at Columbia University, drawing some notice. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Laura Hwang held a sign yesterday outside Columbia University, where Senator John Edwards spoke. He plans to spend five days in the state. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (88%); CAUCUSES (79%); FUNDRAISING (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); RELIGION (62%); CLOSINGS (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (55%) Presidential Election of 2004; Primaries; United States Economy; Labor; Unemployment; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%) Columbia University

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (94%); JOHN KERRY (92%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%); AL GORE (59%); JESSE JACKSON (52%) John (Sen) Edwards; James C Jr Mckinley; Raymond Hernandez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



476 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Washington's Arabic TV Effort Gets Mixed Reviews

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: CAIRO, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
An American-sponsored satellite television station broadcasting in Arabic, probably Washington's biggest propaganda effort since the attempts to undermine the Soviet bloc and the Castro government, is drawing mixed reviews in the Middle East, ranging from praise for slick packaging to criticism for trying to improve the image of ''Satan.''
 Those watching the station, which started over the weekend with an interview with President Bush, find some appeal in the mix of news and pop culture. But many remain wary of the underlying political message.
 The Bush administration began Al Hurra, whose name means the Free One, with the announced intent of challenging Al Jazeera and other Arab satellite stations frequently critical of American policy.
 Some differences in tone between Al Hurra and the Arab broadcasters were immediately apparent, like references to the ''coalition forces'' in Iraq rather than the ''occupation forces.'' 
 Instead of referring to Palestinians trying to free themselves from the Israeli occupation, one anchor asked an analyst whether the Palestinians were ready to abandon their ''historical dispute'' for the economic prosperity surely to follow.
 The station is being pilloried in the Arab press as a propaganda arm of the United States government, trying to gloss over America's anti-Arab bias. Analysts have labeled it ''Fox News in Arabic'' and a spiritual descendant of TV Marti, the American government's anti-Castro broadcasts in Cuba.
 The station is not yet available in all markets. Given that it has been on the air just a few days, academics and other professionals say it is too early to say whether its journalistic credentials will overcome the taint of being underwritten by the American government.
 ''The people they have hired look modern, hip, and the beat is fast, but it won't have an impact on the perception of the United States,'' predicted Mustafa B. Hamarneh, director of the Center for Strategic Studies at the University of Jordan. 
 ''I think the Americans are mistaken if they assume they can change their image in the region,'' he said. ''People became anti-American because they don't like American policies.''
 The Virginia-based station, with a budget of $62 million for the first year, is the latest in a series of attempts to improve the dismal standing of America in the Arab world. Some have fallen flat, like a series of television spots called hopelessly naive because they focused on non-issues like freedom of religion in the United States.
 Another effort, Radio Sawa, or Together, proved more resilient since it started broadcasting two years ago with a combination of pop music and rapid-fire news broadcasts, much like AM radio fare in the United States. But it also spawned competitors, and some Jordanians, for example, say those who tired of the relentlessly American point of view abandoned the station.
 Much criticism of Al Hurra in the Arab press and among people interviewed on the streets focused on the vast gap in perception between Washington and the Arab world. 
 While President Bush spoke about the need to foster freedom and democracy in the Arab world in his interview, for example, critics say he has done nothing concrete to encourage Prime Minister Ariel Sharon to end Israel's occupation of Arab lands and note that the United States has now occupied Iraq.
 ''As long as this policy continues, any attempt to improve this image will ultimately be no more than an attempt to market a new face for Satan,'' wrote Muhammad Abdalah Nab, a columnist on the news Web site Elaph. ''Only one Apache, which American policy makers gave to Sharon for free to kill unarmed children, women and elderly Palestinians, makes the mission of this channel not only difficult, but impossible and stupid at the same time.''
 Salem Hamad, 22, a resident of Gaza City, said he had watched the station a few times but would most likely switch back to Al Jazeera. He was bracing for the day that Al Hurra station labeled a Palestinian attack against the Israelis as terrorism.
 ''They will renovate the image of the Americans, but they will sell the idea that Palestinians are terrorists,'' he said.
 Al Jazeera's critics in the Arab world find its news analysis or talk shows overly influenced by old Arab nationalist ideas or those of Islamic movements, but it broke taboos with its coverage of breaking news and its discussions of repression in Arab countries and other touchy topics.
 One reason Al Jazeera won such a huge following is by broadcasting unvarnished, often gory reports about the Arab-Israeli dispute, something government-run stations in the Arab world long avoided for fear of igniting restive populations. 
 Al Jazeera also gives a higher priority to breaking news on the Palestinian front than any other story, again reflecting widespread Arab sentiment. In the newscasts on Monday, for example, Al Jazeera led its afternoon broadcasts with a report that the Palestinian prime minister, Ahmed Qurei, might meet with Mr. Sharon. On Al Hurra the report was the third or fourth news item broadcast for much of the day, but it ultimately led the main evening news bulletin.
 While Al Jazeera was broadcasting live the afternoon briefing from Baghdad given by a United States general and the senior United States civilian spokesman, Al Hurra was showing a documentary about the actor Anthony Hopkins.
 Al Hurra broadcasts only 14 hours a day, and many programs are repeated several times. There is a technology program subtitled in Arabic, with segments called ''Hot Topic'' and ''Cool Stuff,'' as well as a magazine show that talks about exercise, fashion and movies.
 Some of the segments would be unlikely to appear on other Arab channels. The technology show included a report about a man arrested in the United States for going on the Internet pretending that he was his aunt and soliciting sex, because he was mad at her. A segment on a chic Moscow night club included a shot of a bare-chested male bartender.
 Some viewers praised the documentaries, also shown in English with subtitles, which are a rarity on Arab channels. Viewers also suggested that the calm tone of the talk shows might influence the scream fests on Arab satellite shows.
 Between programs, Al Hurra presents unsubtle promotional spots. Heavy orchestral music surges behind images of horses running free, or men walking against the crowd, or eye after eye opening wide. ''You think, you aspire, you chose, you express, you are free, Al Hurra, just the way you are,'' read the text on one.
 There was some public giggling about the channel's name. ''I've neither watched Al Hurra nor Al Abda,'' joked Sad Saleh al-Folihi, a laborer in the Yemeni capital of Sana, using the Arabic word for slave.
 Hussein Amin, chairman of the department of mass communication at the American University in Cairo, noted that the station had been introduced when the standing of the United States was at an all-time low in this part of the world. It takes years for any station to establish its credibility, even one not facing such a hurdle, he said.
 ''Their credibility is open to question right now,'' he said. ''If they take the position of the U.S. and color everything with its policies, then people will reject the message and it will not achieve success in any form.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: When President Zine el-Abidine ben Ali of Tunisia met with President Bush in Washington on Wednesday, Al Hurra broadcast the event.
Also on Wednesday, Al Hurra broadcast a scene from Senator John Kerry's campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination.
 Egyptians in a coffee shop in a suburb of Alexandria played dominoes while some patrons looked at Al Hurra, the new Arabic-language cable television channel run by the United States government. (Photographs by Mohamed el-Dakhakhny for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE TELEVISION (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); BUDGETS (71%); POP & ROCK (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); RELIGION (64%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (50%) Television; United States International Relations; Arabic Language; Propaganda; Palestinians; News and News Media 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: TV MARTI (54%) Al Hurra (Satellite TV Station)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Neil Macfarquhar

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); JORDAN (92%); ISRAEL (92%); CUBA (90%); EGYPT (79%); IRAQ (79%) Middle East; Israel

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



477 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Bush Promotes His Tax Cuts As Beneficiaries Stand By

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
President Bush promoted his tax cuts on Thursday at a hastily arranged ''conversation'' on the economy with tax-cut recipients selected by the administration, but at the last minute the White House closed the meeting to journalists.
 Mr. Bush later appeared with the recipients standing silently behind him as he told their tax-cut stories on a stage of the Eisenhower Executive Office Building next to the White House. 
 ''Maybe the best way I can make my point to the tax-raisers and spenders here in Washington is to listen to the stories of people like Amy Cofer,'' Mr. Bush said, indicating a pregnant woman who stood behind him for his 24 minutes of remarks. ''She is a mom of two, soon to be a mom of three.''
 Ms. Cofer and her husband, Mr. Bush said, had saved $1,700 in taxes in 2003. If Congress did not make his tax cuts permanent, he said, Ms. Cofer's family would suffer.
 ''It's a new family, a new child coming, doesn't make sense to have this family pay a thousand dollars,'' Mr. Bush said.
 It was unclear why the White House did not allow Ms. Cofer or the other recipients to speak for themselves. Scott McClellan, the White House press secretary, would say only that the White House often closed round-table discussions to journalists.
 In fact, however, Mr. Bush has had at least three ''conversations'' on the economy in the last three weeks, in New Hampshire, Florida and Pennsylvania, and all were open and lengthy.
 The most recent one, in Tampa, Fla., on Monday, also included some recipients who seemed to veer off the point that was most helpful to the White House, which is the theme of how the president's tax cuts have improved their lives. As a result, Mr. Bush had to steer them back to the subject at hand.
 Striking the same theme on Thursday, Mr. Bush said Democrats in Congress would raise taxes by their unwillingness to make many of his cuts permanent.
 ''The Congress giveth, the Congress taketh away,'' he said to a crowd that included numerous White House interns who were told by their superiors to attend at the last minute, to make sure the room was filled. 
 ''See, if Congress doesn't do anything,'' Mr. Bush added, ''there will be tax increases on the American people. That's what that means. When you hear, 'We're going to repeal the Bush tax cuts,' that means tax increases.''
 Mr. Bush also said 11 million taxpayers this year would save an average of $1,086 on their 2003 returns, 
 Mr. Bush's remarks represented the third time in four days he has spoken out about the economy at a time when Democrats have stepped up their attacks on what they call Mr. Bush's dismal economic record. In recent opinion polls, Mr. Bush is trailing the top two Democratic presidential candidates, Senators John Kerry and John Edwards, by double digits, and Republicans are increasingly anxious for the president to begin more overt campaigning.
 This week, the White House has tried to regain its balance after N. Gregory Mankiw, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, created a furor when he said there were some economic benefits to American jobs moving overseas.
 The White House has also sought to tamp down the clamor created when it had to back off a rosy prediction about job gains on Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush speaking yesterday about his tax cuts. (Photo by Carol T. Powers/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); FAMILY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); WRITERS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%) Taxation; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; News and News Media; United States Economy

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) George W (Pres) Bush; Elisabeth Bumiller

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



478 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Schwarzenegger Selling Bond Act, and Himself

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: SANTA MONICA, Calif., Feb. 19 

 BODY:
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger likes to say that he can sell just about anything, citing the box office figures for his more dreadful movies like ''Red Sonja'' and ''Last Action Hero.''
 But he has taken on a difficult sales job in trying to persuade debt-burdened California voters to approve $15 billion in new long-term borrowing to pay the state's current operating expenses. Recent polls suggest that voters are at best uncertain about the wisdom of adding debt in an era of political and economic malaise. 
 Mr. Schwarzenegger is traveling the state and appearing in a $10 million advertising campaign urging passage of the bond measure. He has warned of ''Armageddon cuts'' and ''fiscal chaos'' if it fails.
 The governor is raising millions of dollars and campaigning as if not only the state's financial health but also his own political future depends on passage.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger, a Republican, appeared in Santa Monica on Thursday with the state's senior Democrat, Senator Dianne Feinstein, to urge passage of the bond measure and a companion proposal to forbid such borrowing in the future and to require the state Legislature to enact a balanced budget in all future years. The two measures, known as Propositions 57 and 58, will appear on the March 2 ballot that also includes the Democratic presidential primary candidates.
 The newly competitive Democratic race is expected to increase turnout, a mixed blessing for the governor. While state Democratic leaders have endorsed the bond issue, Democratic voters appear more reluctant than Republicans to support it, according to recent polls.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger said Thursday that he was fighting an uphill battle and spoke of ''down in the trenches, hand-to-hand combat.'' Senator Feinstein said the measures' failure would create huge budget problems and ''a dark, dark day for California.''
 Some analysts say that if Mr. Schwarzenegger cannot win passage of the bond issue, he will lose much of the leverage he wields over a balky Legislature dominated by Democrats. The governor enjoys a healthy 61 percent approval rating as he approaches the 100-day mark in his new administration.
 ''I think that success on these two ballot measures is crucial to his success in his term as governor,'' said Elizabeth Garrett, director of the Center for the Study of Law and Politics, run jointly by the University of Southern California and the California Institute of Technology. ''He has governed by threat of initiative, the threat of taking his popularity to the people if the Legislature doesn't do his bidding. If he loses, that threat is no longer a credible threat, and it not only spells financial disaster for the state but political disaster for the governor.''
 A poll to be released on Friday by the Public Policy Institute of California shows the public split evenly on the bond measure, with 38 percent favoring passage and the same number favoring defeat. Democrats oppose the proposition by 44 percent to 34 percent, while Republicans support it, 45 percent to 33 percent, the poll found.
 The large number of undecided voters -- 24 percent -- indicates that a persuasive public campaign could swing the vote in the governor's favor. Mr. Schwarzenegger is planning a statewide television blitz over the next 12 days and a bus tour next weekend to drum up support.
 Aides to the governor say that their internal polling shows a higher level of support for the proposals. They said they were confident that a high-profile campaign by the governor and groups from across the political spectrum would ensure success.
 The California Democratic Party has endorsed the measures and the state Republican Party is expected to do so at a meeting this weekend. Groups usually at one another's throats -- the Western Growers Association and the United Farm Workers, the Chamber of Commerce and the A.F.L.-C.I.O. -- have lined up behind the proposals.
 Conservative groups worry that if the measures fail, the state's bond rating will fall even lower and the governor will be tempted to raise taxes to balance the budget. Liberals fear deep cuts in social services and layoffs of staff employees if voters reject the new borrowing.
 There is no organized opposition to the proposals. The two most vocal opponents are Phil Angelides, the liberal Democratic state treasurer, and State Senator Tom McClintock, the conservative Republican who ran for governor last year in the crowded recall field. They have no money to mount a campaign against the measures. 
 They call the borrowing plan irresponsible and a costly way to solve the state's immediate financial crisis. Mr. McClintock prefers across-the-board spending cuts to balance the budget. Mr. Angelides says Mr. Schwarzenegger should propose a temporary increase in income taxes on the state's wealthiest residents, as two former Republican governors, Pete Wilson and Ronald Reagan, did to deal with similar problems.
 ''It bothers me that the governor is spending all his political capital to borrow and burden our children with debt,'' said Mr. Angelides, who is a likely candidate for governor in 2006. ''It bothers me that he doesn't have the courage to do what is necessary to move toward a balanced budget and preserve critical programs.''
 The governor has raised more than $10 million since taking office in November, most of which will be used to promote the measures. The donations are not subject to limits because they are being used to advocate passage of a ballot initiative rather than a candidate.
 State officials are preparing a ''Plan B'' in case the $15 billion bond issue fails. The backup plan includes a smaller debt offering and deep cuts in state spending.
 But Mr. Schwarzenegger does not like to talk about the consequences of failure and declined on Thursday to discuss the options for the state if voters reject the ballot measures.
 ''There is no what-if,'' he said. ''I don't think this way. I only think of victory.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger appeared yesterday with Steven Westly, the California state controller, and Senator Dianne Feinstein. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BOND ISSUES (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); BALLOTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); APPROVALS (76%); POLITICS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%) Finances; Government Bonds; Election Issues; Referendums; Public Opinion; Elections; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (93%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (78%) Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger; John M Broder

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) California

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



479 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CHALLENGERS

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: A.F.L.-C.I.O., Calling for Unity, Gives Backing to Kerry

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and RICK LYMAN; David M. Halbfinger reported from Washington for this article, and Rick Lyman from Savannah, Ga.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry won the endorsement of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. on Thursday as Senator John Edwards called trade and job losses a ''moral issue'' and repeatedly pressed for debates with Mr. Kerry. 
 The leaders of the federation of 13 million labor union members endorsed Mr. Kerry as the Democratic primary struggle largely narrowed to a two-man race and focused on the economy and trade.
 ''We've had four years to see who George Bush fights for in this country,'' Mr. Kerry said in front of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. headquarters, two blocks from the White House. ''And we're here to say to working people across this country, 'In November, it's going to be your turn.' '' 
 Mr. Kerry's strategists hope that the endorsement will further establish him as the likely presidential nominee and extinguish the spark that Mr. Edwards's campaign received from a surprisingly strong second-place finish on Tuesday in the Wisconsin primary.
 Outside the headquarters of the federation, its president, John J. Sweeney, made clear labor's view that the time for contested primaries was over. 
 ''Today,'' Mr. Sweeney said, ''we know the time has come to unite behind one man, one leader, one candidate.''
 Mr. Edwards, who has placed a battle for hard-pressed working people at the center of his campaign, said that although he had ''high regard'' for the labor federation, he was not overly concerned about the endorsement.
 ''I've done extremely well with union households,'' he said, ''and I think that will continue.'' 
 A spokeswoman for the labor organization, Lane Windham, said the vote by its general board was unanimous, though two unions abstained. They were Unite, the apparel workers' union that has endorsed Mr. Edwards, and the United Automobile Workers.
 As he campaigned from New York to Georgia, 2 of the 10 ''Super Tuesday'' primary states that vote on March 2, Mr. Edwards pressed for debates between him and Mr. Kerry, events that would give Mr. Edwards valuable exposure. 
 ''I think it would be a real loss for our party if Senator Kerry and I didn't debate right here in New York,'' Mr. Edwards said to more than 700 people on Thursday at Columbia University. ''We should debate wherever and whenever the voters want us to, because this election is too important not to.''
 Speaking later at Clark Atlanta University, he pushed again for a debate with Mr. Kerry, saying it should be held in Georgia. 
 Mr. Edwards told reporters that there should be as many debates as possible in the next few weeks and in as many states as can be arranged.
 ''I will come to New York, I will come to California, I will go anywhere in America to debate,'' he said, ''because the people of the United States deserve to hear a debate on these issues.'' 
 After holding out for days, Mr. Kerry agreed to participate in a debate next week to be sponsored by CNN and The Los Angeles Times. Mr. Edwards, the Rev. Al Sharpton and Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio had already agreed to participate.
 Mr. Kerry has not agreed to a debate run by the League of Women Voters scheduled for Sunday in Los Angeles. If he does not agree, the league said it would probably cancel the event. 
 Mr. Kerry's campaign aides said that their candidate had a busy schedule and could not go to every proposed debate. 
 ''We've got 10 contests in a little more than 10 days, and John Kerry is competing in each and every one of them,'' a spokeswoman, Stephanie Cutter, said. ''We want to communicate with voters in the best way possible and thought that the debate in Los Angeles next week was the best way to do so.''
 In speeches on Thursday, Mr. Edwards continued to hammer at trade policy.
 ''This is a moral issue, and it's about right and wrong,'' he said. ''It's not enough to drive up stock prices if it drives down wages.''
 Mr. Edwards said he would support just those trade pacts that included strong labor and environmental standards, a position that would result in more work for Americans. As president, he added, he would work to dismantle trade agreements that let American companies ''move to another country and hire children to make their products.''
 Mr. Kerry's campaign fired off e-mail messages to reporters that attacked Mr. Edwards as a Johnny-come-lately on trade. Ms. Cutter circulated a major speech on economics that Mr. Edwards gave in June.
 ''There's one thing missing from this speech: trade,'' Ms. Cutter wrote. ''Apparently, cracking down on unfair trade practices and promoting fair and balanced trade was not a priority to John Edwards just eight months ago.'' 
 Strategists for Mr. Edwards have said he will need to win some major states before mid-March to keep his candidacy alive. His schedule over the next few days has him making several stops in three big Super Tuesday prizes, New York, Ohio and Georgia. 
 The Super Tuesday primaries include some of the most expensive media markets, and there are questions about how effectively Mr. Edwards will be able to compete. 
 Officials said on Thursday that the campaign had raised $4.2 million since the senator's second-place finish in the Iowa caucuses on Jan. 19, including $700,000 since his second-place finish in Wisconsin on Tuesday. Two fund-raising events on Wednesday in New Jersey accounted for $250,000 of the total. 
 After Mr. Edwards spoke in Atlanta, he left for yet another fund-raiser, in Miami.
 Mr. Edwards continued his policy of refraining from direct attacks on Mr. Kerry, a policy that he takes care to point out to each audience.
 Mr. Kerry, too, refrained from criticizing his opponent directly. Surrogates did it for him.
 Across the day, Mr. Edwards was greeted by supporters. Nancy Wells, 55, broke into tears as she listened to him in Atlanta. When he mentioned people whose jobs had moved abroad, Ms. Wells raised her hand and shouted, ''I'm one!''
 Since she lost her position as an accountant for Siemens in Gainesville, Ga., and had a lot of time on her hands, she decided to volunteer for Mr. Edwards's campaign.
 ''I believe he is the one who can beat George Bush,'' Ms. Wells said. ''He's got that Southern thing going for him. He will hand you your guts on a platter, and you will thank him for it before you even feel the knife.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry greeted supporters yesterday at a rally after an A.F.L.-C.I.O. board meeting in Washington, where he won an endorsement. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Endorsements; Organized Labor; Labor; International Trade and World Market; Primaries; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (94%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) John (Sen) Edwards; John (Sen) Kerry; David M Halbfinger; Rick Lyman

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



480 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: TRADE

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Edwards Notes Differences On Issue of World Trade

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
Senator John Edwards, seeking to distinguish himself in Democratic presidential primaries from Senator John Kerry, has seized on the matter of international trade, a major issue in several states that have lost jobs to competition from abroad.
 But their differences are fairly small and stem mainly from their voting histories rather than where they are now or how they say they would handle trade agreements in the future.
 Mr. Edwards says that had he been in the Senate in 1993, when it passed the North American Free Trade Agreement and President Bill Clinton signed it, he would have voted against it. He says he campaigned against it in his 1998 Senate race, but newspaper clippings show it was not a major issue, in part because his opponent, Senator Lauch Faircloth, a Republican, was against it, too. 
 But once in the Senate, Mr. Edwards voted for a trade accord with China in 2000, and he initially supported a bill to give President Bush sweeping new authority to negotiate trade deals.
 Mr. Kerry has been a classic free trader in the Clinton mold, supporting free markets as the key to economic growth. He backed President Bush's push for fast-track negotiating authority. But now on the campaign trail, he stands side by side with labor leaders who oppose Nafta and pledges that as president, he would review the pacts he supported.
 The transformation of these two candidates on trade, which is now the hottest issue in the Democratic contest, highlights the peculiar dynamics of the race as it narrows to a two-man field. While Mr. Edwards has been seeking to highlight their differences on the issue, Mr. Kerry told reporters on Wednesday, ''We have the same policy on trade.'' 
 Even though Mr. Kerry, 60, comes out of a liberal Northeastern tradition and Mr. Edwards, 50, comes out of a conservative Southern tradition, they are both trying to appeal to voters anxious over the shift overseas of manufacturing and white-collar jobs and to not antagonize organized labor, which has opposed the accords.
 ''Sure they are similar,'' said Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota. ''Both of them are in the mainstream of the Democratic caucus in the United States Senate with respect to issues of health care, jobs and the economy.''
 Making distinctions may also help give Mr. Edwards, who has lost all but one state in the primaries this year, a rationale to continue his candidacy. For Mr. Kerry, who has won all but two states, minimizing their differences helps minimize the rationale for Mr. Edwards.
 ''Trying to differentiate between these guys on policy grounds is virtually impossible,'' said Thomas Mann, an expert on Congress at the Brookings Institution.
 ''Edwards really has to reach to try to make this a fight about trade,'' Mr. Mann said, but he saw several reasons for him to try to do so.
 He said there was political room because Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the candidate most prominently against trade agreements, had dropped out. He said the issue resonated in industrial states that have lost manufacturing jobs. And, he said, it works as an emotional issue.
 ''Even though Americans aren't overwhelmingly protectionist -- we don't elect people who are explicitly protectionist -- it is an issue that can catch hold under tough economic times,'' Mr. Mann said. ''And the delayed response in the job market to the economic recovery makes it all the more useful.''
 Mr. Edwards says the distinctions he is drawing are real.
 He did approve China's entry into the World Trade Organization, which opened one of the world's biggest markets to American industry. And he voted initially to give the president authority to negotiate trade agreements as long they contained certain labor provisions.
 But when those protections were stripped out of the bill, Mr. Edwards voted against final passage, while Mr. Kerry voted for it.
 Mr. Edwards also voted against smaller trade deals for African and Caribbean nations, while Mr. Kerry supported them. Even though these agreements opened up the American market to some of the poorest nations, Mr. Edwards said they would have hurt the textile mills and workers in his home state, North Carolina. The only free trade accord he supported was with Jordan, which has labor standards in the pact.
 Mr. Edwards insists that protection for labor and environmental standards must be part of the texts of trade agreements because that is the only way to enforce them. Mr. Kerry says they can be accommodated in side agreements. This is probably their central dispute.
 Mr. Kerry has voted for all trade agreements since the cold war ended and opened the way for increasing globalization. But on the presidential trail, he has become a skeptic and now promises to review them.
 Standing at a rally on Thursday in Washington with John Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which endorsed him, Mr. Kerry said he would crack down on corporations that send jobs overseas.
 Mr. Edwards would also penalize corporations that send jobs abroad. But he personalizes the issue by reminding voters that he is the son of a millworker and understands the devastation caused by losing a job.
 While their histories on trade have differed, those differences tended to reflect their home-state interests. Massachusetts has lost much of its manufacturing base and now relies heavily on the high-tech and financial services industries. North Carolina is more of a mixed picture. Its textile industry is being undermined by inexpensive imports. But North Carolina is one of the fastest-growing states and its high-tech and banking industries are thriving, with far less to fear from foreign competition.
 Mark Sanford, the Republican governor of South Carolina, who has pushed the Bush administration to be tougher on China's trade policies, said, ''Trade, in fact, is a surprisingly bipartisan issue -- you vote with your state, not your party.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CAUCUSES (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); LIBERALISM (68%); RELOCATIONS (67%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues ; International Trade and World Market; North American Free Trade Agreement; Labor; Relocation of Business; Organized Labor; Presidential Election of 2004; Primaries

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); BYRON DORGAN (59%) John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards; Katharine Q Seelye; Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



481 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7; Residential Real Estate

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Prestigious Co-ops Nearing Price Peaks of 4 Years Ago

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
Amid a surge of interest from Wall Street buyers, the price of a prestigious Park Avenue address is now approaching levels not seen since the real estate market peaked four years ago and then tumbled along with a declining stock market, brokers say.
 A study of the most expensive co-ops in the city, typically large prewar apartments on the Upper East Side and Central Park with grand views, found that average prices of high-end apartments, defined as those costing more than $4 million, surged nearly 15 percent last year, to $7.2 million. That figure was 5 percent below the peak of the market in 2000. 
 The study's author, Kirk Henckels, director of private brokerage at Stribling & Associates, said the sales of these luxury homes accelerated throughout the fall, with prices rising further in agreements reached in the last few weeks in exclusive Fifth Avenue and Park Avenue buildings. 
 The study identified 91 luxury co-ops that sold for more than $4 million last year, a number that included 15 higher-priced trophy homes selling for more than $10 million each. There were more sales in the last half of 2003 than during the first half of 2000, when the market hit a peak, Mr. Henckels said. ''In co-ops the pressure has continued,'' he said. ''We have some outstanding town houses available, but in co-ops there is precious little left to sell.''
 This finding is supported by other brokers, who say that a surge of buyers, buoyed by end-of-year Wall Street bonuses, entered the market intent on taking advantage of extraordinarily low interest rates. Interest rates have long been credited with driving up demand for lower-priced housing across the city and the country, but the link to the luxury housing market has traditionally been more tenuous. 
 This resulted in frequent bidding wars, little in evidence in the luxury market for several years, and a decline in the inventory of available apartments. Now with prices rising, many prospective sellers are afraid to put their apartments on the market until they can buy a new one first, further driving down supply.
 Kathleen M. Sloane, a vice president and director at Brown Harris Stevens, said that the market came to a halt last spring at the time of the Iraq war, and that the peak spring selling season was delayed until July. But for the last few months, she has regularly worked 12-hour days to keep up with the demand for apartments. ''Since mid-December we have been engaged in bidding wars in every single transaction'' she said.
 Frederick W. Peters, president of Warburg Realty, said the luxury market had ''turned 180 degrees in 12 months.''
 ''By the early fall,'' he said, ''there were bidding wars, with both bidders below the asking price. Later in the year, the winning bidder would typically be at the asking price. Now the winner is over the asking price.''
 The study by Mr. Henckels also found that sales of single-family town houses were strong, with prices and sales up, and with 46 sales over $4 million, with an average sale price of $7.7 million. That was just below the peak year of 1999, when the average price was $7.9 million. That surge produced a glut of listings above market prices that took several years to work through, brokers said.
 Stephen Kotler, an executive vice president at Douglas Elliman, said that he recently marketed an apartment at 700 Park Avenue at 59th Street, which, unlike the prime East Side apartments, had only two bedrooms and was in a postwar building. The asking price was nearly $3.5 million. ''The response was tremendous, we had 50 inquires in the first week,'' he said. A sale agreement is pending. 
 Sales of high-end condominiums were also reported strong last year at a number of new luxury buildings and were being aided by the strong market this winter as well, the brokers said. 
 The most expensive residential sale ever recorded in Manhattan was last year's purchase at $42.5 million, plus transfer taxes, of a 12,000-square-foot loft, plus terrace, in the Time Warner Center on Columbus Circle. Last year's peak co-op sale was a $20.5 million duplex on a high floor on Park Avenue in the 70's. 
 Asked about the state of the upscale condo market, Louise Sunshine, a marketing consultant to many of New York's newest condominium projects, including the Time Warner Center, said: ''We had four sales of more than $10 million in the last 10 days at Time Warner. The market is exceedingly strong.''
 In early 2002, there was a burst of real estate sales in the luxury market that quickly faltered along with the economy. Mr. Henckels said that sharply higher interest rates or a declining economy could weaken the market again, but he remained optimistic, especially in view of the limited inventory.
 ''Even if the economy stalls,'' his report advised buyers, ''it will be at higher prices. And if you overpay by a few percentage points, it will seem irrelevant in a few years.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Prices Up at the Top''Both average prices and numbers of sales have risen for homes priced at $4 million and more in Manhattan.Co-ops1997TOTAL SALES (millions): $238.5NUMBER OF SALES: 36AVERAGE SALE (millions): $6.6SALES OVER $10 MILLION: 5HIGHEST SALE (millions): $12.0WHERE: Fifth Avenue1998TOTAL SALES (millions): $210.7NUMBER OF SALES: 35AVERAGE SALE (millions): $6.0SALES OVER $10 MILLION: 2HIGHEST SALE (millions): $12.5WHERE: Fifth Avenue1999TOTAL SALES (millions): $332.9NUMBER OF SALES: 50AVERAGE SALE (millions): $6.7SALES OVER $10 MILLION: 7HIGHEST SALE (millions): $20.0WHERE: Fifth Avenue2000TOTAL SALES (millions): $699.3NUMBER OF SALES: 92AVERAGE SALE (millions): $7.6SALES OVER $10 MILLION: 18HIGHEST SALE (millions): $36.0WHERE: Park Avenue2001TOTAL SALES (millions): $465.6NUMBER OF SALES: 69AVERAGE SALE (millions): $6.8SALES OVER $10 MILLION: 10HIGHEST SALE (millions): $19.0WHERE: Fifth Avenue2002TOTAL SALES (millions): $474.8NUMBER OF SALES: 76AVERAGE SALE (millions): $6.2SALES OVER $10 MILLION: 7HIGHEST SALE (millions): $12.9WHERE: Central Park W.2003TOTAL SALES (millions): $653.1NUMBER OF SALES: 91AVERAGE SALE (millions): $7.2SALES OVER $10 MILLION: 15HIGHEST SALE (millions): $20.5WHERE: Park AvenueTown Houses1997TOTAL SALES (millions): $78.7NUMBER OF SALES: 14AVERAGE SALE (millions): $5.6SALES OVER $10 MILLION: 1HIGHEST SALE (millions): $11.0WHERE: East 70's1998TOTAL SALES (millions): $88.4NUMBER OF SALES: 14AVERAGE SALE (millions): $6.3SALES OVER $10 MILLION: 2HIGHEST SALE (millions): $12.7WHERE: East 80's1999TOTAL SALES (millions): $239.2NUMBER OF SALES: 30AVERAGE SALE (millions): $8.0SALES OVER $10 MILLION: 7HIGHEST SALE (millions): $21.0WHERE: East 60's2000TOTAL SALES (millions): $465.0NUMBER OF SALES: 65AVERAGE SALE (millions): $7.2SALES OVER $10 MILLION: 10HIGHEST SALE (millions): $16.5WHERE: Gramercy2001TOTAL SALES (millions): $195.0NUMBER OF SALES: 31AVERAGE SALE (millions): $6.3SALES OVER $10 MILLION: 4HIGHEST SALE (millions): $12.0WHERE: East 70's2002TOTAL SALES (millions): $282.8NUMBER OF SALES: 40AVERAGE SALE (millions): $7.1SALES OVER $10 MILLION: 6HIGHEST SALE (millions): $17.0WHERE: East 70's2003TOTAL SALES (millions): $355.9NUMBER OF SALES: 46AVERAGE SALE (millions): $7.7SALES OVER $10 MILLION: 8HIGHEST SALE (millions): $19.8WHERE: East 60's(Source by Kirk Henckels, Stribling & Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); BASKETBALL (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; Cooperatives; Housing; Murders and Attempted Murders; Basketball

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (59%) Stribling & Associates; New Jersey Nets

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%)

PERSON: Josh Barbanel; Robert Hanley; Jason Williams; Costas Christofi; Steven (Dr) Diamond; Edward M (Judge) Coleman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); IRAQ (76%) New York City; Alexandria Township (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



482 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Impeachment Panel in Rowland Case Starts Strategy Talks

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH; Alison Leigh Cowan contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
Legislators on a committee considering whether to pursue an impeachment of Gov. John G. Rowland discussed strategy for the first time on Thursday, naming subjects for investigation and making plans to start issuing subpoenas next week.
 The committee, which has met several times since it was formed last month, will begin by examining renovations undertaken by state employees at the governor's cottage, members said. It was after Mr. Rowland admitted lying about those renovations and about gifts from state employees and contractors that the impeachment inquiry began. 
 The committee will also look at several state contracts and business deals that have already drawn the attention of federal investigators. All of the subjects the lawmakers mentioned overlap with those identified in a wide-ranging subpoena issued to the governor's office on Monday by federal prosecutors. But the legislators do not expect any conflicts with the federal investigation, said John Wayne Fox, the Democratic co-chairman of the 10-member impeachment panel. The committee may expand the scope of its inquiry as it proceeds, Mr. Fox said.
 During its meeting, the committee approved the hiring of an investigator, Bart M. Schwartz, a former federal prosecutor in Manhattan. The legislators also hired a clerk, David Hemond, and adopted procedural rules based on those used in the impeachment of a Hartford probate judge, James H. Kinsella, in the 1980's. 
 The committee held most of its five-hour meeting on Thursday behind closed doors, prompting several newspapers to file complaints with the state's Freedom of Information Commission. After the meeting, Mr. Fox defended that decision to reporters, saying members were speaking with the committee's counsel, Steven F. Reich, and were therefore covered by attorney-client privilege. It is not clear that the committee is covered by the state's freedom-of-information laws, Mr. Fox said, though it will try to comply with their spirit.
 ''I would expect that in the future, a significant block of what we do will be done in an open public forum,'' including much of the discussion of standards for impeachment, a critical area, Mr. Fox said. 
 Other discussions will be closed to the public, Mr. Fox said, including talks about strategy and tactics for questioning witnesses.
 Federal investigators asked this week for records of all state transactions since 1992 with two law firms whose lawyers have represented Mr. Rowland or have had business dealings with him, records show.
 James K. Robertson, a lawyer for one of the firms, Carmody & Torrance, won initial confirmation as a Superior Court judge by a legislative committee Wednesday. He testified at a hearing last Friday that he had provided hundreds of hours of free legal services to the governor, who he said still owed Carmody & Torrance $100,000. The firm has received more than $5 million in state work since Mr. Rowland took office in 1995, though it received almost none before that time.
 Michael H. Cicchetti, a lawyer for the second firm, Cicchetti & Tansley, handled Mr. Rowland's divorce from his first wife and joined the governor in a real estate partnership in 1996 that earned Mr. Rowland $60,000 on an investment of $7,200. Two of Mr. Cicchetti's children have received state jobs during Mr. Rowland's tenure.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Many Inquiries Concerning John G. Rowland''Since evidence surfaced last fall that Gov. John G. Rowland of Connecticut had received work on his vacation cottage free of charge, he has been surrounded by an ever-increasing array of questions about his conduct in office. Here is a summary of the major ethical questions being considered by a panel convened to determine whether Governor Rowland should face impeachment.The cottagePurchased by Mr. Rowland and his wife, Patricia, in 1997 for $110,000, the lakeside getaway in Litchfield has become the focal point of the governor's ethics scandal. After first lying about it, he has admitted accepting thousands of dollars in improvements to the cottage from state aides and contractors, including members of the Tomasso Group, a company at the center of the federal investigation of possible bidrigging in the Rowland administration. Others who paid for cottage work included Lawrence E. Alibozek, who pleaded guilty to steering contracts in exchange for cash and gold.The land dealThe governor joined three friends in a real estate partnership called First Development Group in 1996. He earned $60,000 on a $7,200 investment in a residential subdivision near his hometown, Waterbury. One of his partners was Anthony R. Cocchiola, a paving contractor whose company worked at Mr. Rowland's cottage and has received more than $1 million in state contracts during the governors tenure. Another was Michael H. Cicchetti, Mr. Rowland's personal lawyer, whose son and daughter were recommended by the governor for state jobs.The vacationsMr. Rowland accepted free or discounted vacation stays at Vermont and Florida homes owned by the Tomasso family and Robert V. Matthews, a friend of the governor who received economic aid and leases valued at more than $12 million from the state. Mr. Rowland paid $9,000 in fines and restitution last year after an ethics investigation of the trips.The boatThe F.B.I. has requested information on a fishing boat that Mr. Rowland obtained in 2000 from his friend and one time driver, Vincent J. DeRosa. Mr. DeRosa, who was hired as state director of homeland security in 2001, gave the governor a $3,000 trade-in allowance on a boat that sold eight years earlier for $750.The stockMr. Rowland reported owning shares in a telecommunications company between 1997 and 1999 that was run by Anthony D. Autorino. Despite Mr. Autorinos history of run-ins with bank regulators and the loss of $25 million in state pension money on another of Mr. Autorino's ventures, Mr. Rowland gave Mr. Autorino a leading role in the plan to redevelop Hartford in 1997. Two years later, Mr. Rowland also supported moving a community college into a downtown building that Mr. Autorino was developing.The carMr. Rowland was given a restored 1967 Mustang for his birthday during a party at a Tomassoowned country club in 1999. The governor has insisted that the car, which was procured by Mr. DeRosa, was not really a gift, and that he paid $22,500 for it. But checks written by Mr. Rowland were dated months after the car was given to him, and he sold it not long after for $22,000. The F.B.I. requested documents pertaining to the Mustang from the state Department of Motor Vehicles.The leaseThe Connecticut attorney general concluded that the states $838,000- a-year lease of office space in Windsor was ''rigged'' to favor the buildings owners, a partnership that includes Mark Wertheim, a friend and political supporter of Mr. Rowland. Mr. Wertheims wife, Allicia, also paid for all or some of a trip Mrs. Rowland took to Florida. The F.B.I. is reportedly investigating whether Mr. Wertheim gave any furniture to the Rowlands as a gift.The condoWith help from Mr. Matthews, the governor sold a small condominium he owned in Washington in 1997 for $68,500, which was $30,000 to $50,000 more than what others in the same complex were selling for. The man who bought the condominium, a Connecticut antiques dealer, Wayne E. Pratt, was a business partner of Mr. Matthews. Mr. Pratt sold the condominium at a $30,000 loss two years later.(Mike McIntire and James Bronzan/The New York Times
 illustrations by Lalena Fisher)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPOENAS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LAWYERS (86%); TESTIMONY (78%); WITNESSES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (73%); JUDGES (70%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (69%); APPROVALS (66%); PROBATE (65%); ETHICS (65%); ATTORNEY CLIENT PRIVILEGE (63%) News and News Media; Governors (US); Impeachment; Ethics; Politics and Government 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%)

PERSON: Robert F Worth; John G (Gov) Rowland

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



483 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Sensing The Aroma Of a Primary That Matters

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
For too long, a juicy Democratic primary for the most excitable New Yorkers has been like a reservation at Per Se for foodies -- something to dream about, but not terribly likely to get. 
 But for the first time in four presidential political seasons, New York has a hot race on its turf. And that has political devotees like State Assemblyman John J. McEneny, a Democrat from Albany and former Howard Dean supporter, in a tiny tizzy. 
 Mr. McEneny talks to his daughter Rachel McEneny Spencer in Yonkers, who is pushing him to switch his support to John Edwards. He talks to his county executive, Michael G. Breslin, who backs the other John. ''He has his Kerry button on, but he lets all of us in his office,'' he said. 
 Mr. Breslin's brother, State Senator Neil D. Breslin, was a Dean delegate, so there is that. 
 ''I've gotten requests from both sides,'' Mr. McEneny said. ''I haven't made up my mind yet.'' 
 It is delicious stuff, he says. 
 Mr. McEneny listens to talk radio, drops into political conversations going on around the capital, and ponders Nafta votes. ''I think this is the most fun we've had in a few years,'' he said. 
 The primary in New York is on March 2, the same day Democrats go to the polls in California, Connecticut, Georgia, Maryland, Massachusetts, Ohio, Rhode Island and Vermont, and the day of the Minnesota caucus. Of the 1,151 delegates at stake that day, California has by far the most -- 370 -- but New York, with its 236 delegates, is second in importance to the men still standing. 
 Several factors have ginned up some excitement among the sort of New York Democrats who irritate their spouses by clicking around Internet news sites late into the evening instead of coming to bed. Senator Edwards is poised to be in the state for the next five days, bringing the national spotlight with him. He has said he sees New York as crucial to helping him stay in the race for another day.
 More exciting, the race, unlike in previous years, is not wrapped up by the time the show hits New York. Further, candidates who enjoyed support in New York but have dropped out have left their supporters scrambling to find a new man to get behind. And a dislike of President Bush tends to be more vitriolic among Democrats in New York. 
 ''New Yorkers are like everybody else, only more so,'' said former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. ''9/11 affected the entire country, only us more so. The state of the economy affected everyone, but us more so; the job numbers here are terrible. Desire to beat Bush, that desire plus plausibility to achieve that desire, makes us stronger than ever.''
 There is also the entertainment value.
 ''It is chatter,'' said Kevin R. McCabe, a longtime Democratic adviser who recently volunteered for Gen. Wesley K. Clark. ''It's like talking about 'Mystic River.' You know, 'That was an interesting twist, I thought it was going to be Dean!' It's like, 'I thought it was going to be Tim Robbins.' People have had a lot of fun with this campaign since it started, and I think they don't want it to end.''
 The thing is, they cannot stop thinking about it. They think about the primary as they rinse their salad greens. They think about it when they should be thinking about their PowerPoint presentation. They have too many outlets, and they know it. 
 ''The Web I do in the morning,'' said Martha Baker, a Queens resident and the vice president of development for the Center for the Advancement of Women. ''I do it again in the day, and after I get home in the evening. Late at night, I am watching the cable news channels. My No. 1 issue is that my daughter is carrying twins. But after that, this is No. 1 on the hit parade, as they used to say.''
 The Young Democrats of Richmond County are holding a shindig on Wednesday, ''Young Democrats After Dark,'' at a club in Midtown -- far from the Republican empire of Staten Island. While some New Yorkers are content to bet on baseball, these members wager on political outcomes. 
 ''I think for political junkies this is a very exciting time,'' said Michael P. Schnall, a legislative financial analyst for the New York City Council, and vice president of the Richmond County organization. ''Because you don't have one candidate who is just taking over. I am constantly online. I look at CNN.com. I watch cable. I spend a lot of time reading the papers, talking to friends and betting a beer over who will drop out this week. It is almost a sport for a lot of us.''
 William T. Cunningham, who usually works for Democrats but these days spends his workday as the communications director for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a Republican of short standing, put it this way: ''The New York Democrats are like the Knicks. Just when you thought the season was over, they come back to life and make it interesting.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael P. Schnall, a legislative financial analyst, is enjoying presidential politics. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Martha Baker, vice president of development for the Center for the Advancement of Women, was a fan of Bella Abzug, a Democratic Party force. She can't say the same about her feelings for President Bush. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); COUNTIES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; News and News Media; Primaries

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%) Jennifer Steinhauer

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



484 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1; NYC

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Measuring Joblessness, Suit by Suit

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

 BODY:
THE grammar is imperfect, but not the heart behind the gesture, which takes the form of a simple sign. It is a sheet of paper taped to the front window of a dry cleaner on Second Avenue, near East 73rd Street.
 ''If you are unemployed and need an outfit clean for a interview,'' it says, ''we will clean it for free.''
 The idea came to him soon after he opened his small shop in 2001, said Carlos Vasquez, the owner of First Professional Inc. Cleaners. His memory is that the sign went up early that year. But his wife and brother, who work with him, are pretty sure it happened after the Sept. 11 attacks. Well, Mr. Vasquez said with a shrug, what does it matter? The notice went in the window. That's the point. 
 ''It's something to give back to the community and the people who are unemployed,'' he said the other day.
 When people take him up on the offer, he asks to see the stub of an unemployment check. Trust, but verify, as Ronald Reagan said in a different context. But Mr. Vasquez is not fanatical about it. ''I ask for proof, but if they don't have it, I don't give them a hard time,'' he said. ''I take their word for it.''
 Now, no one pretends that his regular customers on that stretch of the Upper East Side, ZIP code 10021, are destitute. Save the violins and handkerchiefs for less-fortunate precincts.
 All the same, awash as it is with financial and advertising types, the neighborhood was disproportionately affected by the post-90's economic slump. Anecdotal evidence suggests to local elected officials, like State Senator Liz Krueger and Gifford Miller, speaker of the City Council, that a lot of people found themselves out of work. Sept. 11 was another blow. When the medical examiner's office tracked World Trade Center victims by ZIP code, it found that the largest number, 44, came from 10021.
 But perhaps times are getting better. And perhaps Mr. Vasquez's shop is an indicator. Call it the D.C.I., the dry cleaning index.
 He used to have five or six people a month coming in for free service, Mr. Vasquez said. That has slowed to two or three a month. ''Hopefully, that means things are picking up,'' Mr. Vasquez said.
 That just might be the case, said Jim Brown, a labor market analyst for the New York State Department of Labor. The city's unemployment rate in December, the last month with available figures, was 7.8 percent -- not wonderful, but more encouraging than the 8.3 percent of December 2002 and far better than the 9.2 percent of last February.
 While the D.C.I. may not be overwhelming evidence, Mr. Brown said that ''you like to have those small measures going in the same direction as your broad economic stats.''
 Doing better, though, hardly means doing well. At the end of 2003, state statistics show, 67,400 fewer people held jobs in New York City than a year earlier. On this score, too, clothes tell a tale.
 Last year, more than 3,000 New Yorkers looking for work turned to nonprofit groups for help with a basic first step to get through an employer's front door: the proper outfit.
 CLOTHES may not always make the man or woman. But they go far to make a first impression. And many poor people, especially those who have never worked in an office, do not have what to wear -- or in many instances, even know what to wear -- to a job interview.
 For that reason, job-training agencies refer women to organizations like Bottomless Closet and Dress for Success New York. Men are sent to Career Gear. The floors of these places look like mini-department stores, with racks upon racks of conservative suits, dresses, pants and jackets, all donated by people and companies. We're not talking shmattes. This stuff is in good condition. 
 Along with clothes, these groups offer instruction in job-interview etiquette, career counseling, financial planning and other skills. Yet more suits and dresses are provided to those who land jobs.
 ''We do the whole package,'' said Donna McGill, the executive director of Bottomless Closet. Career Gear follows a similar principle. ''It becomes a lot more than clothing,'' said Gary Field, the founder. ''It's the whole presentation, because it's very competitive out there.''
 Still, success often begins with the right wardrobe, as Mr. Vasquez knows.
 Now and then, he said, passers-by who live in other parts of town ask him whether they, too, can have their clothes cleaned free. ''I tell them, 'Sure, you don't have to be from Manhattan,''' he said. ''If you're unemployed, you're unemployed.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (85%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TERRORISM (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); EVIDENCE (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (67%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (63%); CITIES (62%) Labor; Unemployment; Apparel; Dry Cleaning; Labor

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (70%) Clyde Haberman; Carlos Vasquez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004



485 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 1; COLLEGE BASKETBALL

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Blend at Bowdoin Is the Complete Player

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

DATELINE: BRUNSWICK, Me., Feb. 17 

 BODY:
Coach Stefanie Pemper detests timeouts and rarely calls them. Forward Justine Pouravelis is an aspiring filmmaker, an opera buff and an honors student. Between games in the New England Small College Athletic Conference tournament, which begins Saturday, Alison Smith will perform in a campus production of ''The Vagina Monologues.''
 But right now, the Bowdoin College Polar Bears have basketball on their minds. Sort of. They are divided into three teams -- self-named the Mighty T's, the Ferocious Ferraris and the Fire -- for a regimen that resembles an Olympics of shooting, passing and defensive drills. Some faces are painted, ribbons dangle from ponytails, and cheers and chants echo inside Morrell Gymnasium. Winning the team spirit component is important. 
 Only after the exuberance gives way to the swoosh of nylon as one shot after another falls through the nets are the Bowdoin women recognizable as talented basketball players who have put up a 23-0 record and are ranked No. 1 in the N.C.A.A. Division III. They have done it without athletic scholarships and while balancing extracurricular activities and demanding classwork at Bowdoin, a liberal arts college of more than 1,600 students.
 They have done it well. The team's cumulative grade point average of 3.35 is higher than the 3.27 average of the student body. They have done it that way because they wanted to.
 ''I had decided not to play basketball in college,'' said Pouravelis, a sophomore forward, who led her high school team to the Maine Class A championship, ''because I didn't want it to get distorted into something I didn't love anymore. But right here is about as pure as it gets.''
 It was only after she was accepted to Bowdoin and met with Pemper that Pouravelis decided she could juggle her study of economics with her dream of being a cinematographer without missing the operas that come to Portland. She has averaged 7 points and 6 rebounds a game, but had as much fun creating a farewell film for the seniors. Pouravelis melded her passions and cut a highlight tape of them that she scored to the music of ''Carmina Burana'' by the German composer Carl Orff.
 It takes an eclectic and sometimes eccentric coach to mold bright, diverse personalities into a program with hardly any budget and a mission that demands that the players mirror the student body and participate in the college community. 
 Bowdoin found one in Pemper, a former Big Sky all-conference guard at Idaho State, where she was also an academic all-conference player. A former assistant at Harvard, she has compiled a 127-30 record over six seasons, won three conference titles and led the Polar Bears to three consecutive N.C.A.A. Division III tournaments, twice reaching the quarterfinals.
But the banners hanging in the gymnasium are not what impress Bowdoin College's president, Barry Mills, the most about Pemper.
 ''She instills passion, confidence, poise and values in her players,'' Mills said. ''She is all about teaching responsibility and making your own decisions.''
 Pemper, 33, believes coaching is conducted during practices. Hers are crisply organized and competitive; shortly into the regimen, her players were bent over and breathing hard. She has also brought a Division I sensibility to the program, preparing typed and detailed notes on opponents. When the Polar Bears travel outside New England, they do so first-class. 
 Over the New Year's holiday break, Pemper turned a trip to play Franklin & Marshall in Pennsylvania into a four-day field trip to New York, where the team went to a Broadway show and dined at a French restaurant. Pemper also designed a scavenger hunt for her players, which included getting their pictures taken in front of the Brooklyn Bridge, visiting a museum and eating a meal with the parents of the freshman Julia Loonin.
 Besides avoiding timeouts, Pemper makes her players meet first at halftime to decide what adjustments they need to make for the second half. ''If I'm doing this right, they should be able to coach themselves,'' Pemper said.
 On the floor, the Polar Bears have achieved the program's first undefeated season. They lead Division III in scoring defense, allowing only 44.7 points a game, and win by an average of 23.5 points, which is the nation's fifth-best margin. They beat the nation's No. 2 team and their in-state rival, Southern Maine, on the road, and have won two games in overtime -- the last at Williams, where they had to erase a 20-point deficit. 
 But Pemper is more gratified by the balance her players show away from basketball. The senior Kristina Fugate missed part of last season to study abroad in South Africa and put her studies in government and biology to work over the summer examining invasive plants for the state of Maine. Erika Nickerson is a classics major and, like Pouravelis, is a Sarah and James Bowdoin scholar. 
 So when Smith approached her before the season about performing in ''The Vagina Monologues,'' Pemper got out her calendar to help her make it work. Smith wanted to deepen her commitment to the V-Day movement, which raises awareness and money to combat violence against women. Pemper has moved next week's practices to the afternoons so that Smith, her starting guard, will be able to rehearse at night. The conference tournament games are on Saturday and Sunday afternoon and do not conflict with the play's evening performances.
 ''I'm not concerned about her missing meals or getting enough rest,'' said Pemper, who will attend the play with her team. ''I trust that Alison, as a 20-year-old woman, can make a decision that is important to her and one that she can be proud of.'' 
 Smith, a junior psychology major, says her seven-minute monologue is burned in her brain, as is the vision of the Polar Bears running through the conference and N.C.A.A. tournaments. 
 ''I am branching out with the acting,'' said Smith, who was named the Gatorade player of the year in Maine as a senior at Bangor High School. ''But the V-Day movement and basketball are both very important to me. We play serious basketball around here, but we're also serious about life. It's what Bowdoin is about. It's what Stefanie is about.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bowdoin College Coach Stefanie Pemper, right, does not like to call timeouts, and she lets her players meet during halftime. (Photo by Herb Swanson for The New York Times)(pg. D4)
 Justine Pouravelis, left, an aspiring filmmaker, talking with her Bowdoin College teammates during a recent practice, which included painted faces, ribbons dangling from ponytails, and cheers and chants. (Photo by Herb Swanson for The New York Times)(pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FILM (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); GRADES & GRADING (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); MUSIC (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (73%); RANKINGS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (78%) NORTHEAST USA (88%); MAINE, USA (78%); IDAHO, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



486 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Future of Coke President Uncertain as Search Starts
A day after Douglas N. Daft, the chairman and chief executive of Coca-Cola, announced he would retire at the end of the year, analysts questioned the timing of the resignation and the effect it could have on the candidacy of Steven J. Heyer, Coke's president, who was considered the heir apparent to Mr. Daft.
 Coke's board said that it would move swiftly to name a successor, and it also said that it would hire a search firm to evaluate outside candidates, fueling speculation that Mr. Heyer may not get the job. [Page B2.]

Senate to Curb S.U.V. Deduction
The Senate moved to curb a tax incentive that encourages small businesses to purchase the largest and most fuel-inefficient sport utility vehicles. The measure must still gain approval from the House. [B2.]

No Deal for Vodafone, Chief Says
Arun Sarin, the chief executive of Vodafone who has been meeting with investors and analysts in an effort to calm concerns about the company's strategy in the United States wireless market and elsewhere, said that the company is not interested in buying the Sprint Corporation-PCS Group or Nextel despite losing the bidding for AT&T Wireless. It is also not interested in buying the remainder of SFR, the French mobile phone company. [B3.]

Turmoil at Airlines Continues
A federal bankruptcy court judge in Chicago agreed to investigate whether United Airlines misled its employees when it pledged to protect health care benefits for retirees, and then moved to cut them. And, the pilots union at US Airways agreed to participate in drafting a restructuring plan that could include a third round of concessions. [B2.]

The chief privacy officer of the Department of Homeland Security said in a report that transportation security officials violated the spirit of the 1974 privacy act when they helped a Pentagon contractor obtain computerized passenger data from JetBlue Airways. [B2.]

Resemblance in Enron Name Only
Chicago's most popular weatherman, Tom Skilling, is described as sweet, jovial, warm and lovable. But they are not descriptions often used for his brother, Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron who was indicted Thursday on charges of securities fraud, insider trading and conspiracy. [A12.]

F.D.A. Commissioner Is Nominated
Dr. Mark B. McClellan, the food and drug commissioner, was nominated by President Bush to run Medicare and Medicaid. [A30.]

Nasdaq Has Fifth Down Week
The Nasdaq composite index, which fell 8.03 points, to 2,037.93, was down for the fifth consecutive week. It has suffered the brunt of the market's uneven trading in recent weeks, but is up 1.7 percent so far this year. The Dow Jones industrial average declined 45.70 points, to 10,619.03, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 2.95 points, to 1,144.11. [B4.]

The Consumer Price Index rose 0.5 percent in January. Excluding energy and food prices, the core rate of inflation increased by a mild 0.2 percent last month. [B2.]

States Explore Drugs From Canada
Minnesota and Wisconsin will ask other states to join them in screening Canadian drugstores in a move to obtain cheaper drugs from Canada and neutralize warnings from the pharmaceutical industry and the Food and Drug Administration that imported prescription drugs could be unsafe. [B3.]

Film Industry Wins DVD Suit
A federal court ruled that a St. Louis software company, 321 Studios, must stop making and distributing software that allows users to copy DVD's, handing Hollywood's major movie studios a victory in their battle against copyright piracy. [B4.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,619.03 down 45.70Nasdaq composite -- 2,037.93 down 8.0310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.09% up 0.06The euro -- $1.2506 down 0.0188The dollar -- 109.21 yen up 1.99Graph tracks daily closes of the Nasdaq Composite through January and February.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AIRLINES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (69%); TAX LAW (69%); MEDICARE (69%); INDICTMENTS (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); INSIDER TRADING (67%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (66%); MEDICAID (66%); CONSPIRACY (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (64%); JUDGES (64%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (62%); TAX INCENTIVES (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (93%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (84%); AT&T INC (83%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (82%); COCA-COLA CO (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (55%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

TICKER: S (NYSE) (84%); T (NYSE) (83%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (82%); KO (NYSE) (58%); LCC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (82%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (82%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ARUN SARIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (86%) ILLINOIS, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



487 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Trade Deficit Hits Seattle
The Seattle area and Washington State, which earn more per capita from trade than any other area, are caught up in the debate over trade, and whether trade and unemployment are linked. PAGE C1

Haitians Welcome Rebels
Antigovernment forces in Haiti were hailed as liberators by residents as they took another town in the central plateau region. PAGE A3

Iraq Data Wasn't Shared
The C.I.A. has acknowledged that it did not give the U.N. prewar information on some Iraqi sites suspected of housing illicit arms. PAGE A6

Justices to Rule on Detention
The Supreme Court agreed to consider if President Bush had the authority to detain indefinitely an American citizen seized on American soil by declaring him an enemy combatant. PAGE A9

A Doomsday Whimper
A dark energy is steadily pushing the universe apart, suggesting the universe may end with a slide into senescence rather than a violent apocalypse, new data from the Hubble Telescope suggests. PAGE A11

No Block of Gay Marriage
A judge refused to block San Francisco from issuing same-sex marriage licenses, saying it caused no immediate harm. PAGE A8


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Annie Marie Musselman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); JUDGES (68%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (67%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (67%); MARRIAGE (65%); GAYS & LESBIANS (65%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (65%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (65%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%) HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



488 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: A Job for Rewrite: Stalin's War

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN SCHWARZ. 
Benjamin Schwarz is the literary editor and the national editor of The Atlantic Monthly.

 BODY:
A plucky Britain refusing to bow to the Luftwaffe's blitz, Patton and Rommel dueling in the North African desert, the D-Day invasion and the Battle of the Bulge -- these tend to dominate American's conception of the Allied defeat of Nazi Germany. 
 But as important as the episodes were, military historians have always known that the main scene of the Nazis' downfall was the Eastern Front, which claimed 80 percent of all German military casualties in the war. 
 The four-year conflict between the Wehrmacht and the Red Army remains the largest and possibly the most ferocious ever fought. The armies struggled over vast territory. The front extended 1,900 miles (greater than the distance from the northern border of Maine to the southern tip of Florida), and German troops advanced over 1,000 miles into Soviet territory (equivalent to the distance from the East Coast to Topeka, Kan.). And they clashed in a seemingly unrelenting series of military operations of unparalleled scale; the battle of Kursk alone, for instance, involved 3.5 million men. 
 In short, the war fought on the Eastern Front is arguably the single most important chapter in modern military history -- but it is a chapter that in many essential ways is only now being written. From evidence released from Soviet archives since the mid-1980's, scholars have learned, for example, that Soviet deaths numbered nearly 50 million, two and half times the original estimate; that the Red Army raped two million German women during their occupation to wreak revenge; and that an astonishing 40 percent of Soviet wartime battles were for deacdes lost to history. 
 In the last few years, academics have lamented that access to Russian archives has tightened considerably. Surprisingly, though, specialists in the field say that what may turn out to be a bigger problem is the dearth of Russian military historians in the West who can take advantage of the documentary material already available, coupled with the lack of money in the former Soviet Union to support those academics prepared to dive into the papers. So far, it's a ''missed historiographical opportunity,'' said Col. David M. Glantz, now retired, the former director of the United States Army's Foreign Military Studies Office, who has written or edited more than 60 books on the history of the Soviet military in the Second World War. The extraordinarily prolific Colonel Glantz said he would need ''three lifetimes'' to mine the documents that have already been released. 
 Military historians like Williamson Murray, professor emeritus at Ohio State University and a defense consultant in Washington, hold that the Soviets probably documented their war more fully than any other of the combatant states. Yet the war on the Eastern Front is still obscure, largely because of the cold war. During that period, the U.S.S.R.'s immense archives concerning the conflict were essentially closed to Western scholars. At the same time, the decisive impact of America's erstwhile ally was often deliberately underplayed in the West for political reasons.
 The Soviets also buried the history of the Eastern Front. Soviet military historians turned out accurate and detailed work, but since they could analyze only what Soviet officials permitted them to write about, they skirted, or, more significantly, ignored those facts and events the government considered embarrassing. Soviet propaganda, meanwhile, lionized the heroes of the ''Great Patriotic War.'' 
 For the most part, then, scholars were forced to rely heavily on German sources, which presented an extremely distorted view of events. Only the Scottish historian John Erickson, whose two-volume history of the war in the East -- ''The Road to Stalingrad'' (1975) and ''The Road to Berlin'' (1983) -- remains the outstanding comprehensive study in any language, managed to get beyond such one-sided accounts. He did it by virtue of his close relationships with high-level Soviet officials and current and former military officers in order to gain access to closed records. But probably his greatest cache of Soviet material actually came from combing German records for captured Soviet documents. 
 Since the fall of the Soviet Union, though, the flood of published Soviet military documents and the opening up of the Soviet archives have been transforming historians' understanding of this pivotal theater of the Second World War. Indisputably, the chief scholar in this endeavor is the 62-year-old Colonel Glantz, who spent most of his years in the Army thinking of ways to defeat the Red Army. 
 Drawing on the vast and varied newly available Soviet document collections and archives, his dozens of books are what military historians call operational histories, which minutely and meticulously examine what took place on the battlefields. They aren't concerned with the Eastern Front's political, social, diplomatic or economic dimensions (Colonel Glantz barely touches on the Wehrmacht's role in the Final Solution, for example), or even with all its military ones, and to the layman they can be very heavy going, with their recitations of faceless units moving in unfamiliar places. 
 But thanks largely to his and Mr. Erickson's work, Westerners have radically revised their appreciation of the Red Army's wartime skill and performance. 
 According to the conventional view, based largely on the often-self-serving accounts of German generals, the Wehrmacht was the most operationally advanced military in the war, and Soviet tactics and performance were leaden and unimaginative in comparison; the Red Army ultimately prevailed not because it was skillful, but because it was so large.
 By incorporating Colonel Glantz's findings, however, Mr. Murray of Ohio State and his co-author, Allan R. Millett, conclude in ''A War to Be Won'' (Harvard, 2000), their general history of the Second World War, that the Soviets' brilliant use of encirclement and what they called ''deep battle'' -- extremely rapid, far-reaching advances behind the enemy's front lines -- constituted the most innovative and devastating display of ''operational art'' in World War II. Soviet operations from the summer of 1944 to the winter of 1945, they conclude, were far superior to those of the German Army at its best. 
 Speaking from his house in Carlisle, Pa., near the United States Army War College, Colonel Glantz marveled that close to one-half of wartime Soviet operations -- including major battles involving hundreds of thousands of Red Army soldiers -- are simply ''missing from history,'' either neglected or covered up. 
 For example, in November and December of 1942 the celebrated Soviet Field Marshal G. K. Zhukov orchestrated a gigantic offensive (''Operation Mars'') involving seven Soviet armies with 83 divisions, 817,000 men and 2,352 tanks. The failed operation cost the Red Army nearly 350,000 dead, missing and wounded men, and 1,700 tanks, yet it was methodically concealed in Soviet historiography, in large part to preserve Zhukov's reputation.
 Not all of Colonel Glantz's findings would have proved so embarrassing to the Soviets. In one of the most contentious debates that emerged from the war, Western historians and their governments throughout the cold war accused Stalin of deliberately holding back the Red Army from aiding the Polish uprising in Warsaw in 1944, thus tacitly permitting German forces to destroy the beleaguered Polish Home Army. But Colonel Glantz concludes, after scrutinizing the documents, that the Red Army initially made every reasonable effort to come to the Poles' assistance and later chose not to -- Stalin's political considerations aside -- because such action would have required a major reorientation of military efforts and a consequent slackening of the main offensive against German forces. 
 Using other newly available Soviet military documents, the British historian Antony Beevor focused on the final months of the conflict in his harrowing study, ''The Fall of Berlin'' (Viking, 2002), during which Russian soldiers victimized two million German women, 50 years before rape was recognized as a war crime. 
 And where Colonel Glantz shies away from larger historical or cultural analysis, the historian Christopher R. Browning firmly ties what the Nazis called their ''war of destruction'' against the Soviet Union to the Holocaust. In Mr. Browning's view, which he details in his forthcoming book, ''The Origins of the Final Solution'' (University of Nebraska), Germany's mass murders of Jews and non-Jews alike on the Eastern Front crystallized Nazi policy regarding the eradication of European Jewry.
 A popular Soviet postwar slogan was, ''No one is forgotten, nothing is forgotten.'' It is only now, though, as more information is being mined about this immense, chaotic war, that historians are realizing all there is to be remembered.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 8, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Arts & Ideas on Feb. 21 about the emergence of information from Soviet archives about the Eastern Front in World War II misstated the estimate of Soviet deaths in the war. Scholars say that it is 27 million soldiers and civilians, not 50 million. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bogged down in Russia: remnants of the defeated German Army leaving Stalingrad after the 1942-3 battle, a turning point in World War II. (pg. B9)
 Fifty years after the Allied victory, workers in Moscow unload a statue of the war hero Field Marshall Zhukov. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (94%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); HISTORY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); COLD WAR (77%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) World War II (1939-45); Archives and Records; World War II (1939-45)

PERSON: Benjamin Schwarz

GEOGRAPHIC: TOPEKA, KS, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) KANSAS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



489 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: The Public Faces Life Without Its Dynamo

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
Every year or so the word would start to circulate. Something exciting, something new, possibly even something dangerous was happening downtown on Lafayette Street. Such gossip is lifeblood in the back-fence world of the New York theater, where success is measured as much in buzz as in awards and box-office receipts.
 The genesis of this rumor-making activity was the Joseph Papp Public Theater, home to the New York Shakespeare Festival. But it was rare that anyone said, ''Do you know about what's happening at the Public Theater?'' No, more likely, the emphasis would be tellingly different, as in, ''Have you heard what George is up to?''
 George was, and is, George C. Wolfe, the brilliant stage director -- arguably the best now working in the American theater -- who for nearly a decade was also the producer of the New York Shakespeare Festival, a post that last week he announced he was leaving. 
 It's safe to say that powerful leaders in the arts are going to be identified with the institutions they head, becoming human logos of sorts. Joseph Papp -- the colossus of self-promotion who founded the New York Shakespeare Festival in 1954 and created the Public Theater in 1967 -- could certainly say, ''The Public, c'est moi.''
 Yet it always seemed easy to separate what Mr. Wolfe was involved in directly from whatever else was going on at the Public. Since whatever else happened to be the vast majority of the shows produced there, this was not necessarily a good thing. A multi-Tony Award winner who directed the epochal Broadway production of Tony Kushner's ''Angels in America,'' Mr. Wolfe the director shone brightly during his time at the Public. The Public Theater itself usually seemed to hang back in the shadows, like the timid offspring of a glamorous star.
 Consider the roster of news-generating productions at the Public over the last 10 years, and they almost invariably seem to be all about George. The best Shakespearean production to come out of there in the last 10 years? That would be Mr. Wolfe's bold reconception of ''The Tempest'' as a parable of colonialism. The best musical? No question: ''Bring In da Noise, Bring In da Funk,'' the pulse-racing presentation of African-American history through tap dancing, expertly tailored by Mr. Wolfe in collaboration with Savion Glover.
 Best staging of a new drama? Once again, the award goes to Mr. Wolfe, for his sharp-witted, resourceful direction of Suzan-Lori Parks's ''Topdog/Underdog.'' Best valentine to old-style Broadway razzmatazz? Mr. Wolfe's enchanting showcase for that salty trouper Elaine Stritch in her one-woman show. All these productions, by the way, wound up transferring successfully to Broadway, which brings us to the next category.
 The most flamboyant failures to come out of the Age of Wolfe? Yes, Mr. Wolfe, in his role as director with a vision, was the shaping force behind those, too: the revival of the vintage wartime frolic ''On the Town'' and the dour Jazz Age fable ''The Wild Party,'' two musicals that bellyflopped on Broadway and that together lost the Public $11 million.
 This led to a period of economic turmoil, and an executive director was brought in to oversee the Public's finanical side. The consequent belt tightening included reducing to one from two the number of summer productions of Shakespeare in Central Park, a holy tradition created by Papp. It was rare that all of the Public Theater's five stages were active at the same time. Predictions abounded that Mr. Wolfe's departure was imminent.
 But Mr. Wolfe stayed on, although other Public personnel did not. And now he is leaving, appropriately, amid a Georgian symphony of buzz, as his production of ''Caroline, or Change,'' a socially conscious musical by Mr. Kushner and Jeanine Tesori, prepares to open on Broadway. And I'm sure I'm not alone in looking forward to his valedictory production this summer of ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'' in Central Park.
 Yet looking back, my mind goes hazy when I try to think of memorable productions at the Public in which Mr. Wolfe did not have an active hand. Certainly, as a whole, the non-Wolfean shows were an improvement on the often arcane and academic fare staged during the brief, stormy reign of JoAnne Akalaitis, who was picked by Papp to succeed him shortly before his death, but who lasted as artistic director for a mere 20 months.
 There's no denying that Mr. Wolfe expanded on Papp's vision of the Public as an artistic melting pot of ethnically varied voices. But only that of Ms. Parks, who won a Pulitzer Prize for ''Topdog/Underdog,'' has had the sort of urgency and clarity that insists it be heard. (Plays by Nilo Cruz, not including his Pulitzer-winning ''Anna in the Tropics,'' were also staged at the Public but caused nary a ripple.)
 It seems telling that the new works that generated the most interest -- like the performance artist Danny Hoch's ''Some People'' and Richard Greenberg's ''Take Me Out'' -- were first seen at other theaters. Admittedly, Mike Nichols's star-packed production of Chekhov's ''Seagull'' in Central Park became that summer's glamour ticket. But no previously unknown director made his name at the Public during Mr. Wolfe's time there.
 There were occasional flashes of brightness from relatively unknown artists, as in Diana Son's play ''Stop Kiss,'' Karin Coonrod's vigorously unorthodox staging of Shakespeare's ''Henry VI'' plays and, most important, the theatrical journalism of Anna Deveare Smith. But by and large the hottest original young talents on the New York stage were elsewhere, at the Drama Dept., for instance, or the New Group, the Labyrinth Theater Company, the Vineyard Theater and Performance Space 122, among others. (It's encouraging that the Labyrinth has taken up residence at the Public.)
 Nor did Shakespeare flourish at the New York Shakespeare Festival, although under Mr. Wolfe it followed through on Papp's ambition to perform every play in the canon. Too often these productions took the already well-worn road of jazzing up Shakespeare with mismatched postmodernist flourishes. (Remember the Vietnam-era ''Troilus and Cressida'' in the park?)
 Following a practice that began under Papp, reflecting a celebrity-besotted society, Mr. Wolfe brought in many stars with high Q ratings to try their hands at blank verse. A few acquitted themselves splendidly, like Liev Schreiber in ''Hamlet'' and ''Othello.'' Others -- including Ron Leibman (as Shylock), Julia Stiles (as Viola in ''Twelfth Night''), F. Murray Abraham (as Lear) -- turned in interpretations that became benchmarks in the flattening and mangling of Shakespeare by the talented.
 It may be that we ask too much of the Public. Papp had enormous ambitions for the institution he founded, envisioning it as a pulsing, endlessly productive theater mecca along the lines of the National in London. Of course, no American theater has the artistic or financial resources of the National. Yet there were moments, in the 1970's in particular, when the Public exuded an optimistic energy that I associate with the National in its fertile periods.
 Thanks in part to Joe's Pub, the delightfully varied cabaret established in 1998, there are still nights when the Public feels like the sort of vibrating, creative hive that the culturally curious in New York live for. And no doubt when and if Mr. Wolfe returns to the Public as a visiting director, the buzz from that hive will increase once again. In the meantime, his successor will need to fill in crucial blanks that were usually camouflaged only by the charismatic directorial talents of Mr. Wolfe himself.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Patrick Stewart and Carrie Preston in George Wolfe's ''Tempest.'' (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. B16)
 George C. Wolfe, who is leaving the Public Theater. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); DANCE (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); TICKET SALES (57%); HISTORY (50%) Theater

ORGANIZATION: Papp, Joseph, Public Theater/new York Shakespeare Festival

PERSON: George C Wolfe; Ben Brantley

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



490 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: Sister Doris Smith -- College President, 73

 BODY:
Sister Doris Smith, who was president of the College of Mount St. Vincent in the Bronx from 1973 to 1992, died on Thursday. 
She was 73.
 The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Sister Eileen McGrory, a member of her religious order, the Congregation of the Sisters of Charity of St. Vincent de Paul.
 While Sister Doris was president of the college, it grew significantly in student population and, in 1988, a master's degree program was added. Sister Doris was credited with opening the college to the surrounding community in Riverdale. N.Y. She also taught economics. 
 She was the secretary for the Sisters of Charity from 1996 to 2003.
 A native of Cleveland, Sister Doris graduated from the College of Mount St. Vincent. She received a master's degree in business education from New York University.
 She is survived by three nieces and a nephew. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 25, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an obituary on Saturday about Sister Doris Smith, former president of the College of Mount St. Vincent in the Bronx, misstated the date of her death. It was Jan. 19, not Feb. 19. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (72%); CANCER (72%); RELIGION (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



491 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1; BASEBALL

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Schilling Wears His Sarcasm On His Shirt

BYLINE: By JACK CURRY

DATELINE: FORT MYERS, Fla., Feb. 20 

 BODY:
Curt Schilling's midnight blue T-shirt with yellow lettering was hanging in front of his locker, as visible as a neon sign to anyone who entered the clubhouse at the Boston Red Sox' minor league facility. The message on the shirt was pointed: ''You have the right to remain silent. Anything you say will be misquoted, and then used against you.''
 Schilling, who was acquired in November and has been more outspoken than any Red Sox player during the off-season, smiled and said a friend had given him the shirt. 
 Still, by leaving the shirt in such a conspicuous spot, Schilling was clearly sending some type of message.
 Once Schilling finished his workout and put on a Walter Payton throwback jersey, he spoke giddily about the opportunity to return to the Red Sox organization, to be a central part of its quest for a World Series and, of course, to be a part of its ferocious rivalry with the Yankees.
 ''I don't know that this rivalry has ever been at the intensity level that it's at now, and we haven't played a game yet,'' Schilling said. ''We haven't even had a workout yet. That's exciting for me.''
 The Yankees were interested in acquiring Schilling, 37, from the Arizona Diamondbacks, but they retreated because of Arizona's lofty trade demands. The Red Sox desperately wanted Alex Rodriguez and spent weeks trying to obtain him from the Texas Rangers, but in the end Boston bailed out on its attempt because it did not want to pay about $15 million.
 One American League official said that Rodriguez called Schilling while the Red Sox were negotiating with the Rangers. But now Rodriguez is with the Yankees, a team Schilling and the Red Sox will face 19 times this season. Schilling responded to the first question he heard about Rodriguez by saying, ''A-Rod got traded?''
 After admitting that he had thought about having Rodriguez as a teammate, Schilling said he always figured the Red Sox would end up in a good situation: they would retain Nomar Garciaparra and Manny Ramirez, or they would replace them with Rodriguez and Magglio Ordonez. While the swiftness of the Yankees' move shocked Schilling, and he said he was disappointed that Rodriguez would now be playing in the Bronx, he did not dwell on it.
 ''It's one of those things you wish hadn't happened,'' he said. ''I firmly believe that if one guy is going to stop us from winning it all, then this team is not put together right, and I don't believe that.''
 When the Red Sox acquired Schilling, it was viewed as a powerful punch at the Yankees because he and Pedro Martinez will make a formidable 1-2 tandem. But by closing out a hectic off-season with the addition of Rodriguez, the Yankees have forced the Red Sox to spend the rest of the year discussing the player they did not acquire.
 ''People are fickle enough that the focus is going to change on a daily basis anyway,'' Schilling said.
 John Henry, the Red Sox owner, was so agitated about the Yankees' getting Rodriguez that he said on Wednesday that baseball's economic system was ''totally out of whack.'' On Friday, Schilling praised George Steinbrenner and came close to criticizing his own owner.
 ''First of all, it's hard being on one of the haves,'' Schilling said. ''We're sitting on about a $130 million payroll here so, you know, to moan about somebody spending a lot for their team is kind of . . . I don't know if it's the right or the wrong thing to do.''
 Schilling said he did not blame Steinbrenner for using the resources he has, but added that there was a problem when one team has 10 times as much capital as some of its competitors. Schilling said he thought that revenue sharing would help solve the imbalance, then added, ''Maybe they should put two more teams in New York.''
 Manager Terry Francona, in his first season with the Red Sox, said he did not expect Boston's attempts to unload Garciaparra and Ramirez to have an impact on how they will play for the Red Sox. Schilling has been working out with Garciaparra in Arizona for the last six weeks and said he felt that Garciaparra -- the shortstop Boston did not want but still has -- would produce.
 ''He's a grown man,'' Schilling said. ''I think he understands. I'm sure he wasn't happy with how some of it played out. But Nomar is going to show up, he's going to be in fantastic shape, he's going to hit .340 and people are going to stop dwelling on January and start worrying about what really matters, which is now.''
 Schilling apparently likes sending messages through his T-shirts because he wore a black one with white lettering Friday, during his first workout as a Boston player since he was a minor leaguer in the Red Sox system. The message on that T-shirt could have been an exchange between Steinbrenner and Henry, or any conversation between a Yankee fan and a Red Sox fan.
 ''Your lips keep moving . . . but all I hear is blah, blah, blah.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Boston's Curt Schilling can find a way to be outspoken, even when he's not talking. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); ATHLETES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (94%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (54%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (59%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) ARIZONA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (68%); TEXAS, USA (68%); NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



492 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-7

Report Reveals New Links In Libya's Nuclear Program
A report by Malaysian investigators contained revelations that partially enriched uranium was shipped directly to Libya from Pakistan in 2001, providing the fuel stock in addition to the designs and technology to make a nuclear bomb. There were also implications that citizens of some European countries were closely involved in Libya's clandestine nuclear program. A1

Intelligence on Iraqi Terrorists
The most active terrorist network inside Iraq appears to be operating mostly apart from Al Qaeda, and there are signs that Qaeda members outside Iraq recently refused a request from the group, Ansar al-Islam, for help in attacking Shiite Muslims in Iraq. A1

The Bush administration is likely to ask for more help from a special United Nations envoy to solidify a consensus on how Iraq will be run after the transfer of authority on June 30. A6

The C.I.A. acknowledged that it did not provide the United Nations with information about some sites in Iraq singled out by American intelligence before the war as highly suspected of housing illicit weapons. A6

Kurdish leaders have accused Americans of trying to block their long-stifled hopes for autonomy in the new Iraqi state, straining their longstanding alliance. A7

Political Fate of Hong Kong
Chinese leaders in Beijing, concerned that Hong Kong is becoming difficult to control, are making clear that they will decide who is sufficiently patriotic to govern Hong Kong and how soon democracy can be introduced there. A4

Rebels Welcomed in Haiti
Haitian rebel soldiers, hailed as liberators by thousands of residents, entered the town of Hinche, ending a week in which they have wrested control of the central plateau from the embattled government of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. A3

NATIONAL A8-12, 16

Judge Appointed in Recess; Medicare Nominee Chosen
President Bush used a weeklong Congressional recess to install William H. Pryor Jr., the Alabama attorney general, in a federal appeals court seat from which he had been blocked by Democrats. A1

President Bush announced that he would nominate Dr. Mark B. McClellan, the food and drug commissioner, to run Medicare and Medicaid. A16

President Bush raised $12.8 million in January, while Democrats were campaigning in Iowa and New Hampshire, reports show. He closed out the month with more than $104 million in the bank. A11

Immigration Plan Draws Critics
Conservative Republicans vying for votes in Congressional races across the country are mounting opposition to the comprehensive overhaul of immigration law that President Bush promised a month ago. A1

Court to Hear Combatant Case
The Supreme Court agreed to consider whether President Bush had the authority to detain indefinitely an American citizen who was seized on American soil by declaring him an enemy combatant. A9

Gay Marriage Opponents Halted
Opponents of gay marriage suffered another setback in San Francisco when a judge refused to block the issuance of same-sex marriage licenses, saying opponents had not shown that the weddings were causing immediate harm. A8

Edwards's 2nd New York Tour
Senator John Edwards returned to New York and pressed the themes of job loss and economic despair while pushing to schedule a fresh series of debates before the Super Tuesday primaries on March 2. A10

Atlanta Police Faulted
An audit of the Atlanta Police Department has concluded that it has consistently underreported crimes for years. A11

Religion Journal A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Agency Heads Lose Sirens After Reports of Overuse
Mayor Bloomberg moved to yank the emergency lights and sirens out of the cars of 255 city officials, including the heads of some of the largest city agencies. Their removal came a week after a deputy mayor was caught in a televised news report using her lights and sirens to cut through traffic while commuting. B1

Swiss Banks Criticized
A federal judge in Brooklyn said that Swiss banks had been stonewalling in a landmark case concerning their conduct during the Nazi era and were perpetrating a ''big lie'' by continuing to deny wrongdoing in their handling of Holocaust victims' accounts over many decades. B2

SPORTS D1-7

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Funding Stem-Cell Research
Gov. James E. McGreevey will use his budget message to announce a plan to make New Jersey the first state to finance research on human embryonic stem cells, officials in the governor's office said. B1

OBITUARIES A13

ARTS & IDEAS B7-17

How Jesus Really Looked
Jim Caviezel, the dark-haired, blue-eyed star with brooding good looks who plays Jesus in ''The Passion of the Christ,'' is a Hollywood hunk who probably bears little resemblance to what the Jesus of history looked like. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

New Rule May Affect N.Y.S.E.
Federal regulators are contemplating a rule change that could steer trades away from the New York Stock Exchange and to its electronic rivals, according to people who were informed of the discussions. C1

Witness Falters in Trial
The prosecution rested its case in the Martha Stewart trial, and a key prosecution witness reversed some earlier testimony and then partly reversed that change. C1

Black Says He Was Coerced
Conrad M. Black testified that he was duped, coerced and threatened by the independent directors of Hollinger International into agreeing to resign as its chief executive. C1

Inquiry Into Parmalat Law Firm
Investigators looking into the collapse of Parmalat, the Italian dairy and food giant, are looking at its outside law firm, Zini & Associates. C1

Stocks Slide for the Week
The Dow Jones fell 45.70 points, to 10,619.03, 8.82 points lower than last week's close. C4

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Making votes count: elections with no meaning; judicial activism; losing touch with reality.

Column: David Brooks.

Bridge B14
TV Listings B17
Crossword B14
Weather D8


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); IMMIGRATION (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); AL-QAEDA (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (69%); MEDICARE (68%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); IMMIGRATION LAW (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); JUDGES (62%); APPEALS COURTS (61%); MARRIAGE (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%); MEDICAID (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: WILLIAM H PRYOR (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); HONG KONG (93%); HAITI (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (92%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



493 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: HOUSE AND SENATE RACES

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Outcry on Right Over Bush Plan On Immigration

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Feb. 20 

 BODY:
Amid the crowded field of Republicans vying for a seat in the Senate here, Jim Oberweis seems a most unlikely insurgent. He is a wealthy supporter of President Bush who favors pinstriped suits, tax cuts and a constitutional amendment blocking same-sex marriage.
 But in recent weeks, Mr. Oberweis, a plainspoken dairy owner, has become a leader in a widening conservative revolt against the president's sweeping plan to grant temporary legal status to millions of illegal immigrants.
 ''The president's plan is just plain wrong,'' Mr. Oberweis says in a radio advertisement and at public appearances that have drawn hundreds of supporters to his campaign. ''I want to be the voice for Illinois voters to tell the president we think illegal immigration cannot be rewarded with amnesty.'' 
 Mr. Oberweis is a symbol of a simmering conservative uprising against one of the president's biggest initiatives. One month after Mr. Bush promised the most comprehensive overhaul of immigration law in nearly two decades, opposition to his plan is mounting among conservative Republicans vying for votes in House and Senate races in Illinois, North Carolina, California, Kansas and elsewhere.
 With his plan, Mr. Bush hopes to revamp an immigration system widely viewed as broken and to re-establish his credentials as a compassionate conservative -- particularly with Hispanic and swing voters -- at the start of an election year. But in debates, campaign stops and interviews, some Republican candidates have sharply criticized his position as they seek to tap into conservative anxiety over the proposal. 
 The plan has left the party divided, much like the growing deficit has. Some Republicans -- backed by some Hispanic constituents -- praise the president for trying to make it easier for businesses to employ illegal immigrants for low-wage jobs that Americans are reluctant to take. Others argue that the plan is tantamount to an amnesty for lawbreakers. The issue is so complicated and divisive that Republicans in Congress now say it is unlikely that legislation supporting the president's plan will be introduced this year.
 Senator Saxby Chambliss, the Georgia Republican who is chairman of the Senate subcommittee on immigration, said he believed Congress would make headway this session on other proposals guiding the hiring of foreign farm workers. He said he hoped consensus on Mr. Bush's plan could be reached ''within the next couple of calendar years.''
 But Mr. Chambliss, who supports Mr. Bush's broad proposal, acknowledged that the plan had already become a lightning rod in some Republican contests around the country. ''I've seen it in the Georgia primary,'' he said in a telephone interview this week. ''The candidates there are critical of the president on this issue. 
 ''You've seen a lot of the Republican base has gotten all excited and all negative toward the president's proposal for the wrong reason,'' Mr. Chambliss said. ''They really need to read what the president said. The president does not favor amnesty. He's been very clear on that.'' 
 In a Senate hearing last week, Bush administration officials said that illegal immigrants living in the country as of Jan. 7 -- a group estimated at about eight million or more -- would be eligible for temporary work permits for an initial period of three years, if they can show they have jobs and if their employers certify that Americans cannot be found for the jobs. 
 The officials said the permits could be renewed several times and that the workers could apply for permanent residency without leaving the United States. By legalizing the status of millions of immigrants who officials say are peaceful and hard working, immigration agents will be able to focus on foreigners who pose terrorist or criminal threats.
 Mr. Bush has also promised to stiffen enforcement of immigration laws and to increase the number of people who can obtain permanent residency status.
 Vernon Robinson, a Republican contender for a House seat in North Carolina, said that smelled like amnesty. He said his supporters wanted illegal immigrants deported and American troops stationed on the border with Mexico, particularly after the 9/11 attacks. 
 ''There's a major disconnect between rank-and-file Walmart-Kmart Republicans and the party leadership on this issue,'' said Mr. Robinson, who has raised more money than any other Republican in his race.
 Numbers USA, a policy group that favors reducing immigration, has identified about a dozen races where immigration is an important campaign issue among Republican contenders. Many Hispanic leaders have also criticized Mr. Bush's plan for not going far enough. It is unclear whether the issue will be a deciding factor for voters or whether it will dampen enthusiasm for Mr. Bush among conservatives.
 Terry Holt, a spokesman for Mr. Bush's re-election campaign, said he believed conservatives would recognize that the president has remained faithful to his key beliefs. ''Though there are debates about one issue or the other, on balance the president has stayed true to conservative principles and conservatives respect the president for leading on principle and attacking serious problems whatever they might be,'' he said.
 Mark Krikorian, of the Center for Immigration Studies, which seeks to limit immigration, countered that conservative voters, already doubtful about the president's commitment to fiscal austerity, might stay home on Election Day or vote for lawmakers opposed to Mr. Bush's plan. 
 The debate is boiling in conservative circles. In January, National Review magazine ran a cover story on the president's plan titled: ''Amnesty, Again.'' 
 This month, The Wall Street Journal published dueling pieces on its opinion pages. Fifteen Republicans including Grover Norquist, Newt Gingrich and Jack Kemp hailed the president's plan as ''a humane, orderly, and economically sensible approach to migration.'' 
 Nine conservative stalwarts, including David Keene, Paul Weyrich and Phyllis Schlafly, responded, ''Everyone with any common sense knows that it will only encourage a new wave of illegal aliens.''
 In California, where Republican candidates have opposed the plan in two races, the Republican Party chairman, Duf Sundheim, said he believed the president would ultimately bring people around.
 Kris Kobach, a former Justice Department official campaigning for a House seat in Kansas, is doubtful. He says the 9/11 attacks left Republicans more concerned about immigration than in the 1990's when Patrick J. Buchanan criticized immigration to improve his presidential prospects. ''When Buchanan was pushing this issue, it had a nativist and protectionist flavor,'' said Mr. Kobach, who developed the federal program that required Arab and Muslim visitors to register with the government. ''Today it's about national security and law enforcement.''
 Here in Illinois, Mr. Oberweis is the only Republican candidate in his race who has made opposition to the president's plan a prominent part of his message. That stance, he says, has cost him some support. 
 In 2002, House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois, supported Mr. Oberweis's unsuccessful bid for the Senate. This time around, Mr. Hastert declined to endorse him, saying he ran a poorly managed campaign two years ago. Mr. Hastert also criticized Mr. Oberweis's decision to challenge the immigration plan.
 That has not stopped Mr. Oberweis from calling for a crackdown on illegal immigration. Next week, he plans to release a television advertisement on the subject. 
 ''I've always had a tendency to say what's on my mind,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jim Oberweis, a Republican who is running for a Senate seat in Illinois, called President Bush's plan for illegal immigrants ''just plain wrong.'' (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); AMNESTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAX LAW (77%); FOREIGN LABOR (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); MARRIAGE (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (69%); FARM LABOR (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: SAXBY CHAMBLISS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



494 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: ENVIRONMENT

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Marshes a Vengeful Hussein Drained Stir Again

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: KIRMASHIYA MARSH, Iraq, Feb. 16 

 BODY:
Steering his wooden skiff between thick clumps of reeds, Kadum Abdullah took one hand off his pole and held it up for a visitor to see.
 Two fingers were bent in unnatural positions, broken years ago in a Baghdad prison by torturers who accused him of conspiring against the government, he said.
 ''I left the marshes in 1992 and went to prison the same year,'' Mr. Abdullah, 40, said as he stood barefoot in his boat. ''Some of my friends were executed, some released, some spent years in prison.'' 
 That is just a sampling of the fates met by the displaced dwellers of these marshes in southern Iraq, once among the largest wetland ecosystems in the world. In the early 1990's, in a move that transformed the very face of nature in this country, Saddam Hussein ordered the 7,700-square-mile area drained and its residents attacked to force out Shiite Arabs he suspected of resisting his rule.
 Last spring, local engineers began breaking dams and levees upriver to reflood the area, and Mr. Abdullah says he now uses his twisted hand again for what it was meant to do -- poling his boat, cutting reeds and casting fishing nets.
 But what seemed a simple matter of reflooding the marshes has turned into an endeavor as tangled as the aquatic plants taking root here. In the largest and most complex wetlands restoration project being undertaken by the American government, scientists and engineers are grappling with problems ranging from dismal water quality and an absence of health care to uncertainty over whether residents here can sustain themselves through fishing and the selling of reeds and dairy products.
 The dam-breaking last spring brought some early success. The swamp is teeming with renewed life. Water buffalo lumber through floating algae, and ducks paddle along the surface. 
 It is an environment in which Mr. Abdullah's people, known as the Marsh Arabs, have been living for 5,000 years, since the dawn of Sumerian civilization between the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers.
 ''It was like a street here after the marshes were drained,'' Mr. Abdullah said while a neighbor carrying a duck-hunting rifle floated by in a small boat. ''We need more water. Our lives are connected to the water. If we get more, we'll be content.''
 The United States Agency for International Development has budgeted $4 million for the restoration effort. This month, dozens of Iraqi and foreign scientists met in southern Iraq to begin putting together a plan, looking at everything from medical needs to the types of fish re-entering the ecosystem.
 The central concern is how to reintegrate the Marsh Arabs into the wetlands environment. In June and July, researchers counted 83 settlements, or about 73,000 people, in the marshes, down significantly from estimates of up to 250,000 in 1991, but more than recent tallies of 40,000 or so, said Peter Reiss, a social anthropologist leading the team. Since that survey, thousands of people have returned from all over Iraq and from refugee camps in Iran, where some still remain.
 Noble savages they are not. Many clamor for electricity and paved roads, and some say they prefer concrete or brick homes to the primitive arched reed houses scattered throughout the marshes. Some of the families who stayed in the area through the 1990's say they would like to hold on to the dry-land farming they have developed rather than return to an existence dependent on fishing and water buffalo.
 Local engineers have slowed the reflooding for fear of displacing those families. Many homes were submerged by the destruction of dams and levees over the summer.
 ''The original situation will be almost impossible to recreate,'' said Jonathan Greenham, the agricultural officer with Usaid in Iraq. ''In terms of preserving the culture, I think that is probably a forlorn hope.''
 One of the biggest complaints voiced by the Marsh Arabs is over the poor quality of the water. They regularly beseech visitors for bottles of mineral water or soda. Mr. Reiss said almost everyone here suffered from diarrhea. Many carry giardia, a waterborne parasite. 
 Water purity plummeted during the draining, and scientists are now trying to determine whether the reflooding has brought in too much salt.
 ''We can't drink this water,'' Zael Hashim, 42, said as she stood near a reed home her family had recently built. ''I think the Euphrates side has too much salt. Before we left, the water was good, but now it's too salty.''
 From 1991 to 1997, government engineering projects drained more than 80 percent of the marshes. After American-led forces ousted Mr. Hussein last April, Marsh Arabs went to the irrigation departments of nearby cities to ask them to reflood the region.
 In this western marsh area, engineers from the city of Nasiriya used bulldozers to break a dam blocking the Garaf River, a tributary of the Tigris. Then they increased water flow from a nearby dam blocking the Euphrates. But the engineers slowed the reflooding in December after realizing that 200 homes in the area would be swept away, said Ali Shaheen, director of the irrigation department in Nasiriya.
 ''These people are farming for grains and wheat,'' Mr. Shaheen said. ''We're asking organizations affiliated with the United Nations to build simple homes or complexes for them on higher areas.''
 But those residents who have readapted to the traditional way of life here are demanding more water. 
 ''We need water in our marshes in Fahood,'' Thuraya Khalaf, a mother of 11, said to a water engineer showing visitors around Kirmashiya Marsh, part of the larger Hammar Marsh. ''We are suffering. Saddam just destroyed us, then he left.''
 Small water buffalo wandered around outside Ms. Khalaf's two reed homes, built here just five days ago. Ever since the old government drained the nearby Fahood Marsh, the family has moved from marsh to marsh every few months in search of grazing areas for their 10 water buffalo, she said.
 ''If we have water, we can have stability,'' Ms. Khalaf said. ''Without water, that's impossible.''
 But many of the 200 local farming families live in Fahood Marsh, making it impossible to reflood the area immediately, said Badr Muhsen, the water engineer.
 Most of the water in the reflooded areas is now one-and-a-half to six-and-a-half feet deep, he said. The variety of fish has begun to increase. The main economic question is whether the marshes can be restored to a degree that would allow residents to sustain themselves. 
 Along a road leading to Adil Marsh, also within Hammar Marsh, grimy children stand next to small sacks of six-inch silver fish, hoping to sell the tiny catches. Residents pour water buffalo milk into containers on the back of trucks that make the rounds of local markets. Some people estimate that the marshes once provided 60 percent of the fish on tables in Iraq and 70 percent of the dairy products, said Mr. Reiss, the anthropologist.
 But how much of the marshes can be restored might be out of Iraqi hands. All but one of the rivers that feed this area are now controlled by dams in neighboring Turkey, Syria and Iran. The struggle for water in this desiccated part of the world has only increased the dam-building.
 In Kirmashiya Marsh, those concerns remain distant for residents. As Mr. Abdullah poled his boat through the water, he pointed to the stands of green reeds.
 ''I collect these and sell them in the markets,'' he said. ''Now it's spring, and the reeds will be thicker and better. If there's more water, then conditions will improve. This is what we call a rebirth.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Marsh Arab poles his canoe through Kirmashiya Marsh in southern Iraq. Residents are returning as the marshes are restored. (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
A Marsh Arab fishing in Kirmashiya Marsh, which is again teeming with life. It is a way of life that has lasted thousands of years.
 A woman outside her hut in Kirmashiya Marsh. A central concern is how to reintegrate the Marsh Arabs into the wetlands environment. (Photographs by JOAO SILVA for The New York Times)(pg. A6)Chart: ''A Fertile Valley Turned to Dust''The marshes in southern Iraq were once among the largest wetland ecosystems in the world but have nearly disappeared since Saddam Hussein ordered them drained. Now the United States Agency for International Development is working to reflood the land.(Source by Scientific Visualization Studio, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center)(pg. A6)Map of Iraq highlighting Marsh areas from 1973 and the Marsh areas of 2000. (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WETLANDS (90%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); CONSPIRACY (77%); LAND RECLAMATION (74%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); WATER QUALITY (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); FLOOD CONTROL (67%); SPORT HUNTING (67%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (65%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) MARYLAND, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



495 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE NORTH CAROLINA SENATOR

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Edwards Calls for 4 Debates, But Kerry Is Cool to the Idea

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Feb. 20 

 BODY:
Senator John Edwards returned to New York on Friday for the second of five straight days of campaigning in the state, and pressed the themes of job loss and economic despair while stepping up his push for a fresh series of debates before the Super Tuesday primaries, on March 2.
 ''I am proposing that we schedule four debates as soon as possible in different locations that work for all of us,'' Mr. Edwards said in a letter to Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the front-runner for the Democratic presidential nomination. 
 In his letter, Mr. Edwards dropped his insistence on a one-to-one format, after Mr. Kerry's campaign agreed Thursday to a debate next week in Los Angeles on the condition that it include the other remaining candidates: Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio and the Rev. Al Sharpton. But that debate, in only one of the 10 Super Tuesday states, is not enough, Mr. Edwards said. ''I ask that we also give people in places like New York and Ohio the chance to see where we stand on the issues,'' he said. 
 Later in the day, though, Mr. Kerry's campaign issued a statement saying he preferred to spend the time before Super Tuesday ''crisscrossing the country talking to as many voters as possible.''
 ''We don't know where John Edwards has been, but we've had a real debate on the real issues facing Americans each and every day of this campaign,'' the Kerry statement said. ''We're not sure what John Edwards is going to say now that he had the opportunity to say in 18 debates.''
 Mr. Edwards tried to play down a need for him to win New York -- or indeed any of the states voting on March 2 -- although he acknowledged that time for him to mount a comeback was growing short: Mr. Kerry has won 15 of 17 primaries and caucuses. Mr. Edwards, of North Carolina, has only one victory, in South Carolina, though a close second-place finish in Wisconsin on Tuesday gave his campaign new impetus. 
 Mr. Edwards has decided to make a stand in those parts of the most populous Super Tuesday states that have suffered economically during the Bush administration. He has pointed to New York, Maryland, Georgia, Ohio and California as states in which he expects to do well.
 On Friday, he was clearly running hard and sticking firmly to his script. He gave essentially the same speech, portraying himself as the Democrats' most passionate advocate for the struggling, at a morning rally in downtown Savannah, Ga.; to a raucous, overflow crowd of more than 400 at Prince George's Community College in Largo, Md.; and at the Polish Cadets Hall here in Buffalo, where more people showed up than the sweltering main auditorium could accommodate, forcing organizers to pipe the speech to an additional 200 people downstairs.
 In an effort to draw a distinction between himself and Mr. Kerry, Mr. Edwards has recently been emphasizing his goal of overhauling the nation's trade policies. At the Savannah rally on Friday, he said of his campaign: ''Just so you know, there's going to be a fight here. It's not going to be easy. There are a lot of people on Wall Street who like it just the way it is.''
 And in Maryland, he again pointed to his own small-town working-class background, saying it was why he wanted to make the problems of ''working middle-class families'' the centerpiece of his presidency. ''This is part of who I am,'' he said.
 But Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, who has endorsed Mr. Kerry since abandoning his own campaign, told reporters in a conference call Friday that he was surprised that Mr. Edwards had criticized Mr. Kerry's Senate vote for the North American Free Trade Agreement. In reality, Mr. Gephardt said, the two men have similar positions on trade policy: that any further accords include enforceable labor standards and environmental protections that would be required of the nation's trading partners.
 ''What they're both saying they want to do is exactly the same thing,'' Mr. Gephardt said.
 Here in New York, the latest Marist College poll shows Mr. Kerry with a considerable lead among the state's likely Democratic primary voters. He draws the support of 66 percent, compared with 14 percent for Mr. Edwards, 7 percent for Mr. Sharpton and 3 percent for Mr. Kucinich. (Ten percent remain undecided.)
 But the survey also found that some support was quite soft: 22 percent of those polled said they might well change their minds before primary day. 
 The poll, of 404 likely voters, was conducted from Tuesday through Thursday of this week and had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus five percentage points.
 Mr. Edwards's campaign took several steps Friday to portray itself as national in scope, hoping to blunt accusations that he had been picking and choosing among primary targets while the front-runner, Mr. Kerry, waged a national campaign. In two such steps, the Edwards organization announced the opening of its first campaign office in one Super Tuesday state, Minnesota, and named a state campaign director for another, Connecticut. It also said it would begin running television advertisements in Ohio and Georgia on Sunday. 
 In Georgia on Friday morning, William McLaughlin, business manager for Local 508 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, stood in the middle of Johnson Park in downtown Savannah, watching Mr. Edwards march down palm-lined Bull Street at the head of a group of cheering young people.
 It did not bother Mr. McLaughlin that on Thursday, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. endorsed Mr. Kerry. ''We're hoping Edwards and Kerry are going to gang up together, one for president and one for vice president,'' he said. ''If they do, they're unbeatable.''
 Mr. Edwards took pains, as he always does when campaigning in the South, to point to his regional roots and promise that he would not let President Bush beat him ''in my backyard.'' 
 But would it really be possible for a Democratic ticket of Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards to beat President Bush in conservative Georgia? 
 ''It's going to be very close,'' Mr. McLaughlin said. ''But it can be done.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Edwards, carrying his populist theme to three states, stopped yesterday at the Polish Cadets Hall in Buffalo and was greeted warmly. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%); DENNIS KUCINICH (55%); AL SHARPTON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



496 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Bush Chooses the F.D.A.'s Chief to Run Medicare and Medicaid

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 20 

 BODY:
President Bush announced on Friday that he would nominate Dr. Mark B. McClellan, the food and drug commissioner, to run Medicare and Medicaid, the health insurance programs for more than 70 million Americans.
 Dr. McClellan faces a huge logistical and political challenge: to provide prescription drug coverage to the elderly while fending off Democratic attacks on the new Medicare law, which Mr. Bush sees as his greatest achievement in domestic policy. 
 If confirmed by the Senate, Dr. McClellan will become administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which spends more than $480 billion a year and regulates nearly every sector of the nation's health care system.
 While firmly committed to the president's free-market policies, Dr. McClellan has shown a knack for working with members of both parties in a pragmatic way that blends science, economics and politics.
 Dr. McClellan, a physician and economist, has received rave reviews from drug companies for his work as chief of the Food and Drug Administration, a post he assumed in November 2002. He served earlier at the White House, as health policy coordinator and a member of Mr. Bush's Council of Economic Advisers. In the Clinton administration, he worked on domestic policy, as a deputy assistant secretary of the Treasury in 1998-99.
 Dr. McClellan, 40, will need all that expertise and more to carry out the new Medicare law successfully.
 Under that law, Medicare beneficiaries can obtain drug discount cards this June and full-fledged drug benefits starting in January 2006. But the law also gives private health insurance plans a big new role in Medicare, and Democrats, who attack the legislation as overly generous to pharmaceutical and insurance companies, want sweeping changes, which the administration is resisting. As commissioner of food and drugs, Dr. McClellan has tried to stamp out, on safety grounds, a wave of support for allowing imports of lower-cost prescription drugs from Canada.
 Dr. McClellan is the brother of the White House press secretary, Scott McClellan, and a son of the Texas comptroller, Carole Keeton Strayhorn, who has hinted that she may run for governor in two years. 
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said Dr. McClellan was ''a superb choice.'' Senator Max Baucus of Montana, the senior Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, which oversees both Medicare and Medicaid, said: ''Dr. McClellan was an expert resource throughout last year's Medicare prescription drug negotiations. I found him to be a straight shooter who doesn't allow politics to get in the way of good policy.''
 Mr. Baucus predicted that the nomination would be confirmed ''without a hitch.''
 Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat who has long worked on health legislation, said, ''Mark McClellan is a very able individual, but he will have a difficult job defending and implementing the inadequate, ill-conceived prescription drug law passed by this Republican Congress.''
 Republicans expect the law to pay political dividends. But they have spent the last 10 weeks defending it against criticism from Democrats who say it is wholly inadequate to meet the needs of America's elderly. 
 If Dr. McClellan is confirmed, his deputy, Dr. Lester M. Crawford, will become acting commissioner of food and drugs. Peter J. Pitts, a spokesman for the F.D.A., said its policies would continue unchanged. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); INSURANCE (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); HEALTH CARE (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); GOVERNORS (60%); MEDICAID (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (91%); CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); TED KENNEDY (58%); HENRY WAXMAN (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



497 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Senate Moves to Restrict Incentives for Big S.U.V.'s

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Feb. 20 

 BODY:
The Senate has moved to curb a tax incentive that encourages small businesses to buy the largest and most fuel-inefficient sport utility vehicles.
 Owners of small businesses can now deduct up to $100,000 a year for capital expenses, including everything from cars to medical equipment to software. 
 Most auto purchase deductions, however, are capped at $10,000 or less each year. But vehicles weighing 6,000 pounds or more fully loaded have no limit, be they pickup trucks, vans or sport utility vehicles. 
 The Senate's proposal would cap deductions for S.U.V.'s at $25,000 a year but leave the broader $100,000 small-business deduction unchanged. Deductions for large pickup trucks and vans would not be affected. 
 The proposal, which was among the fine print of a voluminous highway financing bill passed by the Senate this month, must still gain approval from the House to be included in the final bill that comes out of Congress.
 When the pertinent section of the tax code was written, it was intended to allow construction businesses and farmers to deduct for hauling vehicles but restrict other deductions. But in recent years, S.U.V. sales have surged and the deduction has been used by a variety of businesspeople for purchases of dozens of luxury sport utility vehicle models. Among those eligible are Hummers, Range Rovers, the Ford Expedition, the BMW X5, the Toyota Sequoia, the Nissan Armada and the Infiniti QX56.
 Only recently could the full cost of these vehicles be deducted. In its first big tax cut package, the Bush administration proposed raising the overall small-business deduction to $75,000 from $25,000 to stimulate job creation. Congress responded by raising the deduction to $100,000, but the S.U.V. deduction was not addressed. 
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, played a crucial role in adding the S.U.V. cap to the highway bill, according to people close to the drafting process. The House has not yet passed its own version of the bill. 
 With the deficit swelling, the White House has urged Congress to keep costs down and has said the Senate's $318 billion highway bill is $62 billion too expensive. Whether the administration will favor an S.U.V. cap as a means of cost savings, however, remains to be seen. 
 An administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said, ''We are taking a careful look at the merits of the Grassley alternative in the Senate highway bill.''
 Taxpayer and environmental groups have long criticized the so-called S.U.V. loophole as a potent federal incentive to increase oil consumption. 
 ''This is a good proposal for rolling back what is a ridiculous loophole,'' said Aileen D. Roder, program director for Taxpayers for Common Sense, who added: ''We're not opposed to farmers using this. We're opposed to lawyers and doctors using this to buy vehicles for their latte runs.''
 Car dealers and some automakers have embraced it as an enticement to get customers to buy some of their most expensive products. 
 ''Allow me to introduce you to a fabulous opportunity,'' wrote a salesman at a Hummer dealership in Alaska last year, in a letter to potential customers. ''A tax loophole so big you could drive a Hummer H2 through it!''
 Jim Jenkins, an accountant in Southfield, Mich., said he had seen a wide variety of people using the deduction for a variety of vehicles, from doctors to plumbers. 
 ''I had a guy come in, a realtor who was looking at an Explorer and instead got a Navigator,'' he said. ''That saved him $20,000.''
 The Ford Explorer, which starts at more than $20,000 less than the Lincoln Navigator, is too small to qualify for the tax credits. 
 ''I would like to see more stimulus for other vehicles, not just S.U.V.'s or trucks,'' Mr. Jenkins said. ''These are targeted for small businesses and that's where the jobs are being created. But I think all the vehicles should be treated the same.''
 Similar views were expressed by Eron Shosteck, spokesman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, a leading industry lobbying group. 
 ''Our position has been that you should expand it to apply to all vehicles that are used for small business,'' he said. ''An accountant who uses a four-door sedan should be able to deduct that the same way he can deduct computer equipment. Right now, it's discriminating against passenger cars.''
 Ms. Roder said, ''Certainly, anytime we have the kind of budget deficits we're facing at this point, we have to do whatever is possible to reduce federal spending.''
 ''It's not the best use of taxpayer dollars,'' she added. 
 Environmentalists see the tax as part of a quilt of loopholes that have long stalled progress in curbing oil consumption. The fuel economy of the average new vehicle sold in the United States fell to 20.4 miles a gallon in the 2002 model year, its lowest point in 22 years, according to the most recent data from the Environmental Protection Agency. 
 And that data somewhat understates the nation's fuel economy. Why? Because the largest S.U.V.'s, vans and pickup trucks -- those that weigh more than 8,500 pounds--are also not regulated by the nation's fuel economy rules. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (89%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (88%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (88%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); PICKUP TRUCKS (76%); TAX RELIEF (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); JOB CREATION (63%) Taxation; Small Business; Tax Deductions; Automobiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



498 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Calls Release of JetBlue Data Improper

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 20 

 BODY:
Transportation security officials violated the spirit of the 1974 privacy act when they helped a Pentagon contractor obtain computerized passenger data from JetBlue Airways, the chief privacy officer of the Homeland Security Department said in a report released on Friday.
 The official, Nuala O'Connor Kelly, did not call for any firings, reprimands or other punishments. Instead, she recommended training sessions for the workers involved and an evaluation of training on privacy issues throughout the department. She also called for new guidelines for sharing data and an investigation by the department's inspector general into whether the workers exceeded the normal scope of their work. 
 The finding comes as the Homeland Security Department is trying to gain support for an extensive new computerized passenger screening system, intended to pick out who should be carefully searched at airports. The system has raised objections from privacy advocates.
 In the JetBlue case, Ms. Kelly said, ''we do not have a privacy act violation because this agency was not the recipient of the data.'' She said that the company that received the data, Torch Concepts of Huntsville, Ala., was subject to federal privacy rules because it was a government contractor, but that she had limited her investigation to her agency.
 An assistant to the chairman of Torch Concepts referred questions to the company's lawyer, who did not return a call. A call to the public information office of the Army, which awarded the contract to Torch Concepts, was not returned on Friday. 
 JetBlue faces some class-action lawsuits on behalf of its passengers. And a nonprofit group here, the Electronic Privacy Information Center, lodged a complaint against the airline with the Federal Trade Commission, citing deceptive trade practices. 
 The complaint also names a contractor for JetBlue, Acxiom. Torch Concepts paid Acxiom to match the passenger names with information about each passenger, including sex, whether the person owned or rented a home, years at current residence, economic status, number of children, Social Security number, number of adults in the household, occupation and vehicles owned, according to Ms. Kelly's report.
 But the data was not diverse enough for Torch Concept's purpose, according to information gathered by Ms. Kelly. The company's purpose was to test techniques for spotting potential terrorists through travel patterns. The data was obtained soon after the Sept. 11 attacks in 2001.
 Torch Concepts approached several airlines, Ms. Kelly said, but none would provide data without the involvement of a regulatory agency. So Torch Concepts brought in the Transportation Security Administration, then part of the Transportation Department, as an intermediary. The security agency is now part of Homeland Security.
 Ms. Kelly said that to protect privacy, her department should take ''appropriate account of all the promises made with the data'' and thus be involved in any data transfer that violates the privacy rules of the group that collected it, including the airlines. ''Any parties involved must be aware of the original covenants, or original promises, that attach to that piece of data,'' she said.
 At the Electronic Privacy Information Center, Marc Rotenberg, the executive director, said that Homeland Security ''can't simply be in the see-no-evil mode'' and should not stand by even if other agencies violate privacy rules.
 The JetBlue controversy has emerged as an early skirmish for a bigger battle, over the Computer-Assisted Passenger Pre-Screening program, known as CAPPS-2, which is supposed to help the government identify potential terrorists. The current system is operated by the airlines on information they gather, but under CAPPS-2, the airlines would give the government the names, home addresses, phone numbers and dates of birth of passengers. The government would give that to a private contractor, which would use commercial databases to determine whether the information represented real identities. Privacy advocates say the system is too intrusive. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVACY RIGHTS (93%); NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); AIRLINES (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); TERRORISM (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); ARMIES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); CONTRACT AWARDS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CHILDREN (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); CLASS ACTIONS (64%) Airlines and Airplanes; Airports; Privacy; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (96%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (93%) Jetblue Airways; Homeland Security Department; Torch Concepts

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%)

PERSON: Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (70%) ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



499 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1; In Chinatown, a $10 Trip Means War

LENGTH: 1634 words

HEADLINE: Weary Owners Struggle to Stay Afloat in Cutthroat Competition

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
The economics are hard to fathom, Pei Lin Liang, the owner of Fung Wah Bus Transportation, admits. At a time when a cab ride from Midtown to Chinatown might cost close to $10, how can a four-hour, 215-mile journey to Boston aboard Fung Wah or any of its competitors cost the same?
 Mr. Liang, 41, a gaunt chain-smoker who regularly staggers through 15-hour work days, offers his explanation through a translator. It is ''business by suicide,'' he says.
 Budget travelers up and down the Northeast know Fung Wah as the original ''Chinatown bus.'' The company was the first to start running vans and buses between Boston and New York at bargain rates, becoming something of a cult phenomenon. Today, it is just one of many players in the hypercompetitive Chinatown bus industry. With companies locked in a price war, rates have plummeted on Fung Wah's route, reaching a new low last spring at $10 for a one-way trip to Boston. Yes, $10. 
 Prices from New York to Washington, D.C., were similar at one point, but went up after a few months when companies decided that they could not hold out any longer. But the price to Boston has held steady for months, with a new company even joining the fray. 
 On this January evening, Mr. Liang is scheduled to drive the 9 p.m. to Boston. His day began at 7 a.m., when a co-worker woke him at home about a bus that refused to start in Boston. Mr. Liang and a mechanic drove up to fix it. But on the way back, their car broke down outside New Haven. 
 While his colleague waited for a tow truck, Mr. Liang flagged down a passing Fung Wah bus for the ride back, rushing into the company's garage in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, just after 8:30 p.m. After a last-minute repair on a loose window, he was on his way to Manhattan. 
 At Fung Wah's bus stop on the corner of Canal and Chrystie Streets, a crowd has already gathered. Mr. Liang's sister hops aboard to take tickets. Although boarding is notorious for being chaotic, this evening it is orderly. By 9:10 p.m., almost every seat is taken. 
 Once the exclusive province of middle-aged Chinese, ridership on the Chinatown buses has exploded. Fung Wah now offers 18 departures a day in Boston and New York and boasts a fleet of more than 20 buses, some owned, some rented.
 ''It was really interesting to see the transition,'' says Kenton Beerman, a Columbia University graduate student who started riding Fung Wah four years ago and estimates he has taken it more than a hundred times. ''You started seeing more and more white people coming on, black people, Indian people. It was a very eclectic mix.''
 More than a half-dozen bus companies operate within blocks of each other in Chinatown. There have even been incidents of violence, including a murder, linked to the bus competition. Mr. Liang says he would sell his business if he could. His wife, Ling, who works every day from 6:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. in Fung Wah's tiny ticket booth, wants them to give it up as well.
 ''The work is never over,'' he says. 
 Bus industry officials say these are difficult times for mainstream operators, with fuel and insurance costs climbing. Many companies have gone bankrupt. Profit margins at surviving firms, which charge far more than the Chinatown buses, are often as low as 1 percent.
 ''Greyhound as a company has not made money in a number of years,'' says Peter J. Pantuso, president of the American Bus Association, which represents more than 3,500 companies, including Greyhound. ''If they're not making money at a higher price, nobody that I know has been able to figure out how other operators who charge as little as $10 can make money.''
 Mr. Liang explains his ledger this way: it costs about $800 to cover the driver's salary, tolls, fuel, maintenance and insurance every round trip; on a 57-passenger bus, if the bus is full, he makes about $340; if it is not, he could lose money. 
 Some have wondered if the Chinatown buses are cutting corners. But officials at the state's Department of Transportation say Fung Wah's inspection record is good. Out of nine buses inspected in the last fiscal year, only one was cited, for mechanical problems including a broken axle and an exhaust system leak. 
 Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration records show the company has not had any serious accidents recently and has adequate insurance coverage. 
 But officials for the safety administration say they are investigating several Chinatown bus companies, including Fung Wah, although they declined to be specific. The company garnered only a conditional rating in a review conducted last September, meaning it violated one or more safety standards. 
 Andy Beck, a spokesman for the safety administration, said he would not elaborate on the violations because of the investigation. 
 Mr. Liang says he had no idea that his company received a conditional rating. He spoke with investigators through a translator, he says, and admitted that he never knew until the review that some federal safety rules were stricter than state ones. 
 Federal officials, for example, require that he test his drivers for drugs and alcohol, a rule he says he now follows. He pointed out, though, that his drivers have always been properly certified by the state's Department of Transportation. 
 Currently, there is a police investigation into violence and intimidation associated with the bus routes. Neighbors in Chinatown have complained of gang-like violence, and last week a bus driver was stabbed. 
 In a series of surprise police inspections of Chinatown buses this week, two Fung Wah buses were towed for a variety of infractions, including a broken windshield wiper. Mr. Liang insisted, however, that the violations had no impact on passenger safety, and many longtime riders say they ride Fung Wah because they feel it is the most professional of the Chinatown companies.
 This evening, Mr. Liang does not have time for dinner, shrugging off his wife's suggestion that he take something with him. He calls out in heavily accented English for everyone to take a seat. 
 Soon, he is cruising north on the I-95, while most of his passengers doze. Traffic tonight is light. A respite, for once. 
 It has been nine months since a new bus company showed up on Canal Street, a few blocks away from Fung Wah. They used no advertising. Just a simple sign: ''Boston -- $10.''
 At the time, Mr. Liang was charging $25 for a one-way ticket, $45 for round-trip, almost half of what mainstream bus lines charged. Even so, he had no choice but to lower his prices: ''Otherwise, I'd lose customers.'' 
 It is hardly what Mr. Liang envisioned when he started his bus company. After emigrating from China in 1988, he worked as a bus boy. He eventually landed a job as a deliveryman for a noodle factory. To earn extra cash to support his wife and two daughters, he ferried passengers from Sunset Park to Chinatown for $1.50 a trip. 
 In 1997, he took a risk, borrowing $60,000 from relatives to buy four vans and go into business for himself.
 ''Some people start restaurants,'' he says. ''I started a van service.''
 He quickly decided that the competition between Sunset Park and Chinatown was too fierce but noticed that many Chinese families had children attending elite schools in Boston. 
 After Labor Day in 1998, he bought a permit to transport passengers on federal highways and printed up some crude fliers. 
 At first, he drove once a day, leaving New York at 9 a.m. and Boston at 2 p.m., charging $25 each way. 
 Less than a month later, he was up to three times a day. Most of the time he was driving an empty van back and forth.
 But Thanksgiving proved to be his breakthrough. Fung Wah vans were packed. Excited, he borrowed more money to buy several 20-passenger buses. By the end of 1999, he was operating seven departures a day with a mixture of vans and buses. 
 Back then, the operation was decidedly less professional. Vans were cramped and crowded. Drivers would often drop off passengers upon request in Queens and Brooklyn, or even along the way. 
 But now, Fung Wah was facing competition. A travel agency, called TravelPack, began offering one-way tickets at certain times for $15. Other companies soon joined the fray. To give himself an edge, Mr. Liang hired a company to design a Web site for Fung Wah in late 2002. Other companies did the same. Soon about half of Fung Wah's tickets were being sold over the Internet. Mr. Liang also switched exclusively to buses.
 When prices dropped, Mr. Liang fired six employees, whittling down an already thin work force. His basic operation now consists of 25 full- and part-time drivers, a smattering of ticket sellers and a group that works overnight in Sunset Park to get the buses ready for their runs the next day. 
 Pay is not high. Drivers receive $100 for every round trip. 
 Mr. Liang took on more work himself. He now works seven days a week and jokes that his role is that of ''general help.'' Sometimes a boss, sometimes a driver, sometimes a mechanic. 
 Jimmy Chen, whose company, Ivy Media, runs the Web sites of more than a dozen Chinatown bus companies, including Fung Wah's, is mystified by the math: ''At $10, I cannot figure it out, how they can stay alive.'' 
 But he believes if anyone can make it, Fung Wah will, because it is has been around the longest. 
 Mr. Liang has survived so far. Although his revenue initially fell by half, business has increased about 40 percent since the drop in price, prompting him to go out and buy two more buses. 
 ''I see how there are so many customers,'' he says. ''That means I have to fight harder.''
 Just before 1 a.m., Mr. Liang pulls up just outside the gates of Boston's Chinatown. He has made good time. After his passengers troop off, Mr. Liang steers the bus back on the road, heading to an apartment that drivers use. 
 He will drive back in the morning. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Pei Lin Liang, the owner of Fung Wah Bus Transportation, watches passengers board his bus in Chinatown.
At Fung Wah's terminal in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, Mr. Liang prepares one of his buses for the journey to Boston. (Photographs by Steve Hart for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Passengers board a Fung Wah bus at the intersection of Canal and Chrystie Streets, near the Manhattan Bridge. A trip to Boston costs only $10. (Photo by Steve Hart for The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (91%); ASIAN AMERICANS (72%); PRICE CUTTING (68%) Buses; Chinese-Americans; Insurance; Buses

ORGANIZATION: Fung Wah Bus Transportation

PERSON: Michael Luo; Pei Lin Liang

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; Boston (Mass); New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



500 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: Inflation Is Mild, Despite Energy Costs

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 20 

 BODY:
The biggest jump in energy costs since the start of the Iraq war stung motorists and people heating their homes in January. From an economic perspective, though, the overall inflation picture still looked good. 
 The Consumer Price Index, the government's most closely watched inflation gauge, rose by 0.5 percent, more than double December's 0.2 percent increase, the Labor Department reported Friday.
 Much of the January increase was attributed to sharply higher energy prices, reflecting a cold snap in parts of the country; strong global demand; and tight supplies, economists said. 
 Excluding energy and food prices, which tend to swing widely from month to month, the core rate of inflation increased by a mild 0.2 percent in January, up from a 0.1 percent increase in December but suggesting that prices for many goods and services remain fairly stable. 
 For the 12 months ended in January, consumer prices were up by just 1.9 percent. Core prices, excluding energy and food, went up by an even smaller 1.1 percent, continuing the slowest pace in more than four decades. 
 In January, overall energy prices soared by 4.7 percent, the largest increase since March 2003 and a huge leap from the moderate 0.3 percent increase in December. 
 The jump in energy prices in January accounted for more than three-fourths of the overall increase in consumer prices for the month, the Labor Department said. 
 Gasoline prices advanced by 8.1 percent, natural gas prices were up 3.8 percent and fuel oil costs rose 7.2 percent.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Consumer Prices''Percent change, month to month.Graph tracks consumer prices from February 2003 through January 2004.U.S. and Major Metropolitan AreasNot seasonally adjustedPercent change from previous:U.S.MONTH: +0.5YEAR: +1.9New YorkMONTH: +0.3YEAR: +2.7Los AngelesMONTH: +0.8YEAR: +1.8ChicagoMONTH: -0.1YEAR: +1.5Boston*MONTH: +0.9YEAR: +4.3Dallas*MONTH: -0.1YEAR: +1.0Detroit* (Dec.)MONTH: -1.1YEAR: +0.9Houston* (Dec.)MONTH: -1.2YEAR: +2.7Philadelphia* (Dec.)MONTH: -0.7YEAR: +2.0San Francisco* (Dec.)MONTH: -0.5YEAR: +1.1Washington*MONTH: +0.3YEAR: +2.2*Calculated bimonthly. Figures are for January, except as noted.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%) United States Economy; Consumer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



501 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Young Adults Call L.I. a Fine Place to Grow Up, and Leave

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: UNIONDALE, N.Y., Feb. 19 

 BODY:
One by one, the children of suburbia are leaving Long Island.
 There is the 24-year-old graduate student who moved to Washington State to study anthropology and found that it was cheaper to live in Seattle than Hempstead. There is the sheriff's investigator, Timothy Ortwein, who left and bought his first house, in West Virginia, at age 23. And there is Emil Soskin, 24, a third-year law student who is fed up with strip malls and subdivisions and longs for an apartment in Greenwich Village. 
 New York's suburbs have long struggled to hold on to young adults, but county officials and demographers say the problem is becoming a crisis. In Nassau, Suffolk and Westchester Counties, 18- to 34-year-olds are leaving the suburbs at some of the fastest rates in the nation, moving upstate, to the South and the West and into New York City.
 Long Island, whose Levittown developments are shorthand for postwar suburbia, is a petri dish for the problem, development experts say. The young families and just-marrieds who once flocked here now balk at the soaring housing prices, high taxes and monochrome of suburban life.
 ''What is the incentive to stay on Long Island?'' asked Ilyssa Lindner, a 23-year-old nursing student who lives in Oceanside. ''The cost of living out here is absolutely outrageous. You graduate, you're making good money, and you can't afford anything. It's driving younger people off Long Island.''
 In the past decade, the number of Long Islanders between 18 and 34 years old has dropped 20 percent, a rate five times the national average, according to a recent survey of Long Island's population and economy. New York's northern suburbs saw an 18 percent drop in the same population over that time.
 The pattern is gradually reshaping the suburbs, on Long Island in particular, said Carrie Meek Gallagher, who directed the survey, the Long Island Index 2004. As the average age creeps up and birth rates fall, county officials worry that an absence of young workers will cripple the suburbs' growth and economies.
 ''You're losing the talent; you're going to start losing businesses,'' Ms. Gallagher said. ''It could change the whole face of the island, the whole face of the place in the next 10 years.''
 Some county experts said they have started to notice ripples of that change. Some companies bus in employees from Brooklyn and Queens, while other major Long Island businesses like Grumman or Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory are struggling to attract talented young engineers, Ms. Gallagher said.
 To stem the exodus, county officials said, they have to make Long Island both enticing and affordable -- both difficult tasks. The Nassau county executive, Thomas R. Suozzi, said building denser developments and moderately priced housing in downtowns, poorer neighborhoods and old brownfield industrial sites is crucial to keeping younger people on Long Island.
 ''If we're going to grow, we're going to have to change our rules from when they were set up, in the 40's and 50's,'' Mr. Suozzi said.
 For countless people, the cycle of suburbia has been a predictable loop: Grow up, gripe that there is nothing to do, attend college, move to the city, then move back home to raise a family and skate toward middle age. But conversations this week with a dozen young Long Islanders who have left -- or want to -- suggest that they have little interest in returning.
 Mr. Ortwein, 24, the sheriff's investigator, is one of them. After growing up in Malverne and graduating from Elmira College with a degree in criminal justice, Mr. Ortwein tried to find a job as a police officer so that he could afford to buy a house in Nassau County, where the median home price is $405,000. 
 Instead of renting, he got a job with a sheriff's department in Virginia, and he and his wife bought a three-bedroom log cabin nearby, in Jefferson County, W.Va. His property taxes are $600 per year, compared with Long Islanders's taxes that average $3,000 to $4,000.
 ''I'm the only kid from our high school class who's actually been able to afford a house,'' Mr. Ortwein said. ''We had to give up Long Island to be able to afford something. We're going to stay. The schools are great down here, and it's a great place to raise kids.''
 According to the Long Island survey, 53 percent of young adults in Nassau and Suffolk Counties are thinking of moving away, while only one-third of people in their 20's and 30's in the northern suburbs and New Jersey said they were considering leaving.
 In the survey and interviews, those who want to go say that the cost of living and taxes are too high, that housing is scarce and overpriced, and that the available jobs do not pay enough to support living in the suburbs. Many said they need a car to get around, but do not want to pay high insurance costs and $1.80 for a gallon of gas.
 ''The average person 18 to 34 can't afford to live on Long Island,'' said Jon Teaford, a professor at Purdue University who studies suburban development. 
 The exodus happens in drips and spurts. Some go away to college and never return, while others go back to live with families in the suburbs after graduating, either to apply to graduate schools, plot their next move or save money on rent while they work. 
 In the upper-income Suffolk County hamlet of Dix Hills, Shelby Tancer, 25, lives with his parents and commutes to Ozone Park, Queens, to teach first grade.
 His friends from high school have all moved, but Mr. Tancer said he hopes to stay.''I thought more people would be around,'' he said, talking at his parents' home. ''The money and the costs are just crazy. You can't be fresh-faced out of college and buy a house or rent a condo. It's tough. It's tough to stay around here.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Emil Soskin, a law student, wants to live in Greenwich Village. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)Chart: ''BY THE NUMBERS -- Youth in Flight''Long Island has lost more young people than other parts of the New York City area.PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN NUMBER OF 18-TO-34-YEAR-OLDS, 1990 TO 2000Long Island: -20%Northern Suburbs: -18New Jersey Suburbs: -12New York City Metro Area: -9United States: -4New York City: 0(Source by U.S. Census Bureau data analyzed by the Rauch Foundation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (86%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); FAMILY (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); TRENDS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); COST OF LIVING (71%); CITIES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (60%); RETAILERS (56%) Children and Youth; Housing; Taxation; Labor; Suburbs; Population Shifts; Economic Conditions and Trends; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: COLD SPRING HARBOR LABORATORY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (60%)

PERSON: Patrick Healy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) Long Island (NY); New York City; New York City Metropolitan Area; Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



502 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Foes Attack Bid to Renew Oyster Creek Nuclear License

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY

 BODY:
The owner of the nation's oldest nuclear power plant -- Oyster Creek, in New Jersey -- plans to seek a license renewal to operate the plant through 2029.
 The decision by the company, AmerGen Energy, comes as anxieties and complaints about Oyster Creek's age, safety, and vulnerability to terrorism are mounting. For years after it began operating in 1969, Oyster Creek enjoyed something of a benign co-existence with residents and government officials in Ocean County, where it is situated. Traditionally, it has attracted far less hostility than the Indian Point nuclear plant in New York State's Westchester County. 
 But in recent weeks, as the time for Oyster Creek's license-renewal decision grew nearer, several communities have passed resolutions expressing varying degrees of concern about the plant and its continued operation after its current 40-year license expires in 2009. Four towns have called for an immediate closing of the plant. Five others oppose renewal of the license, and six more have expressed various concerns about Oyster Creek. 
 Last Friday, the state's environmental commissioner, Bradley M. Campbell, publicly added the McGreevey administration's voice to the criticism. In a letter to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which will review the renewal application, Mr. Campbell said Oyster Creek was ''not a model facility.'' Mr. Campbell said yesterday that the administration's biggest concerns were safety, security, and staffing. ''We will oppose relicensing unless those issues are fully addressed, and we are not yet persuaded they can be addressed.''
 Also yesterday, a day after AmerGen announced its plans, a New Jersey senator, Leonard T. Connors, a Republican whose legislative office is about two miles from Oyster Creek, said he opposed a new 20-year license for the plant in favor of one for 5 or 10 years. ''The older it gets, the more vulnerable it gets,'' Senator Connors said. He also said he opposed a new license of any length unless a nuclear experts, independent of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, were allowed to assess the plant's safety. 
 A critic of Oyster Creek, the New Jersey Public Interest Research Group, said in a statement that it opposed license renewal. ''At its current age, the plant is an unnecessary risk to public safety,'' the group said. 
 Officials in Lacey Township, a community of about 26,000 where Oyster Creek is located, say they are happy with the plant. ''Of course we want it,'' the town clerk, Veronica Laureigh, said yesterday. ''We definitely want that plant operating as long as it's safe.'' Ms. Laureigh said Oyster Creek has paid about $3.8 million in property taxes each year to help finance the town's annual budget of about $20 million. In addition, she said, Lacey Township receives $11.4 million a year from a state energy tax because the generating station is within its borders.
 A vice president of AmerGen Energy, Bud Swenson, defended the plant, which has a generating capacity of 636 megawatts, when he announced the company's plans for the application on Thursday. ''Oyster Creek is a clean, safe and reliable source of electricity for New Jersey,'' Mr. Swenson said in a statement. ''It's a major economic engine for Ocean County. We want those contributions to continue, and we will do it in a safe, efficient, environmentally sensitive way or we won't do it at all.'' The company said it planned to submit its renewal application in mid-2005. The current license expires in April 2009.
 Customarily, nuclear plants submit renewal applications to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission five years before licenses expire. AmerGen Energy will miss that timetable by about a year. Plants that give the commission less than five years to review an application risk being ordered shut by the commission if it does not approve a new license by the expiration date of the old one.
 A spokesman for AmerGen Energy, Craig Nesbit, said the company would miss the five-year timetable because it did not decide until late last year to seek renewal. He said the applications seek precise information and will take over a year to prepare. A spokesman for the regulatory commission, Neil Sheehan, said the plant had satisfied all safety requirements. Mr. Sheehan said two of the commission's inspectors were at Oyster Creek, observing operations on a continual basis, as they do at all nuclear power plants. 
 ''If the plant wasn't safe to operate, we wouldn't allow it to continue to run,'' Mr. Sheehan said. ''They're under our microscope all the time.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: AmerGen Energy is seeking to renew its license to operate the Oyster Creek nuclear power plant, extending the plant's life through 2029. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (93%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); POWER PLANTS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); LICENSES & PERMITS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); CLOSINGS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); TERRORISM (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); PROPERTY TAX (60%) Electric Light and Power; Security and Warning Systems; Taxation; Atomic Energy; Electric Light and Power

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%) Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station; Amergen Energy (Co) 

PERSON: Robert Hanley; James E (Gov) Mcgreevey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Lacey Township (NJ); New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



503 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1541 words

HEADLINE: Staring Into the Mouth of the Trade Deficit

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
Huge container ships steam into this port every day loaded with clothes and shoes, furniture and video games, electronics and aircraft parts made in Asia.
 On their return trip, those same ships often cross the Pacific half empty, bearing chemicals, meat, grain and engines and routinely stuffed with hay or scrap paper.
 ''This is what the nation's trade imbalance really looks like,'' said Mark Knudsen, the deputy director of the Port of Seattle. ''We've got so much empty cargo space, it pays to ship over hay for Chinese animals, or scrap paper to be recycled into packaging for Barbie dolls.''
 Perhaps more than anyplace else in the country, this port city lives or dies by trade. The Seattle area and Washington State earn more per capita from trade than any other area of the country -- $5,875 in 2002. One out of three jobs in the state is tied to trade. And with its deep historical ties to northern Asia, Seattle sees China more as a customer than a competitor. 
 With last week's news that the annual trade deficit had reached $489.4 billion in 2003, a rise of about $70 billion, Seattle is once again caught up in the national debate over trade imbalances and the flight of jobs overseas. Even though most economists say many other factors have contributed to job losses, trade is becoming the focus -- or scapegoat -- here and in the national political debate as Americans try to adjust to the quickening pace of globalization. Two-way trade in the region declined by $11 billion from 2000 to 2002, a symptom, officials said, of the problems caused by the country's trade deficit. The state's unemployment rate has climbed to 6.8 percent, one of the highest in the country, giving the phrase ''offshoring'' a palpable meaning in this Pacific Rim city. 
 Industry leaders like Boeing and Microsoft are openly shifting some jobs overseas, and a high level of education has failed to protect software engineers with master's degrees from losing their jobs.
 Marcus Courtney, a union representative for information and technology workers, said that ''if outsourcing is a threat here, where 44 percent of Seattleites have a college education,'' then high-technology workers in the rest of the country should be worried.
 Representative Jennifer Dunn, a Republican from Bellevue, blames the decrease in exports for her region's unemployment rate and dismisses the focus on outsourcing as ''a problem we are going to have to live with from now on.''
 ''To my mind, trade is the one way we're going to create new jobs, so what we need are more trade agreements opening up more markets,'' she said. ''No one can stop the global economy. We have to take part and work on our strengths.'' 
 That is the conundrum. Nearly everyone supports trade here: Democrats and Republicans, elected officials, trade unions and industry giants like Boeing, Microsoft and Weyerhauser. But they disagree over whether the benefits are shared equitably, whether financing the soaring trade deficit will undermine the economy and whether the jobs lost through outsourcing will be replaced with equally good jobs.
 Microsoft, one of Seattle's signature companies, sells 60 percent of its products overseas, $18 billion worth last year, and is routinely praised and attacked for its global presence. Slowly but steadily, the company is outsourcing work to India and other countries while keeping most of its jobs in the Seattle area.
 Maggie Wilderotter, a senior vice president at Microsoft, said her company invested $6 billion in the region every year and that half of its new employees this year would be hired in the Seattle area.
 ''I don't look at jobs as outsourcing or insourcing,'' she said. ''We do business in 78 different countries, and it's important that we have employees that are part of that culture. The United States is our top talent pool.'' 
 The city's image is still recovering from the battle here five years ago when Seattle became famous as the site where protesters shut down global trade talks with demonstrations. 
 ''Some of the chic liberals around here enjoy making skeptical remarks about trade while they make money off of it,'' said David Brewster, executive director of Town Hall, a nonprofit civic association. ''The problem is we're the first to suffer when the world market suffers, and that is what is happening.''
 David K.Y. Tang, a trade lawyer at Preston Gates & Ellis, said that he was optimistic about globalization and its long-term ability to spread benefits here and abroad. In disputes about trade and jobs, he said, people forget that by competing in a global market, Seattle and its industries reap global profits even if that means ''we will suffer some of the pain in job losses.''
 ''The customers overseas want a piece of the pie, too, and we have to invest some of our profits back into the markets of our customers,'' Mr. Tang said.
 Today other voices are questioning the trade deficit. The billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett warned last November that allowing it to grow amounted to transferring America's net worth abroad ''at an alarming rate.'' 
 But economists and trade experts disagree over the link between trade and unemployment. 
 ''There isn't a correlation between high unemployment and our big trade deficit,'' said Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs in New York. ''But it's the combination of the two that has made trade such a hot political issue -- the hottest in my memory.''
 Much of the job loss during the Bush administration, economists say, was a result of increased productivity, new technology and the weak economy as well as global competition. But as the recession fades and the economy improves, there have been few new jobs to replace those that were lost, in part because global competition and the demand for greater productivity are as fierce as ever.
 The effect of the trade deficit is further complicated by the weakening of the dollar against the euro, which is raising hopes that the United States can significantly increase exports to Europe. The United States has a $94.3 billion deficit with the European Union, a $12.1 billion increase from 2002 but smaller than the record $124 billion deficit with China.
 Indeed, the United States is the only major industrial power with a deficit with its major trading partners.
 The fear in the white-collar workplace here is so strong that Representative Adam Smith, a Democrat from the southern end of Puget Sound, has asked the Government Accounting Office for a national study on the number of jobs that have moved overseas and which ones are at risk.
 ''We've got to figure out how to compete in the new economy without destroying our own livelihoods,'' Mr. Smith said. ''This study could help make sense out of a big public policy issue and steer us toward a tax policy that makes sense and where we need to put money into education and training.''
 Even the city's port is not safe from the debate over trade.
 Gregory J. Nickels, the mayor of Seattle, is battling the Port of Seattle and the longshoreman's union to close one of the city's three port terminals in a few years, saying it makes more sense to use the spectacular mountain-framed waterfront property for condominiums than cargo ships going back to Asia without full loads. He argues that even the $700 million of recent renovations on the port will not increase cargo traffic.
 ''The land values are such that when the port is only creating 13 jobs per acre, there may be a better way to create jobs,'' Mr. Nickels said.
 Rudolph Eric Finne, president of local chapter 19 of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union and a firm believer in trade, disagrees and says the proposal epitomizes the confusion over trade.
 ''The mayor's position is short-sighted,'' Mr. Finne said. ''Our share of maritime trade is bound to rise now that we've improved the port.''
 Even though Boeing recently lifted the nation's exports with sales of aircraft to China, here in Seattle the company has laid off 26,200 people in the last three years, in part because the Sept. 11 attacks brought a big drop in sales, according to Todd Blecher, a Boeing spokesman. To avoid more layoffs, the state gave Boeing more than $3 billion in tax breaks and subsidies to persuade the company to assemble its newest aircraft at an existing plant in the Puget Sound area.
 Seattle business and community leaders see an obvious answer to some of the trade problems just a hundred miles or so to the north, in Canada, where trade losses are less immediately catastrophic because of stronger national health and pension programs that protect workers while they search for new jobs.
 ''We don't have the social safety net we need to soften economic dislocation engendered by trade and changes in technology,'' said Bill Center, president of the Washington Council on International Trade, a nonprofit association. ''We have to drive fear out of the workplace with necessary benefits -- portable pensions, health care and money for retraining and education.''
 That, he said, could help people accept Seattle's place in the global economy and to understand that ''if the global economy doesn't grow, then America's economy can't grow.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ships often leave Seattle's port with their cargo bays half empty. (Photo by Annie Marie Musselman for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
David K.Y. Tang, a trade lawyer at Preston Gates & Ellis in Seattle, says he is optimistic on trade, even if it leads to some job losses. (Photo by Annie Marie Musselman for The New York Times)(pg. C3)Chart: ''For Trade Dependent, a Question of Jobs''Many states whose economies are significantly dependent on foreign trade have unemployment rates that are higher than the national average - currently 5.6 percent.WashingtonFOREIGN EXPORTS PER CAPITA, 2002: $5,875VALUEIN BILLIONS: $34.6RANK: 4UNEMPLOYMENT RATEDEC. 02: 7.0%DEC. 03: 6.8%TexasFOREIGN EXPORTS PER CAPITA, 2002: 4,575VALUEIN BILLIONS: 95.4RANK: 1UNEMPLOYMENT RATEDEC. 02: 6.5DEC. 03: 6.4VermontFOREIGN EXPORTS PER CAPITA, 2002: 4,141VALUEIN BILLIONS: 2.5RANK: 37UNEMPLOYMENT RATEDEC. 02: 3.7DEC. 03: 4.0AlaskaFOREIGN EXPORTS PER CAPITA, 2002: 3,994VALUEIN BILLIONS: 2.5RANK: 38UNEMPLOYMENT RATEDEC. 02: 8.4DEC. 03: 7.7LouisianaFOREIGN EXPORTS PER CAPITA, 2002: 3,931VALUEIN BILLIONS: 17.6RANK: 10UNEMPLOYMENT RATEDEC. 02: 6.3DEC. 03: 5.8MichiganFOREIGN EXPORTS PER CAPITA, 2002: 3,398VALUEIN BILLIONS: 33.8RANK: 6UNEMPLOYMENT RATEDEC. 02: 6.2DEC. 03: 7.2OregonFOREIGN EXPORTS PER CAPITA, 2002: 2,948VALUEIN BILLIONS: 10.1RANK: 23UNEMPLOYMENT RATEDEC. 02: 7.3DEC. 03: 7.2(United States)FOREIGN EXPORTS PER CAPITA, 2002: $2,463CaliforniaFOREIGN EXPORTS PER CAPITA, 2002: 2,722VALUEIN BILLIONS: 92.2RANK: 2UNEMPLOYMENT RATEDEC. 02: 6.9DEC. 03: 6.4MassachusettsFOREIGN EXPORTS PER CAPITA, 2002: 2,631VALUEIN BILLIONS: 16.7RANK: 12UNEMPLOYMENT RATEDEC. 02: 5.5DEC. 03: 5.7KentuckyFOREIGN EXPORTS PER CAPITA, 2002: 2,624VALUEIN BILLIONS: 10.6RANK: 21UNEMPLOYMENT RATEDEC. 02: 5.5DEC. 03: 5.4(Sources by Washington State Department of Community, Trade and Economic Development
 Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); OUTSOURCING (88%); GLOBALIZATION (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); DISMISSALS (68%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (66%); OFFSHORING (65%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (61%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) International Trade and World Market; Labor; Unemployment; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (97%) WASHINGTON, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) Seattle (Wash); Washington (State)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



504 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Farm Minister Says Onus Is on U.S. in Subsidy Fight

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 20 

 BODY:
Franz Fischler, the departing agriculture minister for the European Union, said on Friday that American policy makers can no longer use Europe as their scapegoat in the global battle over farm subsidies.
 After nine years of fighting to trim Europe's farm payments system and increase spending for food safety and the environment, Mr. Fischler said it was time to lay to rest the old stereotypes of subsidized European farmers amassing mountains of excess butter and lakes of surplus wine.
 ''American farmers now receive 10 times more than European farmers, but the myths haven't died,'' Mr. Fischler said. ''But here they act as if nothing has happened over the last few years, as if Europe hasn't made painful reforms to reduce their farm supports.'' 
 The issue of dealing with farm subsidies is urgent as the World Trade Organization resumed talks this week on agriculture after the United States and Europe accused each other of blocking the negotiations.
 Mr. Fischler said in an interview on Friday that he had reached tentative agreement in Geneva last week on ''90 percent of the trade agenda'' with the Group of 20, the developing nations that were pivotal in talks in Cancun, Mexico, last year.
 The countries, which include India, Brazil, China and South Africa, have said this latest round of global talks must include the reduction or elimination of many of the agricultural subsidies in rich nations. 
 To advance the negotiations, Mr. Fischler said Europe was opening its markets to cotton exports from poor West African nations and would finance the countries' export programs, another demand at Cancun. At the same time, Europe is reducing subsidies for its own cotton farmers and its cotton exports.
 In another nod to poor nations hoping that agricultural exports will be their ticket out of poverty, Mr. Fischler said the European nations would begin talks next month on opening the Continent's markets to sugar, a commodity that is as highly protected there as in the United States.
 ''You don't see that in the United States, '' Mr. Fischler said. ''The reality is we are moving away from the old-style supports of the 1990's but the United States isn't -- it has taken a step backward.''
 Washington, however, sees things differently. 
 In his latest trade proposal, Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, put the onus on Europe's agricultural export subsidies as the biggest stumbling block in global talks.
 ''Export subsidies distort trade more than any other measure,'' Mr. Zoellick wrote in a letter to trade ministers. ''To move the negotiations forward, I believe we should seek an understanding that there will be elimination of export subsidies by a date certain.''
 Mr. Fischler found the challenge one-sided.
 ''For my taste, Bob could have been more outspoken about attacking the U.S. export system,'' he said.
 But most members of Congress support Mr. Zoellick, routinely citing figures they say prove Europe outspends the United States by as much as five to one on farm subsidies. Now, with trade a central issue in the presidential campaign this year, it is unlikely that lawmakers will risk upsetting the powerful farm lobby by cutting into the record subsidies passed in the 2002 farm bill. 
 In what may be his last visit here, Mr. Fischler, who leaves office in October, came to Washington this week to remind lawmakers and administration officials that Europe has cut in half the money it spends on agriculture subsidies and support as a percentage of the group's gross domestic product.
 That money will be diluted further when 10 more countries are added to the European Union this year, along with their four million farmers.
 ''We did the final big step of reform last year before the expansion,'' Mr. Fischler said.
 Among the changes put in place during Mr. Fischler's tenure are the system of labeling and tracing food to ensure its safety; increases in financing for programs to protect the environment and preserve the beauty of the Continent's rural landscapes; and the tightening of laws for animal welfare, which essentially rule out many of the practices followed in the United States. 
 Indeed, Mr. Fischler predicted that the United States would eventually adopt the changes made in Europe, especially those aimed at tracing food from the farm to the supermarket.
 ''I'm really convinced you'll see the same here -- Americans will ask how was this produced, where did it come from, how were the animals treated,'' Mr. Fischler said. ''American society won't accept what they have now.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EXPORT PROMOTION (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); COTTON FARMING (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); FOOD SAFETY (57%) Agriculture; Crop Controls and Subsidies; International Trade and World Market; Agriculture

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%) European Union; World Trade Organization

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (76%) Elizabeth Becker; Franz Fischler; Robert B (Trade Rep) Zoellick

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); INDIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); AFRICA (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



505 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Edwards Is Taken to Task,Sort of, by Mayor Bloomberg

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday that Senator John Edwards was wrong when he suggested on Thursday that Republicans were holding their convention in New York to exploit the Sept. 11 tragedy, and that the city's economy was a shambles.
 But Mayor Bloomberg, a Republican, also softened his earlier criticism of Senator Edwards, a Democratic presidential candidate from North Carolina, saying that his comments were ''just political verbiage'' and that he did not hold them against the senator.
 ''I guess I'd say cut the guy some slack,'' the mayor said. ''It was just the normal political talk that nobody takes very seriously. The truth of the matter is, he was wrong. The city is doing very well.'' 
 Mayor Bloomberg, speaking on his weekly radio program on WABC-AM, cited the city's low commercial vacancy rate, and escalating real estate prices in all five boroughs as evidence of its economic resurgence. He also noted that Battery Park City, which is near the World Trade Center site, is almost fully occupied. 
 Still, the mayor noted that as someone who has been in the political spotlight himself, he could sympathize with Mr. Edwards and other candidates who end up saying things that are ''probably not well thought out and planned.''
 ''You just say them, you have to say something,'' he said. ''I'm sympathetic to that. I've done that myself. I don't think he really meant anything bad about New York City. The fact of the matter is that 9/11 is part of our heritage now and you cannot escape the fact that this war started here on the streets.''
 But just a day earlier, when asked by reporters to respond to Mr. Edwards's comments, Mayor Bloomberg had described them as ''preposterous.'' 
 ''New York is the world's second home and for anybody to say that, I guess he just hasn't been here,'' he said of Mr. Edwards. ''We'd love to have him come here and spend some money and see just what goes on in the streets of New York where crime is down, welfare rolls are down, jobs are coming in, people are building.''
 Mayor Bloomberg, who was a Democrat until he switched parties to run for mayor in 2001, said that Democratic leaders had also expressed interest in holding their convention in the city but ''wanted an exclusive.'' He said that he told the Democrats, as well as the Republicans, that the city was not going to turn down any business.
 ''I actually thought we would get both of them,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''But it's a little bit disingenuous to say that the Republicans are exploiting New York. The Republicans are here because it's a great venue to get a message out, to pull people together, and I think the Democrats would have been wise to come here and do exactly the same thing.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CRIME RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (68%); TRENDS (65%) Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism; Economic Conditions and Trends; Conventions, National (US)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (92%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%) Winnie Hu; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



506 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Shares Drop; Nasdaq Has 5th Consecutive Down Week

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street tried but failed to overcome disappointment over a jump in inflation yesterday, closing moderately lower despite assurances by the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, that the job market would improve. 
 The major indexes all ended the week with losses, and the Nasdaq composite index was down for the fifth consecutive week.
 Stocks started lower after a government report showed a sharp increase in prices for gasoline and other energy products in January, while the cost of other consumer goods remained relatively stable. In the afternoon, Mr. Greenspan's statement revived stocks briefly but the selling continued. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average ended trading with a loss of 45.70 points, or 0.4 percent, at 10,619.03. It lost nearly 80 points earlier in the session.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 2.95 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,144.11, while the Nasdaq composite index was off 8.03 points, or 0.4 percent, at 2,037.93.
 The Nasdaq, which has suffered the brunt of the market's uneven trading in recent weeks, slipped 0.76 percent for the week. The Dow was down 0.08 percent, and the S.&P. 500 was off 0.15 percent; both indexes had gains during the previous week.
 The Consumer Price Index rose 0.5 percent, higher than analysts had expected. But excluding energy and food prices, which often vary widely from month to month, the closely watched core rate of inflation rose 0.2 percent.
 The uncertainty on Wall Street was fanned by the Japanese government's decision yesterday to raise its terrorism alert to its highest level, which sent the dollar up against the yen. And a cautious assessment of business conditions Thursday by Hewlett-Packard also prompted some selling as investors locked in their profits, market analysts said.
 ''Here you have in the last two days a bunch of reminders that this is not a perfect world,'' said Joseph V. Battipaglia, chief investment officer at Ryan Beck & Company in New York. ''When you put that all together, it doesn't surprise me that it couldn't hold the advance of yesterday.''
 The decline, though, may be less a reaction to the report on consumer prices than a sign of investor reluctance to bid up technology stocks as the Nasdaq index nears 2,100, said Peter Cardillo, senior vice president and chief market analyst at S.W. Bach & Company.
 ''What we're seeing here is consolidation at the upper end of the trading range,'' he said.
 Yesterday's session reflected Wall Street's erratic pattern of late. After beginning the year with a robust rally, stocks have succumbed to uncertainty about earnings and the economy although the recovery continues at a fairly steady pace.
 Many investors are concerned about the ability of companies to continue growing at a solid pace in the months ahead.
 Hewlett-Packard lost 73 cents, or 3 percent, to $23.13, after the company's release of earnings Thursday prompted analysts to caution investors about its outlook. Hewlett's earnings, which rose 30 percent for the quarter, met market expectations.
 Other technology sector stocks were also lower. Cisco Systems was down 49 cents, to $23.19. Applied Materials slipped 38 cents, to $21.75.
 Other shares trading heavily included Coca-Cola, which announced Thursday that its chairman and chief executive, Douglas N. Daft, plans to retire at the end of the year. Coke was down 6 cents, to $50.94.
 Treasury prices fell yesterday. The 10-year Treasury note fell 16/32, to a price of 99 8/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.09 percent from 4.03 percent on Thursday.
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond dropped 29/32, to 1068/32. The bond's yield rose to 4.95 percent from 4.89 percent on Thursday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INFLATION (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); TERRORISM (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2004



507 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 5; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: LOWER MANHATTAN -- BUZZ

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: Calling Tech Support, in Many Tongues

BYLINE: By ERIKA KINETZ

 BODY:

THE SETTING -- For some new immigrants, the computer, like snow, is a distinctly American oddity. But many immigrant entrepreneurs, whose small businesses play a significant part in New York's economy, quickly realize that a computer is not the extravagance it once seemed in places like Liberia, Belarus, Haiti and Algeria.
 On a recent Wednesday night, a group of 12 entrepreneurs from around the globe gathered for a computer lesson at the offices of the New York Association for New Americans on Battery Place near ground zero; the immigrant aid organization has a comprehensive small-business assistance program. The eight weeks of classes, which run through mid-March, were financed by a $300,000 grant from Hewlett-Packard. 
 Some of the participants had never used a computer. For the lesson on accounting software, they sat in neat rows before sleek new Compaq Evo N800c laptops. But first came the part about the ''on'' button.

THE BUZZ -- ''This button right there will turn your computer on,'' Sotiris Cartsos, the instructor, said to Marlyne Coby, a Haitian immigrant who runs a small hair-braiding business from her home in Flatlands, Brooklyn.
 Mr. Cartsos had only two hours to chip away at the mysteries of the track pad, the space bar and the double click, as well as the software (QuickBooks Pro Edition 2003), United States accounting standards and the American tax system. 
 Mistakes were made. The back button was introduced. The details soon got more devilish. Partnership or LLC? Common name versus legal name? Fiscal year?
 Yefim Leyensol, an electrical engineer from Belarus, sped ahead but became marooned when a stubborn error message popped up on his screen. Back in Belarus, he had a computer. ''The same,'' he said, gesturing to the Compaq. ''But made in China. Cheaper in Byelorussia because somebody don't pay Microsoft.''
 Adama Ture, a mechanic who came to New York from Liberia a year ago, is trying to start an auto body shop with his brother in Staten Island, where they live. Computers were not a necessity in Liberia, but here, he said, ''you cannot do all your work with your hands; you need computers to do most work.'' 
 Record-keeping was especially unwieldy. ''Doing business in the Western world has to do too much with writing, with keeping documents,'' Mr. Ture said. He hoped the computer would help. 
 At one point in the lesson, the David Byrne song ''Like Humans Do'' started blaring from a computer at the front of the room. ''Is that part of QuickBooks?'' Mr. Cartsos asked. David Yakubov, a Russian mechanic with gray-streaked hair, smiled slyly. The music, he said, was no accident. ERIKA KINETZ


GRAPHIC: Photo: Computer magic at immigrants' fingertips. (Photo by Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (75%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (68%); ACCOUNTING (68%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ASSOCIATION FOR NEW AMERICANS INC (57%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) BELARUS (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



508 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: I Read, I Smoke, I Spin

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD. 
E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Laura Bush does not want that Chanel-wearing, shawl-draping, senator-marrying Teresa Heinz Kerry to get her house.
 It's a swell house, with doting servants, fresh flowers and grand paintings. 
 And she does not want her Bushie to be tarred for lacking character, after he ascended by promising to restore character to an Oval Office still redolent of thongs and pizza.
 So the reserved librarian who married the rollicking oilman on the condition that she would never have to make a political speech has suddenly transformed herself into a sharp-edged, tart-tongued, defensive protectrix of her husband's record. 
 Many White House reporters, including ones the first lady has been testy and sarcastic with, say they are thrilled with the new Laura. They found the old Laura ''plastic'' and ''unreal,'' limited to treacly concerns about children, reading and being George's rock. The new Laura, they say, has ''juice.''
 But I kind of miss the old Laura, the one who long ago shocked W.'s paternal grandmother by describing her interests in a way that sounded, heaven forfend, French: ''I read, I smoke and I admire.'' The new Laura reads polls, fumes and admonishes. A cool Marian the Librarian morphed into a hot Mary Matalin, running around the country spinning reporters, slicing and dicing Democrats, and raking in dough at fund-raisers.
 I always had a cozy image of Laura Bush curled up in a window seat in the White House solarium, reading Dostoyevsky and petting a cat dozing beside her. She seemed beyond politics, an estimably private, utterly classy presence unsullied by the nasty edge that Bush family politics takes on when a Bush pol gets in trouble, not the sort to needle political rivals and the press or rigorously catalog injustices the way Barbara Bush did.
 Not that Laura was bland. I liked the confidence with which this champion of literacy blew off the poets she'd invited to the White House last year, once she realized they planned to do to her husband what Eartha Kitt did to Lyndon Johnson -- turn a cultural event into an antiwar protest. It was her party, and she could cry foul if she wanted.
 During the 2000 campaign, she was content to be the serene counterpoint to her husband's boyish bouncing off the walls. She rejected Hillary's two-for-the-price-of-one mantra and told The Times's Frank Bruni, ''I'm not that knowledgeable about most issues. . . . And just to put in my two cents to put in my two cents -- I don't think it's really necessary.''
 Bush advisers liked her detachment from the messy arena. They thought she made her husband seem grounded, moderate and down to earth, a contrast with the obsessive, egoistic ambition of the Clintons and Al Gore.
 But this time around, it is Mr. Bush who is getting attacked on credibility and do-whatever-it-takes ambition. His strategists, panicked about chaotic Iraq, confused economic policy, cascading deficits and incoherent National Guard records, needed to draw, if you'll pardon the expression, the most unimpeachable person in the White House into the fray. They pitched her as Mr. Bush's secret weapon. Maybe, after the David Kay debacle, the White House just needed to unearth a weapon -- any weapon.
 The woman known for telling her husband to tone it down is now telling his critics to get lost. In an interview with The Associated Press on Thursday, she said of the National Guard flap: ''I think it's a political, you know, witch hunt, actually, on the part of Democrats.''
 Speaking to The Times's Elisabeth Bumiller, a prickly Mrs. Bush defended her husband on Iraq and shared the chip on his shoulder about the East Coast elite, apparently resentful that they might consider her a 50's throwback, doing women's work.
 Talking to ABC's Terry Moran, Mrs. Bush harshly responded to Terry McAuliffe's AWOL charge: ''I don't think it's fair to really lie about allegations about someone.'' She stated flatly that W. was pulling Guard duty in Alabama. When Mr. Moran asked how she knew, she replied, ''Well, because he told me he was.''
 The last time a powerful man from Texas got into trouble and sent his wife out to defend him, it was W. contributor Kenny Boy Lay.
 The president can't skirt the issues by hiding behind Laura's skirts forever. One way of showing character is to come out from behind all her protestations about his character. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); WRITERS (69%); FUNDRAISING (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



509 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Meet The Zippies

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India 

 BODY:
We grew up with the hippies in the 1960's. Thanks to the high-tech revolution, many of us became yuppies in the 1980's. And now, fasten your seat belt, because you may soon lose your job to a ''zippie'' in the 2000's.
 ''The Zippies Are Here,'' declared the Indian weekly magazine Outlook. Zippies are this huge cohort of Indian youth who are the first to come of age since India shifted away from socialism and dived headfirst into global trade, the information revolution and turning itself into the world's service center. Outlook calls India's zippies ''Liberalization's Children,'' and defines one as ''a young city or suburban resident, between 15 and 25 years of age, with a zip in the stride. Belongs to generation Z. Can be male or female, studying or working. Oozes attitude, ambition and aspiration. Cool, confident and creative. Seeks challenges, loves risks and shuns fears.'' Indian zippies carry no guilt about making money or spending it. They are, says one Indian analyst quoted by Outlook, destination driven, not destiny driven; outward, not inward, looking; upwardly mobile, not stuck-in-my-station-in-life. 
 With 54 percent of India under the age of 25 -- that's 555 million people -- six out of 10 Indian households have at least one zippie, Outlook says. And a growing slice of them (most Indians are still poor village-dwellers) will be able to do your white-collar job as well as you for a fraction of the pay. Indian zippies are one reason outsourcing is becoming the hot issue in this year's U.S. presidential campaign.
 I just arrived here in Bangalore, India's Silicon Valley, to meet the zippies on the receiving end of U.S. jobs. Judging from the construction going on every block here, the multiple applicants for every new tech job, the crowded pub scene and the families of four you see zipping around on a single motor scooter, Bangalore is one hot town.
 Taking all this in, two things strike me about this outsourcing issue: One, economists are surely right: the biggest factor eliminating old jobs and churning new ones is technological change -- the phone mail system that eliminated your secretary. As for the zippies who soak up certain U.S. or European jobs, they will become consumers, the global pie will grow, and ultimately we will all be better off. As long as America maintains its ability to do cutting-edge innovation, the long run should be fine. Saving money by outsourcing basic jobs to zippies, so we can invest in more high-end innovation, makes sense.
 But here's what I also feel: this particular short run could be a real bear -- and politically explosive. The potential speed and scale of this outsourcing phenomenon make its potential impact enormous and unpredictable. As we enter a world where the price of digitizing information -- converting it into little packets of ones and zeros and then transmitting it over high-speed data networks -- falls to near zero, it means the vaunted ''death of distance'' is really here. And that means that many jobs you can now do from your house -- whether data processing, reading an X-ray, or basic accounting or lawyering -- can now also be done from a zippie's house in India or China.
 And as education levels in these overseas homes rise to U.S. levels, the barriers to shipping white-collar jobs abroad fall and the incentives rise. At a minimum, some very educated Americans used to high salaries -- people who vote and know how to write op-ed pieces -- will either lose their jobs, or have to accept lower pay or become part-timers without health insurance.
 ''The fundamental question we have to ask as a society is, what do we do about it?'' notes Robert Reich, the former labor secretary and now Brandeis University professor. ''For starters, we're going to have to get serious about some of the things we just gab about -- job training, life-long learning, wage insurance. And perhaps we need to welcome more unionization in the personal services area -- retail, hotel, restaurant and hospital jobs which cannot be moved overseas -- in order to stabilize their wages and health care benefits.'' Maybe, as a transition measure, adds Mr. Reich, companies shouldn't be allowed to deduct the full cost of outsourcing, creating a small tax that could be used to help people adjust.
 Either way, managing this phenomenon will require a public policy response -- something more serious than the Bush mantra of let the market sort it out, or the demagoguery of the Democratic candidates, who seem to want to make outsourcing equal to treason and punishable by hanging. Time to get real. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OUTSOURCING (89%); FAMILY (77%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); GENERATION Z (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); SUBURBS (54%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: KARNATAKA, INDIA (88%) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



510 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 2; F.Y.I.

LENGTH: 630 words

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POLLAK. 
E-mail: fyi@nytimes.com

 BODY:

Gutted, Not Given Up

Q. The Metro-North train stops in Harlem right next to a gutted and burned-out red-brick building at 125th Street and Park Avenue. Since it's been in that shape for decades, why don't they tear it down?

A. Because it's a landmark, it's in better shape than it looks, and developers have had big plans for it, even before plans for a Marriott Courtyard hotel were announced last year for the parking lot across 125th Street.
 The six-story building, formerly occupied by the Corn Exchange Bank and the Mount Morris Bank, was completed in 1883, packed with ornamentation. It has been gutted since at least the early 1970's. But a year ago, the Economic Development Corporation sold the charred, roofless city-owned structure to a partnership between Full Spectrum Building and Development, a Harlem concern, and Ethel Bates and her nonprofit corporation, Resurgence Inc.
 ''We have fought hard for that building,'' Ms. Bates said. She plans a Harlem Culinary School for people interested in a restaurant career along with stores and office space to help finance the culinary school. Renovation is expected to start in late spring or early summer, Ms. Bates said, and the $11 million project should take no more than a year to complete. 

Bears of New York

Q. With all the talk about bears encroaching on the New Jersey and northern suburbs, when was the last time a bear roamed in Manhattan?

A. Not only bears, but wolves, too, roamed Manhattan in the 17th century, even after the British took it over from the Netherlands.
 ''Memorial History of the City of New York'' (1892), edited by James Grant Wilson, says of the late 1600's: ''A dense forest in which deer herded plentifully covered the middle and upper parts of the Island, where a few of the Manhattans lived in almost primitive barbarism. Wolves roamed at large through this wilderness, and committed occasional ravages during the remainder of the century; and bears were not infrequent in their visits to the island, and afforded rare sport to the settlers, as the annals show.
 ''A bear hunt which took place, as late as 1680, in an orchard between the present populous Cedar Street and Maiden Lane, is chronicled by the Rev. Charles Wooley.'' 
 A different, apocryphal-sounding account, possibly inspired by the same shooting, claims that a freshly killed bear that had crossed the Hudson was displayed by a butcher on the site of what later became the Washington Market in Lower Manhattan. According to this account, that was the origin of the term ''bear market,'' meaning a fall in stock prices, or speculating in anticipation of a fall.
 Another explanation of the term comes from the Dictionary of Phrase and Fable (1898), which cited the proverb of ''selling the skin before you have caught the bear,'' and referred to those who entered into contracts in the notorious South Sea bubble in the early 18th century, to transfer stock at a stated price.

The Town of Linoleum

Q. Didn't Staten Island once have a neighborhood called Linoleumville? How did that happen?

A. Travis, on Staten Island's west shore next to the now-closed Fresh Kills landfill, was first settled in the 1600's and used to be called Travisville, after Col. Jacob Travis, a major property owner.
 Frederick Walton, the Englishman who invented linoleum and patented it in the early 1860's, opened a factory in the community in 1872, in partnership with Joseph Wild, called the American Linoleum Manufacturing Company. The first linoleum factory in America, it even had its own company town, Linoleumville. 
 By 1900, the plant employed 800 people, and brought in many Polish immigrants. The plant closed in 1931 and was later replaced by a Consolidated Edison generating plant. The community has gone back to being Travis. MICHAEL POLLAK


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CULINARY SCHOOLS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); SPORT HUNTING (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



511 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6; L.I.@WORK

LENGTH: 370 words

BYLINE: Compiled by Warren Strugatch. 
E-mail: libiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:

North Fork Bank Acquires GreenPoint
 The North Fork Bank, owned by the North Fork Bancorporation (NYSE: NFD) of Melville, has agreed to acquire the GreenPoint Financial Corporation, the parent of the GreenPoint Bank, for $6.3 billion in stock. GreenPoint is based in Manhattan. 
 The expanded North Fork will have more than $50 billion in assets, $30 billion in deposits and more than 340 branches in three states, making it one of the largest consumer banks in New York City area. The deal continues North Fork's expansion efforts, following a December announcement of plans to acquire the Trust Company of New Jersey.
 John A. Kanas, the chairman and chief executive of North Fork, will retain both positions in the merged institution. Thomas S. Johnson, GreenPoint's chairman and chief executive, will become a North Fork director, and Bharat B. Bhatt, GreenPoint's president, will become a senior executive vice president.
 ''The economics of this transaction are compelling,'' Mr. Kanas said in a statement. ''We are bringing together two very simple and profitable banking strategies under one management team.'' 

Arrow's Profit Rises Sharply
 Arrow Electronics (NYSE: ARW) of Melville tripled its fourth-quarter profit on rising sales in North America and Asia, the company said on Tuesday.
 Fourth-quarter net income rose to $26 million, or 26 cents a share, up from $7.6 million, or 8 cents a share, for the same quarter last year. Quarterly sales rose to $2.48 billion from $1.89 billion. 
 The company, a global distributor of electronic components, attributed its performance to recovering global components market and to its own cost-saving efforts.
 The company also announced organizational changes, among them the appointment of Jan Salsgiver as the vice president for global strategy and operations, a new position. 

Acclaim's Loss Narrows
 Acclaim Entertainment (Nasdaq: AKLM), a video game maker in Glen Cove, said Tuesday that it had narrowed its net loss to $9 million for the fiscal third quarter, which ended Dec. 28. It recorded a net loss of $13.9 million for the same quarter last year.
 Sales in the quarter fell to $39.3 million from $63.1 million in last year's third quarter.
 Compiled by Warren Strugatch

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); RETAIL BANKING (73%); ELECTRONICS WHOLESALERS (71%); COMPUTING EQUIPMENT WHOLESALERS (71%); ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC GOODS WHOLESALERS (66%); ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MFG (64%); COMPUTER GAMES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (98%); ARROW ELECTRONICS INC (69%); TRUST CO OF NEW JERSEY (57%)

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (98%); ARW (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS423690 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (69%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (69%); SIC5065 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT (69%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



512 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13; SOAPBOX

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Local Taxes? Well, Not Exactly

BYLINE: By THOMAS R. SUOZZI. 
Thomas R. Suozzi is the Nassau County executive.

 BODY:
NEW YORK residents pay higher local taxes than residents of any other state in the nation, according to a recent study by the nonpartisan Citizens Budget Commission that showed that New Yorkers' taxes are 72 percent higher than the national average. Connecticut is a distant second at 20 percent above the national average.
 How did this happen? Are New York's county executives, town supervisors, mayors and other local officials all reckless, big-spending, high-taxing incompetents trying to penalize senior citizens on fixed incomes while discouraging businesses from locating in their communities? Or is there something different that each local government in our state has in common?
 Yes, it's our state government in Albany. 
 New York state's senators, assembly members and governor continue to pass politically popular programs and then shift the cost off the state's books and onto those of the local municipalities. Local officials are blamed for the high local taxes to pay for these programs.
 New York's Medicaid program is the best example of this cruel game. It's the most expensive one in the United States, 2.5 times larger than the national average on a per-beneficiary basis. And New York requires the highest level of county financing in the country. The state requires counties to pay 25 percent of the cost of acute-care Medicaid services and a full 10 percent of the cost of long-term care; most other states do not.
 In the past, economic growth would make up for the rising cost of programs like Medicaid. But that is no longer the case. We have stopped growing and Albany has to accept reality and responsibility for the burden they are placing on county governments throughout the state.
 Nassau County is a good example. Like most of New York State, we have stopped growing. The county's population is the same today as it was in the 1960's. Its property tax base is the same as it was in the early 1990's. Costs are rising, but revenues are not.
 Nassau County has three primary sources of revenue: property taxes, sales taxes, and state and federal aid. State and federal aid have been declining since the 1980's. Sales tax revenues rise and fall with economic cycles; this year in Nassau, they are predicted to produce about $20 million in new revenue. Property tax revenues go up one of two ways: by raising taxes, which people are sick of, or by building new businesses or homes. But we are not growing.
 So cut spending, you say. We have. In Nassau we have reduced our public work force to the smallest it has been in 30 years, a reduction of 11 percent. We have eliminated $100 million in waste, fraud and abuse. We have negotiated the best union contracts in decades, including givebacks and productivity enhancements. And we are borrowing less than half the money that the county used to borrow.
 But even with these improvements, we can't keep up with rising costs. With only $20 million in new revenue from sales taxes, Nassau's Medicaid costs are going up by $50 million, state-mandated pension costs are going up by $50 million and health insurance is going up by $20 million. The result is local government taxes that are out of line with the nation, undermining the competitiveness of our local economies.
 For New York's counties, addressing this problem is not a matter of choice, but of necessity. And the solution will be a political one and a bipartisan one, for this crisis affects all county executives, regardless of political party.
 The fundamental problem is that state government in Albany has, through bipartisan collusion in designing its legislative districts, ensured that the leadership and membership of the State Legislature rarely change, regardless of what they do to us.
 For more than 30 years, the Republicans have controlled the Senate, the Democrats the Assembly, and rarely is a member of either body voted out of office. In the past 22 years there have been nearly 2,300 re-election campaigns for the State Legislature. In that time only 30 incumbents have been defeated. 
 As a result, state legislators feel free to impose whatever financial burden they want on the electorate, because they think that the electorate can't hurt them. And history suggests that they are right.
 But they have gone too far. Local property taxes are 72 percent above the national average. The only option now is to replace some of those legislators, to send a message to Albany. I hope you will join me at the polls this coming November. Say no to Albany politics and yes to lower local taxes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (91%); COUNTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICAID (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); SALES TAX (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); MAYORS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); ACUTE CARE (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



513 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 3; CITY LORE

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Put Down That Violin. Now.

BYLINE: By THOMAS BOYLE. 
Thomas Boyle, a professor of English at Brooklyn College, is the author of several crime novels set in Brooklyn.

 BODY:
OUT here in Brooklyn, we hear that New Jersey's Nets are coming. This could be great news, but at the same time it brings back the bitter memory of the nasty departure of our baseball Dodgers in 1957. And just over a week ago, Gage & Tollner, our oldest restaurant and most charming culinary relic of the dear departed 19th century (sorry about that, Peter Luger), closed its doors, bringing to many residents, and former denizens, of Kings County yet another tear-stained loss of a classic past. In my household, such emotions don't always run as high as they might: here is the response of one of the younger members of the family: ''Gag! That good-old-days stuff is so over. Especially in Brooklyn.''
 Pretty cold, eh? And a bit hurtful to someone like me. I like to make a pretense of skeptical rationalism but must admit that I felt a secret tickle when it became likely that a real major-league sports team would extract sweet revenge for the loss of the Dodgers; not to mention a pang of remorse to realize that the prospect of visiting a gaslit restaurant a couple of subway stops away from my house was, well, over. 
 This despite the fact that although I've worked in Brooklyn since 1969 and lived here for most of those years, I haven't forgotten that I was still a high school kid in Pennsylvania rooting for the Phillies against the Dodgers when that not always distinguished team (aka Dem Bums) still occupied Ebbets Field, or was it ''Wait-Till-Next-Year'' Shrine? And the gaslit seafood palace in question (along with the Fulton Street shopping district it occupied) had been flying well below my personal consumer radar for decades. 
 I raised the issue with Martha Nadell, a colleague who recently taught a course called ''Brooklyn in Literature.'' One of the striking discoveries she made in preparing the reading list was just how thoroughly the books were shot through with nostalgia. Was it knee-jerk nostalgia? ''Depends on the writer,'' she said, ''but you can bet it's out there, in literature and life. Especially life. I'm from Brooklyn, but I of course meet the newcomers every day, and it seems for a lot of them it takes about 24 hours to acquire this sort of patina of enhanced memory.''
 This struck close to home. In spite of sympathy for my neighbors across Flatbush Avenue in Prospect Heights who may lose homes and jobs if the Nets build their arena, I still can't erase from my mind the stirring echoes of certain faces and names -- Pee Wee, Jackie, Duke, Campy -- or my enduring romance with local Victoriana. Am I afflicted with enhanced memory syndrome, too? Are we just still suffering the hangover from that old outer borough inferiority complex, grasping at mythical straws from the past to shore us up against Manhattan's perceived superiority?
 To this last question, the answer seems a simple negative. Cabbies no longer hesitate to bring us back across the bridges after a night in what, regrettably, many of us still call ''the city.'' Dozens of fine new restaurants can be found only blocks from Gage & Tollner. Even Miranda of ''Sex and the City'' and Grace of ''Will and Grace'' have made their fictional crossings of the East River to join us in domestic bliss (though not without the requisite, and finally obsolete, outer borough jokes). Economic and cultural revivals in place in the brownstone neighborhoods are spilling over into corners of our borough not dreamt of as cozy or cutting-edge, at least for the past century. 
 Brooklyn suffers the usual urban problems of crime, poverty, bad housing and racial inequality. But statistics show that things are getting better. Bed-Stuy, with its beautiful architecture, is undergoing restoration. Once-devastated neighborhoods like Bushwick are on the verge of rebirth. Places like Brownsville and East New York are seeing their vacant, refuse-strewn lots and burned-out buildings filled in with affordable housing and decent stores.
 Which brings us back to the nostalgia for the good old days. Why is it so pervasive here, so much so that we embrace even the dimmest and least reliable memories? Believe me, the old saw that one in seven American families passed through here in pursuit of streets paved with gold doesn't wash as a reason for schmaltzy retrospection. Even those writers who choose to dwell on the pleasures of their Brooklyn youth seem ultimately to subvert what at first glance appears to be a misty-eyed dream.
 PETE HAMILL, writing in New York magazine in 1969, conjured up a Park Slope past as ''something special, almost private'' that was about to disappear with the loss of The Eagle, the jobs at the Navy Yard and, of course, the Dodgers. But 25 years later, in ''A Drinking Life,'' he made sure the reader got a frightening sense of those gang-ridden 50's streets: ''The codes demanded that all loyalty go to the gang, ahead of the family, church, city, or country. Everybody had to drink hard and fight to the death; the women had to 'put out' for the men.'' 
 Jonathan Lethem's recent novel ''The Fortress of Solitude'' deals with danger and racial strife from the perspective of the child of one of the first ''new'' families in Boerum Hill and Cobble Hill in the late 60's and the 70's. In ''Bailey's Cafe,'' the Brooklyn College grad Gloria Naylor seems ambivalent: ''I grew up in Flatbush believing that Brooklyn was the capital of the world and that all colored people except my family were rich.'' 
 The photographer Weegee said about certain good old days in Brooklyn: ''Looking back on the years of Murder Inc., I find I used up 10 press cameras, five cars, and every night 20 cigars and 20 cups of coffee. For me crime had paid, in a very lush way.'' And his famous photograph of Coney Island, taken July 28, 1940, at 4 p.m.; do these millions of close-packed revelers suggest a paean to community or induce a nightmare of sweaty claustrophobia? Take your pick.
 Brooklyn is a place where change is dramatic, constant, often sudden. Coney Island Avenue can change within a block or a year from Irish to Polish to Mexican to Pakistani to Orthodox Jewish. How can one pin down a thought, a moment, a generation, without resorting to a little polishing of the veneer of the past? 
 I guess the more we know, the less we know. I think, finally, of Thomas Wolfe's 1935 story ''Only the Dead Know Brooklyn,'' a title I once borrowed for a book of my own. Wolfe's narrator, a man with one of the ''dese, dem and dose'' accents that barely survive today, encounters a stranger with a map on a subway train headed for New Utrecht Avenue, Borough Park and Bensonhurst. The stranger says he is lost because he wants to go to Red Hook. Why would anyone want to go to Red Hook, the narrator asks in disbelief. Because, the stranger says, I'm trying to get to know Brooklyn. The narrator scoffs that nobody can get to know Brooklyn with a map; he's been living here all his life and he can't get to know it. Indeed, he finally says, to get to know Brooklyn, you'd have to be so old you'd be dead.
 Thus, Wolfe's title. Thus, the patina of enhanced memory. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Is it ''Only the dead know Brooklyn'' or ''Brooklyn knows only the dead''? Gage & Tollner, above, has joined the Dodgers as one of the borough's dear departed. (Photo by Associated Press)
 (Photo by The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); BASEBALL (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); FAMILY (75%); CLOSINGS (72%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%); WRITERS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



514 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: As More Jobs Move Overseas

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Political Timing, Outsourced'' (editorial, Feb. 17):
 You say shifting call center jobs and other presumably higher-end professions of the information age to, say, India, is ''freeing up American capital, labor and other resources for more efficient, high-value uses.'' 
 So an American company saves X dollars on its labor costs and uses those savings -- for what? New investments overseas? Higher benefits for its executives? Greater profits for its stockholders? 
 So an American worker laid off to produce those savings uses his newly bestowed free time -- for what? Getting a Ph.D. in molecular biology? Becoming one of those high-paid, ever-lower-taxed executives himself? Working at Wal-Mart for minimum pay and minimum benefits?
 The new economic pyramid: all top and no bottom.

J. PETER FLEMMING
Brooklyn, Feb. 17, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); LAYOFFS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (72%); CALL CENTERS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (54%); BIOLOGY (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



515 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: As More Jobs Move Overseas

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Political Timing, Outsourced'' (editorial, Feb. 17):
 As do most economists, you continue to ignore unforeseen and dramatic changes in the world economy as you unquestioningly support the doctrine of free trade.
 You note that ''call center jobs in India'' help India and the United States. But the issue is not low-wage call center jobs. If large numbers of high-paying, high-value-added jobs like radiologists, stock analysts and computer programmers continue to leave America because 100 million well-educated, highly motivated and broadband-connected Indian and Chinese workers will take them at a much lower price over the next decade, what jobs will grow in America?
 While the answer to this dilemma is certainly not the old protectionist nostrums, the paradigm change in how the world trades goods demands a new look.

CHARLES E. SCHUMER
U.S. Senator from New York
Washington, Feb. 17, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); PROTECTIONISM (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); JOB CREATION (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (71%); CALL CENTERS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



516 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: As More Jobs Move Overseas

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 In ''Many New Causes for Old Problem of Jobs Lost Abroad'' (news article, Feb. 15), you say that ''statistics on the current job flight are estimates.''
 No one -- economists, labor leaders or politicians -- has hard data on how outsourcing of high tech-high education jobs affects our society, let alone our economy. We have relied on private surveys, political pontifications and guessing.
 America needs a structure to monitor the trade of labor just as we have a structure to monitor the trade of goods. Without this knowledge, our political leaders risk making decisions based on economic theory that may no longer be relevant.

RAGHAV VAJJHALA
Columbia, Md., Feb. 15, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



517 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 5; IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: L.I.R.R. and Long Island Bus Report Ridership Declines

BYLINE: By Stewart Ain

 BODY:
The Long Island Rail Road and Long Island Bus experienced drops in riders last year. The declines were attributed to a 25 percent fare increase and a slumping economy, as well as security concerns and poor weather that cut down on pleasure trips.
 James Dermody, president of the railroad, said the loss of 3 million riders, or 3.6 percent, in 2003 was anticipated after the May 1 fare increase. 
 ''We know that whenever there is a fare increase, we lose riders,'' he said. ''But within a year to 18 months, we get a lot of them back.''
 It was the second straight year that ridership had declined, dropping from 85.6 million riders in 2001 to 83.9 million in 2002 and 80.9 million last year.
 In addition to the fare increase, Mr. Dermody said, the economic slump in New York City had also hurt ridership.
 ''A lot of our customers work in the insurance, financial and real estate areas and they were hard hit by the economy,'' he said.
 But because of the fare increase, the railroad's revenue increased 11.9 percent last year. 
 Mr. Dermody said that there were signs of an improving economy and that the railroad projects 1.8 million more riders this year. He said that with additional funds, he plans to add one evening and one morning train on the Ronkonkoma line by the fall.
 Neil Yellin, president of Long Island Bus, said the 2.4 percent dip in ridership his system experienced last year was the first decline since 1995. He said there were 30.7 million riders in 2002 compared with 30 million last year. But he also noted that the 2002 figure was a 30-year high.
 ''With the bar so high, I don't think this was a tremendous drop,'' he said. ''It was more of an adjustment in response to other factors.''
 At the same time, Mr. Yellin noted, there was a 7.8 percent increase in use of the Able-Ride paratransit system, a door-to-door minibus service for eligible disabled riders.
 Stewart Ain


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); SPECIAL NEEDS TRANSPORTATION (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



518 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2; WORTH NOTING

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Wife, Very Much Alive, May Come Home From Iraq

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

 BODY:
Edward Valentin's wife has applied to come home from Iraq. For him, that may or may not be a good thing.
 Mr. Valentin spent two days in jail last week after police charged him with falsely reporting his wife's death, making a false statement and making harassing phone calls. For Mr. Valentin and his neighbors, the arrest culminated a week of emotional twists and turns that began Feb. 11. 
 Until it completely unraveled, Mr. Valentin's story was heartbreaking. The unemployed Waterbury resident whose wife, Betsy, is an Army reservist stationed in Iraq, has raised three children by himself for the past year. On Feb. 11, shortly after 4 p.m., he got an ''official-sounding call'' from a man who identified himself as a lieutenant colonel and had devastating news, Mr. Valentin later told police. The man said Betsy had been killed in a firebombing in Baghdad.
 Thus began a strange saga that by Sunday had landed Mr. Valentin in jail. On the way, the sympathy of his neighbors turned to anger and confusion. Though Mr. Valentin may have been under great stress, waiting for his wife to come home, his actions were inexcusable, neighbors said.
 ''It's just crazy,'' said his next-door neighbor David Rivera. ''He has to wait just like everyone else.''
 Though police suspected Mr. Valentin falsely reported his wife's death to woo another woman who had said she wouldn't date a married man, Mr. Valentin and his family disputed that. Mr. Valentin told police that he thought the incident would generate enough attention so that the Army would send his wife back to him.
 It might have worked. Calling from Iraq early last week, Sergeant Valentin told a Waterbury police officer that she applied for a leave of absence from the Army to come home and see her family.
 ''I didn't have the sense that she was angry,'' said Sgt. Scott Stevenson of the Waterbury Police Department, who fielded the call from Ms. Valentin. 
 ''I think she was bewildered.''
 Mr. Valentin was released on a $5,000 bond after his arraignment Tuesday. 
 His next court date is March 2.
 AVI SALZMAN


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); POLICE FORCES (77%); ARRESTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (77%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); BAIL (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (57%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004



519 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Backing Stew Leonard's Over Republic Airport

 BODY:
Re ''State May Claim Part of Stew Leonard's Site'' [Feb. 15]: For some time Stew Leonard's has been trying to get the ball rolling with their building plans on the corner of Route 110 and Conklin Avenue in East Farmingdale. We have heard complaints from all sorts of aviation officials who do not want Stew Leonard's to build. 
 Challenges by Republic Airport have failed, so now they claim New York State owns the Stew Leonard's site, not Fairchild.
 Stew Leonard's will hire some 600 employees, create hundreds of jobs for the local construction unions and is not asking for any type of tax deferment. It will pump millions of dollars into the economy.
 Stew Leonard's also has an excellent reputation as being supportive of the community in which they do business, unlike its adversary, Republic Airport.
 The aviation Goliath wants to dictate how we as a community must live. Stew Leonard's wants to work with us. I think it is about time we the people speak up.
 Shorten the Republic Airport runway that faces the residential areas and tell them we want Stew Leonard's.

Kevin R. Norton
East Farmingdale

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CIVIL AVIATION (71%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (71%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); JOB CREATION (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: STEW LEONARD'S LLC (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (90%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



520 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1; The Nation: The Dean Comet

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: So What Was That All About?

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
IN early December 2002, Howard Dean sat for an interview about his long-shot presidential campaign in the first no-cost place that came to mind: the lobby of the Waldorf-Astoria in Manhattan. Not a soul noticed, not even when a reporter held a table lamp into the candidate's face so he could be photographed in better light.
 Just a few miraculous months later, Dr. Dean streaked across the political landscape like a comet, transforming everything about this year's presidential race, from the suddenly tougher tone of the Democrats' attacks on President Bush to John Kerry's decision to forsake public financing. Even now, many supporters say his impact was huge. ''There's not a one of us who doesn't feel like the world has changed because of what you've done,'' Zephyr Teachout, who was director of Internet organizing for Dr. Dean, assured supporters after he dropped out last week. ''Possibility has changed, and politics have changed forever.''
 Have they? 
 In the beginning and at the end, the supposedly smart money in American politics missed much about Dr. Dean, from his stunning early potential to the accumulating missteps that started to spell his doom just as some of the biggest names in politics endorsed him. Odds are good that some early post-mortems predicting his lasting impact may be similarly shortsighted. 
 Dr. Dean and his campaign manager, Joe Trippi, raised $41 million last year, much of it in small contributions through the young medium of the Internet. But they spent almost all of it on old media: direct mail and television, the medium that John F. Kennedy used to transform politics 44 years ago. 
 ''He's going to be a milestone in the history of the Internet, but there's just no way of knowing how much farther we have to go,'' said Michael Cornfield, director of the Institute for Politics, Democracy and the Internet at George Washington University. ''We can look at what he didn't do: he never got on his own blog. We have yet to see the J.F.K. of the Internet. It's going to be someone like Bob Graham, a compulsive diarist, who's going to be able to command a blog with a distinctive voice, either through a Cyrano staffer or himself.''
 Like Eugene J. McCarthy and George S. McGovern before him, Dr. Dean inspired a new generation of young volunteers, but their orange hats and intensity may have repelled as many voters as they energized. 
 ''The Dean legacy is that he taught people how to use the social networking piece of the Internet, and that's permanent and lasting,'' said Lee Rainie, director of the Pew Internet and American Life Project, a research group. ''But it's not yet clear that younger people will get more involved in politics. It might be that we're seeing the beginning of a re-engagement of young people with politics that these new tools are particularly attractive to. There's hope for that, but there's more hope than evidence so far.''
 And unlike some other famous losers before him, Dr. Dean lacked a broad public policy agenda that was sharply different from most of his rivals'. He was for expanded health care, smaller tax cuts and a humbler foreign policy, but so, more or less, were they. Under pressure to deliver an alternative economic plan of his own, he talked of a cut in payroll taxes, but dropped out before he had time to unveil it. In the end, his message was strong and sharp, but more strategic than substantive.
 ''If you think of the things we're proudest of as Americans -- Social Security, women's rights, these were all achieved by people who are written out of history, or remembered but in a foggy way,'' said Tom Hayden, the 1960's student radical and former California state senator. ''I'm old enough to have actually met Norman Thomas, and he once told me how someone had come up to him in the 40's or 50's and said, 'Well, you should be proud: The New Deal carried out your Socialist Party agenda,' and he said, 'Yeah, the New Deal carried out our program in a coffin.'''
 By contrast, Mr. Hayden noted that Dr. Dean ''never got a chance to completely enunciate a positive message.'' The message, Mr. Hayden said, ''was against Washington, against the war in Iraq, and so on.'' He added: ''If Dr. Dean ponders a little more what he really wants, he could probably get it in the Democratic platform. But that's just paper. It'll have to be enforceable as things that need to be embraced by the Democratic Party if they expect the Howard Dean constituency to come through. He needs to be organized in the swing states. He needs, in a polite way, to make himself absolutely necessary to the outcome in November.''
 History suggests that may not be so easy. Dr. Dean has ruled out a third-party candidacy, the usual route to influence for outsiders, from Ross Perot to Ralph Nader. After Senator John McCain of Arizona saw his presidential hopes collapse four years ago, he fought hard to support like-minded Congressional candidates, but even some of those who won failed to stand with him in his effort to overhaul campaign finance laws.
 The Democrats' shattering divisions in 1968 led to reforms in both major parties that emphasized grass-roots power over party insiders and paved the way for Mr. McGovern's nomination in 1972. In 1976, Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan both surged to prominence as outsiders, and four years later, Mr. Reagan and his conservative backers took over the Republican Party with effects that remain obvious today. 
 But those three candidates were riding historical forces -- opposition to a years-old, stalemated war; the corruption of Watergate, and the sense that liberals had forsaken middle-class America -- that, at least in hindsight, seem more powerful than the anti-Bush backlash that propelled Dr. Dean. 
 In 1992, Bill Clinton began his run as the first Democrat to serve two full terms since Franklin D. Roosevelt by dragging his party toward the center -- an impulse that Dr. Dean largely shared as governor of Vermont, then partly rejected in the face of the partisan polarization that followed the 2000 presidential recount. There is reason to believe that Dr. Dean's clear power to press his party to the left this year might turn out to be similarly transitory, rather than transformative.
 In an interview last week, Mr. Trippi, who was replaced as campaign manager last month, maintained that the power of incumbency, the party establishment and money remain stacked so strongly against insurgents that Dr. Dean's ability to rise as far as he did will stand as a model to follow. ''History will look back on this and say that it was a dot-com miracle,'' Mr. Trippi said, ''not that our candidate was a dot-com bust.'' 
 Cass R. Sunstein, author of ''Republic.com,'' a study of the social impact of the Internet, agreed, in part. ''One thing that might be exploited,'' he said, ''is that if you get like-minded people in constant touch with each other, then they get more energized and more committed, and more outraged and more extreme. The intensity of Dean's support came less from his own personal efforts than from the fact that Dean supporters were in pretty constant touch with each other, whereas geography would normally isolate them and spread them out.''
 He likened the Dean movement to other intense followings that have flared and faded. ''You can create a cult,'' he said, ''but long-term political change requires more than that.'' Still, he added, ''I'm sure we'll see someone, another version of Dean, who uses the same strategy, but is successful.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 29, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday assessing the legacy of Howard Dean's presidential campaign misstated the title of Michael Cornfield, an executive at the Institute for Politics, Democracy and the Internet at George Washington University who described Dr. Dean's effort as a milestone in the history of the Internet. He is the institute's director of research, not its director. 

GRAPHIC: Photos (pg. 1
 pg. 3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (88%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SOCIAL MEDIA (73%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (73%); VOLUNTEERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



521 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4; The World: Exports? What Exports?

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Focus: Old Jobs, Not a New Economy

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
AS a site for one of his conversations on the future of the economy the other day, President Bush chose a Florida factory that is not exactly on high-tech's leading edge: it makes aluminum-encased windows for new houses. And when Senator John Kerry accepted the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s endorsement on Thursday, he swore again to take on ''every Benedict Arnold executive'' who ships jobs abroad -- without a hint that during the boom of the 1990's, a Democratic president embraced the opportunities of globalization.
 Back then, the Clinton administration argued that the movement of jobs is inevitable, and that government's role is not to protect dying industries, but to help workers graduate to higher-tech, better-paying jobs. 
 In short, both Democrats and Republicans, while highlighting the economy as a critical issue in this election, seem sometimes to be describing an economy that hasn't existed in the United States in years. 
 It is almost as if the 1990's never happened, and that the forces of globalization have been suspended. 
 Perhaps it is just a symptom of the odd confluence of the election cycle and an uncertain economic cycle. Bill Clinton did not fully embrace Nafta -- or the idea of trading a nation's way to prosperity -- until after he was elected in 1992, and many Democrats never came with him. Anyway, it is much easier to talk about capitalizing on global forces in times of boom than in a bust that followed. 
 Moreover, neither Mr. Bush nor his Democratic rivals seem to want to remind anyone of the commanding global position that the technology boom created for America; to do so is to invite discussion of what happened when the party was over.
 But the result is that all the candidates are avoiding discussing a basic reality: that economic interdependence has hardly gone away. 
 With a record deficit, in fact, the United States is more dependent than ever on Asia's central banks to lend it money. With the dollar remarkably low, candidates might be talking about exports; instead, they are convinced that voters want to hear only about preserving jobs, not learning new skills.
 Consider China, the bogey-nation of this election. In 1994, as the American economy recovered, an emerging China was being called the biggest of the ''Big Emerging Markets,'' and it was at the center of a relentless effort in Washington to focus American business on exports. Arguably, that paid off: 10 years ago American exports to China amounted to $8.7 billion; last year they were $28.4 billion, more than a threefold increase. (Exports of goods and services to the entire world rose only 58 percent.) And American carmakers, who had been blocked from real participation in China's market, are finally moving in.
 But neither Mr. Bush nor the Democrats describe China as a great opportunity for American workers. Quite the opposite. Partly that is because imports from China have increased nearly fivefold, outpacing what Americans sell there, and there is a sense on the hustings that China is stealing jobs.
 When the president's chief economic adviser, N. Gregory Mankiw, said openly that ''outsourcing'' has its advantages (all those low-cost goods Americans snap up in Wal-Mart, for example) he was shouted down by both Democrats and Republicans and forced to issue a retraction.
 ''What's missing now is this sense we had in the 1990's that American companies had become ultracompetitive,'' said Jeffrey Garten, the Clinton emerging-market strategist and now dean of the Yale School of Management. ''But it's more than that: politically, both sides are pandering to voters who feel more insecure, and both sides feel that extolling America as an exporter is incredibly unsexy as an election strategy.''
 Something else has changed as well since the 90's: those now being displaced are not just manufacturing workers. Senator John Edwards last week recounted how his wife found herself talking to a technician in India when she tried to fix her cable television service. The story was meant to tap a new anxiety -- among white-collar workers afraid their jobs will go to Bangalore.
 ''It's a different issue,'' said Charlene Barshefsky, who was President Clinton's United States trade representative, ''and it makes it dangerous for any candidate to publicly talk about the benefits of free trade.''
 So it was no accident that on Friday Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, who never has to worry about running for office, stepped in to remind the candidates of a few things. ''Keeping the current period in context is instructive,'' he said in a speech in Omaha. ''Jobs in the United States were perceived as migrating to low-wage Japan in the 1950's and the 1960's, to low-wage Mexico in the 1990's and most recently to low-wage China. Japan, of course, is no longer characterized by a low-wage work force, and many in Mexico are now complaining of job losses to low-wage China.'' 
 He was making the obvious point that economies evolve. The political trick is to manage that process by stressing the new opportunities that arise. 
 But new opportunities are hardly the campaign staple today. Like the Democrats' criticisms of trade agreements, President Bush's conversations are as fascinating for what they omit as for what they focus on -- his tax cuts. Mr. Bush has been in Silicon Valley only once recently -- to visit a company that produces tanks, not software. 
 Mr. Bush's aides say he will continue to conduct his conversations at small businesses because they are where the job growth is. And Democrats who once taught at the Clinton school of globalization also say that times have changed.
 ''We need to be talking about wage insurance,'' said Mickey Kantor, the former commerce secretary. ''We need to admit that everyone -- Democrats and Republicans -- have done a poor job of enforcing the provisions of trade agreements.''
 But Mr. Kantor, at least, is unhappy when candidates leave it at that.
 ''Eventually,'' he said, ''you have to talk realistically about how you manage economic transitions.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush at a Florida window factory last week. He and his Democratic challengers want to highlight jobs
they rarely visit the cubicle workplace. (Photo by Agence France-Presse)
 (Photo by Bill Barie/Corbis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ECONOMY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); AUTOMAKERS (50%); CENTRAL BANKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (58%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



522 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-14

Global Bomb Network Seen
American forensic investigators examining how terrorists manufacture improvised explosives have found indications of a global bomb-making network, and have concluded that Islamic militant bomb builders have used the same designs for car bombs in Africa, the Middle East and Asia, government officials said. 1

No Sharing of Power in Haiti
The top American diplomat for the Western Hemisphere left Haiti without reaching a deal with the political opposition to share power with President Jean-Bertrand Aristide and end two weeks of bloodletting across the impoverished nation. 1

The violent uprisings by Haitian militants seeking to overthrow Mr. Aristide have been directed largely at the police, whose stations are often the only outposts of a weak and nearly invisible central government. 8

New Foreign Aid Policy
The United States is plunging into a fundamental overhaul of its assistance to developing nations, demanding that applicants for a rich new source of financing prove their worthiness. 1

Progress and Pitfalls in Iraq
Government agencies and private companies report notable progress in many areas 10 months into the reconstruction effort in Iraq. But they also realize that their missions are more complex than anticipated. 11

Several major secular parties in Iraq are discussing forming an alliance to campaign against the better organized Shiite religious conservatives in the event of an election. 11

War Crimes Judge is Ill
Richard May, the British judge who presides over the war crimes trial of Slobodan Milosevic, has fallen ill, adding a serious new setback to the two-year-old process, which has been plagued with difficulties from the start. 3

NATIONAL 16-24, 26

Bush's Education Pitch
Bush administration officials are finding the No Child Left Behind law a tough sell, even among Republicans. 1

Democratic Campaigns Diverge
Senator John Edwards and Senator John Kerry are pursuing different strategies as they gird for the rush of Super Tuesday contests. 18

John Kerry challenged President Bush to a debate about the Vietnam era. 18

Fortifying Washington
The nation's capital is being turned day by day into a virtual armed camp in response to the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 23

OBITUARIES 25

Humphry Osmond
A psychiatrist who coined the word ''psychedelic'' for the drugs to which he introduced the writer and essayist Aldous Huxley, he was 86. 25

NEW YORK/REGION 27-36

Giuliani's Business Grows
Rudolph W. Giuliani's consulting firm, Giuliani Partners, has earned tens of millions of dollars by assembling a broad range of clients since he left City Hall in December 2001. 1

Chess 36
Weather 37

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (92%); RELIGION (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); FORENSICS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); JUDGES (70%); WAR CRIMES (65%); EDUCATION LAW (63%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (75%); RUDY GIULIANI (75%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); HAITI (94%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ASIA (92%); AFRICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



523 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Stirrings on Fuel

 BODY:
The United Automobile Workers and the Sierra Club teamed up the other day in an Op-Ed piece for The Times blasting an administration proposal that would further weaken the already inadequate standards governing fuel economy for the nation's cars and light trucks. This odd alliance suggests that America's ravenous appetite for gasoline could become an important issue this election year, with the situation in the Middle East serving as a daily reminder of our servitude to foreign oil.
 There are other straws in the wind. John Dingell, a smart and influential Michigan congressman, recently warned the car manufacturers whose interests he has long defended that they should start making significant improvements in fuel economy before Washington forces changes upon them. Shortly thereafter came the coincidental yet revealing news that Ford and G.M. were hustling to get fuel-efficient S.U.V.'s into the showrooms to compete with the Japanese. 
 All this does not amount to a revolution; good intentions and a few fuel-efficient S.U.V.'s will not make a real dent in oil consumption or in the greenhouse gases that flow from automobile tailpipes. The tax incentives for buyers of gasoline-and-battery-powered hybrid cars contained in the pending energy bill are minuscule. And while the administration recently ordered up a small increase in fuel economy for light trucks -- including S.U.V.'s and minivans -- it has done nothing to close old loopholes, including a largely meaningless credit for ethanol-powered vehicles, that will effectively cancel the gains from the new efficiency standards.
 The issue clearly needs someone to give it a shove. John Kerry, the Democratic front-runner, ought to have an incentive to do that. In addition to his broad environmental credentials, he has (with Ernest Hollings and John McCain) proposed legislation that would raise fleetwide fuel economy to 35 miles per gallon -- a significant jump that could save millions of barrels of oil every day. Yet bold ideas have a way of disappearing in the heat of a campaign. Environmentalists recall that in 1992 Bill Clinton, prodded by Al Gore, promised to raise fuel economy to 45 miles per gallon and then backed away when President Bush's father accused him of jeopardizing millions of American jobs.
 The present occupant of the White House, who tends to frame every environmental issue in terms of jobs, is almost certain to raise the same fears. And he'll have an audience. The auto workers have not yet signed on to major increases in fuel economy standards. They just don't want Mr. Bush to go backward.
 Anyone who adopts this issue will therefore have to be creative as well as brave. There is no shortage of good ideas about how to get from here to there -- bigger tax credits for consumers who buy fuel-efficient cars, for example, as well as significant production tax credits for manufacturers to help them convert from the comfortably profitable S.U.V. world to a riskier universe of fuel-efficient hybrids. The trick will be getting these ideas onto the election-year agenda. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (75%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ALCOHOLS (72%); ETHANOL (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); TAX INCENTIVES (66%); GREENHOUSE GASES (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (84%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (77%); JOHN DINGELL (76%); JOHN MCCAIN (76%); AL GORE (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



524 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2; Page Two: Feb. 15-21

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: The Dates Marked in Red Pen At the White House

BYLINE: By Richard W. Stevenson

 BODY:
EARLY on the morning of March 5 -- and on the first Friday of each succeeding month through October -- President Bush's advisers and political strategists will pore over a fresh set of numbers, knowing that the figures hold important clues to whether Mr. Bush will remain in the White House for another four years.
 They won't be looking at polls. The statistics will be the latest on unemployment and job creation, and they will go a long way toward validating or undercutting Mr. Bush's claim to having put the economy back on track. 
 Any candidate for high office strives to set the agenda and shape the daily news cycle. But politicians are always subject to events outside their control. And this year Mr. Bush faces a series of dates that have the potential to be turning points in the campaign.
 The Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, the state's highest court, essentially ordered that the state begin granting marriage licenses to gay couples on May 17. 
 President Bush has been weighing whether to endorse a federal constitutional ban on gay marriage. But even if he acts before May 17, reacting to the establishment of same-sex marriage by Massachusetts would present a tricky challenge to President Bush as he competes for swing voters who are not aligned with either side in the culture wars. 
 On June 30, the United States plans to hand sovereignty back to Iraq. Should the handover go smoothly, it would be good for Mr. Bush. Should it leave Iraq in a state of civil unrest or worse -- and trap the American troops in the crossfire -- it could leave him more vulnerable to Democratic attacks over the war.
 There are other big dates ahead. On July 27, the commission investigating the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks is scheduled to release its report -- right in the middle of the Democratic convention. 
 So while it might seem at times that the campaign is unfolding according to a master plan written by Karl Rove or his Democratic counterparts, even they are slaves to the calendar. Richard W. Stevenson


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gay marriages, on the calendar. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); MARRIAGE LAW (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); TERRORISM (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



525 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8; BULLETIN BOARD

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Spending Habits of the Rich and Even Richer

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING

 BODY:
Forget that nagging doctor's bill, push that mortgage statement to a dusty corner of your desk and, for a moment, wallow in thoughts of the rich -- you know, the ones who are different from bill-juggling mortals.
 There's rich, though, and there's rich. What, Elite Traveler magazine wondered in a survey, is the ''acceleration point'' where spending takes off? Well, people with a few million, it turns out, are fairly frugal: a trifling 6 percent own at least two $1 million residences -- but even those worth $5 million live like relative misers, rarely belonging to more than one golf club. 
 But $10 million? Now you see serious spending. Do they even know how much? Well, 88 percent don't even pay their own bills. HUBERT B. HERRING

Charts:

How the wealthy and the very wealthy live

Plan to spend over $20,000 within the next year on personal apparel
NET WORTH (MILLIONS)
$1-$5: 11%
$5-$10: 28%
$10+: 84%

Belong to two or more golf clubs
NET WORTH (MILLIONS)
$1-$5: 1%
$5-$10: 10%
$10+: 47%

Own more than one residence valued at $1 million or more
NET WORTH (MILLIONS)
$1-$5: 6%
$5-$10: 23%
$10+: 70%

RETAIL SALES
Graph tracks weekly year-over-year change (REDBOOK AVERAGE) from August 2003 to February 2004.

NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS
Graph tracks weekly year-over-year change from August 2003 to February 2004.

HOUSING PRICES
Graph tracks change in Consumer Price Index from February 2003 to January 2004.

PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY FILINGS
Graph tracks weekly totals in thousands from August 2003 to February 2004.

ONLINE SALES
Graph tracks weekly dollars in billions from August 2003 to February 2004.

HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATES
Graph tracks daily four-week moving average for Los Angeles, Chicago and New York from August 2003 through Feb. 14, 2004.

(Sources by Elite Traveler, Prince Associates [wealth survey]; Redbook Research [retail sales]; Economy.com [mortgage applications]; Bureau of Labor Statistics [housing prices]; Lundquist Consulting [bankruptcies]; comScore Networks [online sales]; Smith Travel Research [hotel occupancy])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); RETAIL SALES (86%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (75%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (75%); GOLF (74%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); STATISTICS (70%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); HOME PRICES (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%) Millionaires and Billionaires; Research; Housing ; Golf

ORGANIZATION: Elite Traveler (Magazine)

PERSON: Hubert B Herring

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



526 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1727 words

HEADLINE: Vaulting To No. 1, A Truism At a Time

BYLINE: By HUGO LINDGREN

 BODY:
ON a recent Saturday morning, David Bach ate what he considers a debtor's breakfast, and it gnawed at him all day. This was the problem: the Ritz-Carlton had charged him $6 for a muffin. ''Six dollars!'' Mr. Bach said, in a tone that was equal parts bemusement and outrage. ''It tasted perfectly fine, but what muffin is worth that?'' 
 Mr. Bach, who has had as many as four books simultaneously on business best-seller lists -- including ''The Automatic Millionaire'' at No. 1 -- can afford to pay a lot more for his muffin. But the consumption of petty luxuries is a habit he is trying to help his readers break, and he intends to lead by example. 
 The tenets of his philosophy are not new. In an updated variant of ''a penny saved is a penny earned,'' he advises people to be cautious about their finances. Everybody should divert at least 10 percent of income to retirement accounts, and it should be deducted directly from paychecks -- hence the term ''automatic.'' Everybody should buy a house and pay off the mortgage ahead of schedule. Everybody should cut back on mindless, chronic purchases -- he has coined the term ''latte factor'' -- sock the money away and take advantage of the ''miracle'' of compounded interest. 
 There have been many, many books on this general theme over the years, and Mr. Bach does not offer any market-roiling innovations. But armed with a clear message, he has mastered the mechanics of popularity. He trains and oversees a huge network of seminar-givers, who spread his ideas and sell his books. He offers an array of products, including tapes, CD's, workbooks and reference guides. He is constantly on television, including an appearance last month on the ''The Oprah Winfrey Show,'' the purest gold in the publishing business. 
 His success also speaks volumes about the changing market for business books. Best-selling celebrity chief executives have become few and far between, and books about the latest corporate scandal or botched megamerger have flopped. But simple instructional books like the ones Mr. Bach churns out are flying off the shelves, a trend that has accelerated in recent years. 
 Not everybody is impressed. ''The stuff is so obvious -- anybody could say it,'' said Austan Goolsbee, an economics professor at the University of Chicago. ''They all pretend there's a secret, but the secret is that there's no secret.''
 Even so, Mr. Bach and his ilk have tapped into a basic need that seems to run deep in the culture: the need for reassurance. The problem is not you, he counsels. The problem is a system that preys on your worst instincts, and he is here to help you defend yourself. 
 Mr. Bach is 37, and he credits his grandmother, who sold wigs for the Gimbel's department store in Milwaukee, with teaching him how to invest. With her guidance, he made his first stock purchase at the age of 7. It was McDonald's. Two years later, he bought Disney, and by the age of 12, he was offering his friends' parents unsolicited advice about the attractiveness of triple-A municipal bonds. ''I was a geek,'' he said. 
 HIS father and sister are also financial planners, and the three of them eventually set up their own unit inside Morgan Stanley, near San Francisco. Among the things Mr. Bach learned about his clients was that couples often did not communicate about their finances, and that after the husbands died, their widows did not know even the most basic things about managing money. So after conducting many seminars especially for women, he published a book in 1999 called ''Smart Women Finish Rich.'' Two years later, he followed up with ''Smart Couples Finish Rich.'' 
 These books sold briskly, and Mr. Bach found himself flying regularly to New York to make five-minute television appearances on programs like ''The View'' on ABC. It was an inconvenient way to live, but he found the work edifying to a degree that his day job was not. He believed that he was helping ordinary people take control of their lives, he said. 
 Finally, Mr. Bach had an epiphany of sorts. ''I was sitting in a room with a client who had $6 million, and we were trying to figure out how they could get their dividend checks in Europe,'' he said. ''And it hit me: Was God going to be proud of me when I reached the Pearly Gates if I spent the rest of my life helping a smaller and smaller group of richer and richer people?'' 
 With his wife, who is also a financial planner, Mr. Bach moved to New York City in 2001 to become a full-time writer and to be near all the television studios. They bought an apartment in TriBeCa, and Mr. Bach opened an office at the TriBeCa Film Center. ''In this country, you have to buy your freedom, and that's what I've been able to do,'' he said.
 Living and working in a neighborhood where a $6 muffin might be considered a bargain, he set about writing ''The Automatic Millionaire.'' As he did so, the market for business books was shifting in his favor. Ever since Andrew Tobias published ''The Only Investment Guide You'll Ever Need,'' in 1978, financial self-help books have been near the top of many best-seller lists. But over the years, there has often been strong competition from other types of business books, like biographies and management guides. 
 More recently, however, self-help has emerged as one of the only consistently vital genres on the business best-seller list. ''When we buy business books over here, we look for prescriptive advice,'' said Rick Wolff, an executive editor at Warner Books, which has recently published titles like ''The Lazy Person's Guide to Investing.'' ''It's what you can count on, as much as you can count on anything.'' 
 Publishers are particularly interested in books intended for people who know almost nothing about money. Even a word like ''investing'' in a title can scare away potential readers. Adrian Zackheim, the publisher of the Portfolio and Sentinel imprints at the Penguin Group, said that ''a lot of the more traditional business books, like about management, offer a more complicated promise that isn't going to immediately appeal to a huge number of people the way these self-help books do.''
 Indeed, John F. Welch Jr., the former General Electric chairman who received a $7.1 million advance for his 2001 autobiography, is moving into the realm of practical advice with his next book, ''Winning,'' to be written with his fiancee, Suzy Wetlaufer. But passing Mr. Bach on the best-seller list may be tough even for the iconic Mr. Welch. 
 The prevailing notion of ''The Automatic Millionaire'' is that you cannot even trust yourself. Putting yourself on a budget, Mr. Bach states emphatically at every opportunity, doesn't work, in the same way that diets don't work -- because people are forever tempted to cheat. That is why you need to have the money deducted automatically from your salary, the way the federal government started requiring employers to withhold taxes from paychecks in the 1940's. 
 Mr. Bach also advocates buying a house, and he does not fear a real estate bubble. ''There has never been a national housing bubble,'' he said. ''You cannot become rich as a renter. It's that simple.'' 
 But what defines rich? On ''Oprah,'' Mr. Bach performed a series of financial makeovers. After reviewing the spending of several people who lived paycheck to paycheck and were slipping into debt, he showed them how trimming as little as $10 a day from their expenses could result in retirement accounts worth hundreds of thousands of dollars. All one woman had to do was cut her trips to the masseuse and the manicurist in half, and she would have $282,000 when she retired. 
 To ensure that the enormousness of that sum was fully appreciated by the audience, Ms. Winfrey walked over to a table and pulled a sheet off it, revealing the full amount in cash. 
 ''That's real money,'' Mr. Bach said, as the crowd oohed and aahed. 
 A few moments later, shown with a couple who had enormous debts, Mr. Bach supervised one of the most familiar financial self-help rituals -- the cutting up of credit cards. If the enthusiasm of Ms. Winfrey's studio audience is any guide, these hoary tactics still get people's attention. 
 It was after Mr. Bach's appearance on ''Oprah'' that ''The Automatic Millionaire'' jumped to No.1 on The New York Times business best-seller list. ''Smart Women Finish Rich'' and ''Smart Couples Finish Rich'' also returned to best-seller status, as did ''The Finish Rich Workbook.'' According to his publisher, Broadway Books, there are 1.5 million copies of these four books in print. According to Nielsen BookScan, ''The Automatic Millionaire'' has sold 151,000 copies. By comparison, David Denby's well-regarded memoir of his stock market travails, ''American Sucker,'' has sold just 5,600 copies in about the same time period. 
 The challenge for Mr. Bach, editors at major business publishers say, will be maintaining his post-''Oprah'' momentum. Among the ways he is trying to do this is with a three-hour weekly radio show, broadcast by Sirius Satellite Radio and syndicated in five markets. 
 The personal rigor needed to build an audience was clear at a recent broadcast. The format is call-in, and because the show has been on the air only since last October, callers are sometimes scarce and Mr. Bach is forced to improvise. ''The first hour is the longest one,'' he said, as the program was about to begin. ''By the third hour, we're doing O.K.'' 
 Highly caffeinated, Mr. Bach stood behind a microphone in a studio and announced that the phone lines were open. The switchboard did not light up. In the earnest, exhortative style of a Little League coach, he riffed about the Martha Stewart trial and the Janet Jackson halftime incident, and repeated the phone number many times. Still nothing. Not a peep from the public. Was anyone out there listening? This was pressure that required the uncrushable spirit of a stand-up comic. 
 Mr. Bach did not wilt, and 20 minutes into the program, he got his first caller, a retired widow who wanted to make sure that the small pension her husband had left her would not be cut off. Mr. Bach asked a few questions and then was able to assure her that there was little danger that the checks would stop coming. It was a magic moment. The woman sounded relieved and grateful, Mr. Bach was giddy to have made himself useful, and the calls began to trickle in.


GRAPHIC: Photos: David Bach in the studios of Sirius Satellite Radio in Manhattan, where he does his weekly radio show. (Photo by Brian Palmer for The New York Times)
 On ''The Oprah Winfrey Show'' last month, Mr. Bach used $282,000 in cash to make a point about saving. (pg. 11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BESTSELLERS (75%); LITERATURE (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); PUBLISHING (70%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); SCANDALS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Personal Finances; Biographical Information; Books and Literature

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (55%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (50%) David Bach; Hugo Lindgren

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



527 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12; Executive Life

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Vacations Are Back, But in Smaller Sizes

BYLINE: By FRAN HAWTHORNE

 BODY:
AS a travel industry executive, Barbara Cacoulidis spends her days helping people arrange vacations. But when the tourism business shrank after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, she could not manage much time for herself.
 In 2002, she took just a week and a half of vacation. 
 But last year, she gave herself nearly three weeks, including her first-ever Christmas vacation, in the Bahamas. Ms. Cacoulidis and her extended family swam with dolphins and dined at an underwater restaurant. The men played blackjack and roulette, the women got facials and the children made pinatas at camp. 
 ''As the economy has gotten better, that eases everyone's minds,'' said Ms. Cacoulidis, now the national director for sales at Rosewood Hotels and Resorts. ''You need to take some R.&R.''
 The ups and downs of her vacation schedule could serve in one way as an economic indicator. In recent years, many executives have been reluctant to take long or expensive vacations, largely because of the lagging economy. Some did not have the cash for exotic travel; others feared that if they were not at their desks every day, there would be no desk waiting for them when they returned. 
 But as the economy has improved, more executives are stepping out of the office for real breaks. 
 ''People do feel a little more comfortable in terms of both time and money,'' said David Buda, executive vice president of the Tzell Travel Group in Manhattan, whose clients are mainly high-level managers. ''I guess they figure: 'I really deserve a vacation. I want to get back to a more normal life.''' 
 Mr. Buda says his leisure business has regained most of the ground it lost after 9/11. And in a measure of overall interest in leisure travel, the American Express Company, which polled 1,350 people in September, found that respondents planned to spend at least a third more on travel in 2004 than in 2003. 
 When Management Recruiters International, an international executive search firm based in Cleveland, surveyed 730 executives last February, 47 percent said they would not use all their vacation time in 2003, largely because of job pressures. Many said they previously took more time off. But the company president, Allen Salikof, said he expected different results in the survey this year. 
 ''I think you'll see executives really start to utilize their vacations more than in previous years,'' he said. ''We're projecting increased hiring that's going to take some of the pressure off some of the executives.'' 
 Owners of the largest companies in the Women Presidents' Organization, a national association of 625 women entrepreneurs, hold a networking session every November on a Thursday night and Friday. When 16 members gathered in New York City in 2002, only three extended their meeting into a vacation weekend. A year later, in Miami, 13 out of 16 stayed. ''It was the cash; they were doing better,'' said the group's president, Marsha Firestone.
 Some executives feel that they have gone too long without slowing down. Carolanne Gardner, the associate general counsel at the Financial Guaranty Insurance Company, a bond insurer in New York, decided last fall that two years without a break was too much. ''I felt like I hadn't seen my family in months,'' she said. She had gone to Hilton Head, S.C., for a week in 2001 and again in 2002 with her husband, Adrian Del Valle, and their two children. 
 But, she said, ''I was inside at the computer almost the whole time.'' She was so busy because the bond insurance business tends to boom when the rest of the economy is weak.
 At the end of last year, Ms. Gardner pulled herself away from the office for three weeks. But no exotic travel was involved. Except for a short trip to visit friends in Baltimore, the family stayed in New York City. ''I'm cooking, we're going to the park,'' she said, ''I'm doing the things we never do.'' 
 Executives may be willing to take more time off, but many are still cautious about where they go and how long they stay. Many are sticking to North American destinations like Mexico, Canada, Las Vegas, Orlando or Alaska. Instead of taking two weeks at a time, they often book shorter trips of three or four days each. That preference mirrors the overall trend found by the American Society of Travel Agents in a survey of 400 agents last June. 
 MS. FIRESTONE of the Women Presidents' Organization is typical. Usually, she and her husband, Monroe, take one trip overseas a year. But in 2003, they stayed on this side of the Atlantic: one week golfing in Colorado, one week at a resort in Mexico and one week at the Grand Canyon, Bryce Canyon and Zion National Park.
 ''The economy put a lot of pressure on us,'' Ms. Firestone said, ''and the Iraq war made us want to stick closer to home.''
 Because the economic picture remains fuzzy, many executives are deciding only at the last minute to take time off. Elaine Goldhill, the president of her own travel consulting firm in Manhattan, started noticing the trend just before Thanksgiving. ''People realize, 'Oh my God, it's the holidays and I don't have plans,''' she said. ''And I think because business has picked up, they could focus more on things they enjoyed doing.'' 
 Mr. Buda of Tzell Travel said that 90 percent of his clients used to make their holiday plans nearly a year in advance, but that fewer than two-thirds booked well in advance in 2003. 
 Having tasted the pleasures of leisure again, many executives may not easily give up their vacations the next time the economy sags, travel experts said. 
 Terry Espy, owner of her own construction project management company in Raleigh, N.C., revamped the business several years ago and took no big trips during that time. But last fall, as business became strong, she and her husband spent a week sailing around the British Virgin Islands with a general contractor she knows and other business associates. 
 ''We made a commitment,'' she said, ''that we're going to do this once a year or twice a year.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Barbara and George Cacoulidis and their daughter, Ariana, in the Bahamas. Ms. Cacoulidis took nearly three weeks of vacation last year. (Photo by Diane Kordas) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); WOMEN (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); TERRORISM (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (76%); FAMILY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); RESORTS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (66%); CHRISTMAS (56%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (53%) Travel and Vacations; Executives and Management

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (64%); ROSEWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS INC (56%); TRAVEL LEADERS GROUP LLC (54%); MANAGEMENT RECRUITERS INTERNATIONAL INC (52%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (64%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (64%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (54%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (54%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (52%)

PERSON: Fran Hawthorne

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) BAHAMAS (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



528 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1; HOME FRONT

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Lights, Camera, Action! (And Jobs, Too)

BYLINE: By Janny Scott. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
MOVIE and television production in New York City is a small industry with big visibility. It accounts for only a tiny percentage of all of the city's jobs. But many New Yorkers are more likely to have seen ''Law and Order'' being shot in their neighborhood than to have, say, seen the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, and movies, television shows and commercials shot in New York City propagate the Gotham mythology all around the world.
 As much as the late 1990's were a boom time for film and television production in the city, the recession that followed laid the industry low. Data from New York State suggest that as many as one in four jobs vanished, at least temporarily. Production companies closed, prop houses folded, people wandered into new careers. The percentage decline in jobs in motion picture and video production seemed at times to exceed the decline in famously hard hit industries, like clothing manufacturing and finance. 
 But while it appeared that many of the lost jobs would never return to New York, some economists predicted that film and video production jobs would be different. ''The loss of apparel jobs is probably a semipermanent feature of the landscape, whereas the loss of motion picture jobs is not,'' Marc M. Goloven, a senior regional economist for J.P. Morgan Chase, said last year. ''I think this is an industry that can awaken as quickly as it hibernated.''
 Spring is coming, and there are signs that the city's movie and television production industry is waking. The numbers kept by the city are not current, but data from 2003 suggest that the number of film, television and commercial shooting days is rising. And production company executives, cinematographers, editors and others now express something approximating hope.
 ''There's work -- not consistently, but it comes in spurts,'' said Bob Bailin, president of Feature Systems Inc., which provides equipment like lighting, generators and cable to the motion picture industry. ''Let's put it this way: Considering last year, I think we're doing better. My view, and I think from speaking to folks in the commercial end of the business, they're a lot more optimistic than last year.''
 Others are even more upbeat.
 ''I think there's clearly been a tremendous growth in production in New York,'' said Jon Kamen, chairman and chief executive of @radical.media, a 10-year-old company that produces everything from films and documentaries to television shows and commercials. ''When you hear about things being as busy, stages being booked, it's clear that things have rebounded very nicely here in New York.''
 The size of the industry is unclear. Katherine Oliver, the city's commissioner for film, theater and broadcasting, estimates that the film, television and commercial industry ''is a $5-billion-a-year business for the city, employing about 100,000 people.'' Jim Brown, a labor market analyst for the State Department of Labor, said employment in the city in the category the state defines more narrowly as motion picture and video production hit a peak of 50,000 in May 2001.
 ''It's an industry where a large part of the employment is sort of like construction -- they go from job to job,'' Mr. Brown said. ''Depending on who's shooting, you see significant moves in employment from month to month.'' He said the state data showed there were 35,500 people employed in motion picture and video production in the city at the end of 2003, up from about 33,000 in early 2003. ''It's been bobbing around but still trending upward,'' he said.
 In the late 1990's, film and television production was one of the city's fastest growing industries. ''There was no slow time,'' Mr. Bailin said. ''I saw five years of 12 months a year of constant flow of business.'' Things began slowing down in 2000. Then came Sept. 11, 2001. Television production remained relatively strong, but production of feature films and commercials dropped sharply, production union officials say.
 But in the first half of 2003, on-location shooting days for films, television and commercials rose by 36 percent over the same period in 2002, Ms. Oliver said. ''We have more work now than we certainly have had since 9/11,'' said Paul G. Moore, an assistant executive director at the Motion Picture Editors Guild. ''But I don't think we'll see the kinds of record levels of employment that we had in the 90's.'' Alan Suna, chief executive of Silvercup Studios in Long Island City, Queens, said his studio had its best year ever in 2003. ''I can't tell you what 2004 is going to bring,'' he said. ''But I think it will be a good year.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jerry Orbach and Jesse L. Martin, who play detectives on ''Law and Order,'' and a suspect played by Santo Fazio, at a shoot on West 54th Street in Manhattan on Friday. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (79%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); APPAREL MFG (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RECESSION (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); TRENDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (56%) Television; Television; Motion Pictures; Economic Conditions and Trends; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: Janny Scott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



529 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7; In the Region/Long Island

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Sales of Shopping Centers Were Strong Last Year

BYLINE: By CAROLE PAQUETTE

 BODY:
THE sale of large blocks of Long Island office and retail properties made 2003 the year of the mega-deal, real estate specialists say, adding that they expect the market to stay strong throughout 2004, especially in the retail area. 
 Low interest rates, tax incentives and the attractiveness to investors of an alternative to the stock market, along with Long Island's strong purchasing power, will continue to make shopping centers a good investment, they say. ''Shopping centers are hot today; people are buying them fully leased,'' said Leo Farrell, a partner with John P. O'Hara in Smithtown-based Corporate Realty Services. ''Investment-wise, it is good because the vacancy rate is low and the sales are robust because consumer spending keeps going.''
 Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist of the Long Island Association, said: ''I don't see a major pullback because Long Island has had several back-to-back years of heavy consumer spending, which has held up despite a national and regional economic weakness. We are a very affluent market and ideal for retailers.'' 
 The United States census showed in 2001 that almost half of Long Island households had an income of $75,000 to more than $200,000, said Dr. Kamer, who in addition to being the chief economist for the Commack-based business group is a professor of finance at Adelphi University in Garden City.
 ''I am sure the figures are higher today,'' she said. ''We have a high-income population that shows strong purchasing power. There are a lot of households with multiple incomes and a lot of professionals.'' 
 According to Bruce C. Nelson, a vice president of the investment properties group of the Woodbury office of CB Richard Ellis, the real estate services company, commercial sales for 2003 doubled on Long Island over 2002. 
 This was primarily due to the sale of large properties, which included two major shopping centers: the 421,000-square-foot Roosevelt Raceway Center in Westbury and the 400,000-square-foot Riverhead Centre. 
 In the office market, the sale of the 1.1-million-square-foot EAB Plaza office complex in Uniondale, which sold for $200 million, accounted for most of that market segment's increase.
 ''Long Island doesn't usually get this many mega-deals in one year,'' Mr. Nelson said. ''Our strong economic and demographic characteristics are driving investor interest and sales activity. Investors have followed national retailers to Long Island, buying up good-quality properties, which are generally anchored by good credit-rated tenants, including large home improvement chains and supermarkets.''
 MORE than 3 million square feet of office space sold in 2003 for $470 million, compared with 1.8 million square feet for $252 million in 2002, according to CB Richard Ellis. 
 In the retail area, seven shopping centers of approximately 100,000 square feet or more sold in 2003, totaling 1,796,497 square feet, for $321.6 million. In 2002, two major properties were sold, totaling 503,000 square feet and $42.5 million. 
 A change in the type of investor is a factor in the sale of these properties, according to H. B. Gianos, president of Manhattan-based East End Properties, which in December sold its newly built Riverhead Centre to the A.F.L.-C.I.O. Building Investment Trust, a $1.6 billion fund serving union pension plans.
 ''The world of buyers is different from those of 20 years ago,'' he said. ''For example, pension funds did not allocate as much of their assets to real estate then as they did to stocks and bonds. With many investors burned in the stock market recently, real estate has become a big beneficiary of money needing to be put to work. Combined with low interest rates and the 1031 exchange, it makes for a dynamic market.'' 
 The use of Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code is becoming a popular tool on Long Island in the purchase of commercial properties, according to Felix Tschanz, the chief underwriting counsel for Advantage Title Inc. in Huntington.
 The federal regulation defers taxes on capital gains on the sale of one property if the owner reinvests the equity in acquiring another property, or up to a total of three properties, within 180 days of closing.
 ''A lot of people are using this method, mostly with shopping centers and office buildings,'' said Mr. Tschanz, who insured the purchase and mortgage on the 250,000-square-foot Independence Plaza shopping center in Selden last year. ''Up to 25 percent of the commercial business we do use it.''
 The 12-year-old center, which includes a King Kullen supermarket, Home Depot and Old Navy clothing store, was bought in November for $52.6 million by Manhasset-based Sivan Properties, a 35-year-old family-owned real estate investment and management company.
 To buy the property under the tax-free program, Sivan sold three smaller properties -- two in Long Island and one in Maryland -- for $13.25 million. The centers, built in the 1960's, totaled 72,000 square feet.
 The purchase of the Selden center was financed through the sale of those properties, a first mortgage of $38 million and cash, according to Mr. Tschanz. ''This was a big step up for us,'' said Daniel Mermel, a principal. ''The three that were sold to buy this larger one were older and smaller.'' 
 Independence Plaza, which has 26 stores and was 99.5 percent occupied, ''was a good investment.'' Mr. Mermel added, ''It had high-quality tenants with long-term leases, and it was in a prime location on Middle Country Road, a major retail corridor in Suffolk.'' He added that there were ''strong demographics as it was in an upper middle income area with a population of more than 235,000 people within a five-mile radius and a median household income in excess of $85,000.'' 
 In December, ING Clarion Partners, a subsidiary of the ING Group, a Dutch financial company that provides real estate investment advisory and management services to pension funds and manages $12.5 billion in real estate assets for its investors, was involved in its first Long Island deals.
 The group bought the Roosevelt Raceway Center for $89 million from LNR Properties of Miami Beach on behalf of the ING Clarion Lion Properties Fund, an investment fund managed by ING Clarion Partners. It also advised the A.F.L.-C.I.O. trust in the $67.4 million purchase of the Riverhead Centre.
 ''Both properties were chosen for their excellent location and strong tenant mix,'' said Craig Tagen, senior vice president of ING Clarion Partners. 
 ''The Roosevelt Raceway Center will be a core holding for the Lion fund.'' The nine-year-old shopping center, which had been a harness racing track for nearly 50 years, has nine major tenants and is making room for another. The center will be managed by the Hutensky Group of Hartford.
 To create space for a 130,000-square-foot Home Depot, existing tenants -- Babies ''R'' Us and Michaels -- will be relocated to two of three vacant stores, according to Jeremy Isaacs, a broker at Ripco Real Estate in Jericho, which is the leasing agent.
 There had been 13 bids for the raceway property, which had an original asking price of $92 million and was on the market for less than three months, Mr. Isaacs said. 
 ABOUT 45 miles east, on Route 58, a short distance from the 150 Tanger Factory Outlet stores, is the Riverhead Centre. After years of debate between environmentalists and community members, the center was finally completed last July.
 The 17 tenants include a Borders bookstore, a Home Depot and a Waldbaum's supermarket. According to Mr. Tagen, the one vacancy, a 6,200-square-foot space, will be filled by the first Long Island branch of the New Jersey-based Hudson City Savings Bank. 
 The center will be managed by the New Jersey-based Levin Management Corporation. 
 ''It took us eight years to build and 60 days to sell,'' Mr. Gianos said. ''The center had not been for sale. We were contacted by ING looking to conclude deals for its client. They made us a good offer and our four other main partners agreed unanimously. 
 ''It was a moment in time we were not sure we'd ever see again. It's an extraordinary time to be a seller.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sylvia Mermel and her son Daniel, principals of Sivan Properties, which bought Independence Plaza last fall. (Photo by Ed Betz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (95%); RETAIL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); HOME CENTERS (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); TAX INCENTIVES (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Sales; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Shopping Centers

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (56%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%)

PERSON: Carole Paquette

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



530 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1; Commercial Property/New Jersey

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: Stores That Look Like Homes, For Very Good Reason

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
''YOU are about to be greeted by Daisy,'' says the note over the door handle. ''She is noisy but harmless.'' 
 And sure enough, crossing the threshold of the sweet Victorian at 350 Center Avenue in Westwood brings a barking innocuous dog to the door. In every other way, though, this house is not what it looks like: it is a shop, not a home, for one thing. Yet it is homey -- particularly if you're a girl, or her mother.
 Daisy & Lilly is designed to be both shop and habitat for girls ages 7 to 15, according to its proprietors, Digna Rodriguez-Poulton and Simon Poulton -- a place where girls not only buy clothes and earrings and lip gloss, but can just hang out with mothers or friends in tow and feel surrounded by ''an aura of hipness and friendliness at the same time,'' said Ms. Rodriguez-Poulton. 
 ''For our store,'' she added, ''we really wanted to find a space that was something other than 'the box.' ''
 Like other small-scale ''destination retailers'' -- shops that seek customers willing to make a trip to visit them -- the couple who run Daisy & Lilly deliberately chose an old house on a suburban side street for their store's home. They avoided the hassle of getting their idea past town planners by finding a house that was already situated in a mixed-use zone. 
 Three years ago, the couple sold their home in Ridgewood, downsized to a condo and put the proceeds toward leasing and helping to pay to rehabilitate the house on Center Avenue, which had been broken up into apartments. Working with the building's owner, Bruce Meisel, who owns considerable retail property in downtown Westwood, they turned the three-story structure into two stories, widened the side-entry staircase and installed a prominent first-floor bay window, which became Daisy's daytime perch.
 The Rodriguez-Poultons, retailers who say they have an instinctive love of storytelling, wrote a tale called ''The Legend of Daisy & Lilly'' about the creation of the store, their Jack Russell terrier who serves as its mascot (and her fictive daughter, Lilly) and the tight friendship of a group of girls who learn about fashion and have adventures at the shop. The ''legend'' is displayed on a floor-to-ceiling mural mounted just inside the door.
 Stores in houses have much stronger ''personalities,'' asserts Patti Cain, who bought a 200-year-old farmhouse at 106 Pompton Avenue in Cedar Grove to establish Gypsy Farmhouse Antiques, where she sells Amish furniture; ethnic gewgaws like mirrored scarfs from Mexico; vintage textiles; and architectural salvage pieces like cornices, lintels and fireplace mantels.
 ''I was searching for a house,'' Ms. Cain said, ''because that allows you to sell anything fun and different.'' She bought the vacant 40-by-40-foot house set on the side of a hill in 1999 and spent the better part of a year getting it into shape. The prodigious stock at the store now seems to nearly burst it at the seams -- a large Virgin Mary statue on the fireplace mantel beneath a row of crocheted potholders, shutters in the tub, Amish carved and painted doors stacked up in the kitchen -- and Ms. Cain is planning an addition.
 She would never consider decamping, Ms. Cain said. ''This house is perfect for my store,'' she said. ''I get a lot of young couples out of New York City, people who don't want the typical cookie-cutter feeling in their apartments. Because we're located in a house, they can hold a pair of shutters up to the windows to see how they look. Or they can check out how some Amish linens and embroidered pillows look on the bed in the upstairs bedroom.''
 ''People linger,'' she said. ''They get ideas, and then spend some time figuring out how to make them work, and it's a fun experience for all of us.'' In the summer, she hosts antique shows in the backyard and sells homemade lemonade and shoo-fly pies, the traditional calorie-laden Amish dessert. 
 In rural Mendham, on the other side of Morristown from a vast wooded park and rolling hills, JoEllen Rubolotta says operating her jewelry store from part of a wing of a 135-year-old rehabbed rambling house helps engender ''a following.''
 ''This is what I always wanted,'' Ms. Rubolotta said, twirling around in her 913-square-foot shop at 2 Hilltop Road, which occupies the first floor, with the former root cellar beneath and a studio apartment above. ''I wanted a store that is charming and unique.''
 Such a berth does present a few limitations. JoEllen Jewelers is not permitted to have a jeweler work on the premises, because that would present fire danger to a historic structure, Ms. Rubolotta said. The floor is so sloped in the room she uses as her office that she sometimes feels a bit off kilter just walking to the door. 
 But the windowed front room -- the panes are original -- is an ideal place to display jewelry, she said. In the interior room, Ms. Rubolotta has set chairs around the fireplace, which was painted a gaudy orange when she first saw it and is now a subdued brown. Her frog collection, including dozens of bejeweled frog pins, is displayed inside a curio table and in various niches around the hearth.
 Customers have to be buzzed in past the security door, Ms. Rubolotta noted, so it is especially important to welcome them with a cozy atmosphere, she said.
 Ms. Rubolotta said she watched workers from a local company, Grant Homes, every step of the way as they skinned the building, refashioned interior details to her specification and burrowed into the stone cellar to install a high-security alarm system.
 At Daisy & Lilly, the basement is the business office, stockroom, cafeteria (a microwave) and design center where Ms. Rodriguez-Poulton is creating ''Cute Couture,'' a new line of clothing to be marketed nationally next year. At the Gypsy Farmhouse, it is just another showroom -- but the backyard is a big attraction for customers. It is where garden furniture and accessories are displayed year-round, and it serves as a place to sit and mull over merchandise. 
 The owners of shop-houses seem to take particular pride in interior decorating. Ms. Cain painted each room in her house a different color and hung pieces from her antique textile collection in the windows along with showy Japanese obis and old prom dresses.
 At Daisy & Lilly, Ms. Rodriguez-Poulton seems to have set the paradigm for the perfect girl's bedroom. Her husband says he is asked nearly once a week for the name and number of the blue shade of Benjamin Moore paint on the walls (Aquarius blue, No. 788). The seasonal decorations, glass baubles and beads hanging on ribbons from the ceiling also sell like, well, shoo-fly pies on a summer afternoon, Mr. Poulton said.
 ''We are trying to create a lifestyle brand,'' his wife said. ''We have fashioned the store as a place where a girl's creativity is inspired and nurtured.'' The shop sells books with such titles as ''The Greatness of Girls'' and ''Girl Power'' in addition to cool clothes, and Ms. Rodriguez-Poulton runs meetings with a devoted group of customers known as the GaGa girls (Girls Academy of Good Advice) who do craft projects and talk about fashion and life.
 Teenagers only slightly older than the customers are among the shop's employees. The idea is to offer a bit of mentoring in addition to clothes that are ''stylish without overexposure,'' as Ms. Rodriguez-Poulton puts it.
 ''I think there is no better way of unleashing the girls than surrounding them with a safe, stimulating environment,'' she said. ''Everyone is well-behaved. No one spills their Coke. They don't go barreling through the shop opening every lip gloss -- which is good, because we have a lot of lip gloss.''
 Last year, the Rodriguez-Poultons tried to create a similar store for women in an old house across the street, but that fizzled within six months. ''I thought we would get all the mothers of all the daughters,'' Mr. Poulton said. ''I don't quite know why that didn't happen. What I do know is that the formula here does work.''
 Daisy & Lilly opened in the aftermath of the September 2001 attack in New York, he said, and the couple knew that all their effort and dreams might go down in the economic spiral that followed. ''But they came,'' he said. ''We had moms waiting outside the door in the morning, and we had girls appearing at the shop as soon as school let out.'' Within months, the store's mailing list swelled to 2,500.
 This winter, the weather has been generally unkind to retailers dependent on side-street shoppers, he noted, and Daisy & Lilly has suffered with the rest. ''Come spring, though,'' Mr. Poulton said, ''we expect all our customers will be coming back home.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Daisy & Lilly, a store for girls on Center Avenue, Westwood. (Photo by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)
JoEllen Jewelers has part of a house on Hilltop Road, Mendham. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Daisy & Lilly offers clothes and a place to hang out. At right, JoEllen Rubolotta waits on Catherine, Thomas, Kristine and Kenneth Donovan. (Photos by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times, left
 Dith Pran/The New York Times, right)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (76%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (72%); DOGS (72%); CONDOMINIUMS (69%); TEXTILES (69%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); RETAIL PROPERTY (67%) Retail Stores and Trade

ORGANIZATION: Daisy & Lilly (Westwood, NJ, Store)

PERSON: Antoinette Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



531 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 17; TELEVISION

LENGTH: 1853 words

HEADLINE: 'Sex' and the Mythic Movie Dream of New York City

BYLINE: By JAMES SANDERS. 
James Sanders, an architect, is the author of ''Celluloid Skyline: New York and the Movies.'' (www.celluloidskyline.com).

 BODY:
''WELCOME to the age of un-innocence,'' declared Carrie Bradshaw (Sarah Jessica Parker) at the start of the very first episode of ''Sex and the City,'' six years ago. ''No one has breakfast at Tiffany's, and no one has affairs to remember.'' The reference could not have been plainer. Anxious to give their new series the same jaded, cynical, contemporary tone as the Candace Bushnell stories from which it was drawn, the show's creators were seeking -- almost defiantly -- to distance themselves from the glowing, romantic vision of New York shaped by decades of Hollywood films (including, of course, ''Breakfast at Tiffany's'' and ''An Affair to Remember''). 
 It didn't quite work out that way. Indeed, as the series' six-season run comes to a much heralded conclusion this evening, it is clear that ''Sex and the City,'' perhaps more than any film or television project of recent decades, has succeeded in re-establishing the vision of a glamorous, mythic New York that had been a fixture in the popular imagination for much of the 20th century: a sophisticated wonderland, replete with nightclubs and cocktails, spacious terraces and skyline views, elegant shopping streets and sidewalks filled with stylish women. 
 That gleaming filmic metropolis, born with the rise of the talkies in the early 1930's, had been displaced in the late 1960's by what was, in many ways, its exact opposite: the cinematic vision of the city as a gritty urban battleground -- or, at its worst, urban wasteland -- filled with tough-talking ethnic characters whose only common ground seemed to be their distance from mainstream ''American'' values. As the earlier mythic New York had heightened the glamour of the real place, films as varied as ''Taxi Driver,'' ''Death Wish,'' ''Little Murders,'' and ''Escape From New York'' inflated a city struggling with immense social and economic problems into a spectacularly dysfunctional urban environment, separated by an almost unbridgeable gulf from the rest of the country. But in one of the swiftest and most stunning transformations in the history of cities, New York emerged in the mid-1990's from its decades of troubles to become the safest big city in the country -- a burgeoning, prosperous and essentially orderly (indeed, some might say too orderly) metropolis. 
 In ways obvious and not, the mythic New York of ''Sex and the City'' not only reflected that astonishing change, but restored a vision of the city that had flourished during the 1930's and 40's: a New York that stood not in opposition to the United States but as its apotheosis, the undisputed American metropolis, luring talented and ambitious young people from all around the country. Indeed, in an era when quotas had cut off the flow of foreign immigrants to New York, it was the energies of native-born newcomers that defined the character and spirit of both the real and filmic cities. To a remarkable degree, ''Sex and the City'' recalls that vision of a white Protestant urban culture; at least until the last few seasons, ethnic, foreign-born and African-American characters have tended to occupy marginal roles in the show as work colleagues, love interests or the subjects of ''people on the street'' interviews. The filmic city of the 1960's, '70's and 80's was dominated not only by ethnic characters -- Jewish, Italian, African American, and others -- but also by native-born New Yorkers. Though their origins are not entirely clear, it is obvious that ''Sex and the City's'' four major characters (whose last names -- Bradshaw, Jones, York, Hobbes -- would not look out of place in a white-shoe investment bank) are not native New Yorkers but women who have come to the city from elsewhere and made it their own. 
 In fact, it is the series' loving focus on its four female leads that links the show most closely and movingly to one of the earliest incarnations of the movie city. In the mid-1930's, in a series of romantic comedies made at Paramount, RKO and Columbia, the weepy or sentimental heroines common to earlier (and later) Hollywood films gave way for a time to what the critic Elizabeth Kendall, in her fine book on the era, ''The Runaway Bride,'' describes as ''loose, successful, eccentric and emotionally unmaimed young women in the city.'' Played by feisty, strong-willed stars like Claudette Colbert, Jean Arthur, Ginger Rogers and Barbara Stanwyck -- actresses whose own personalities, Ms. Kendall notes, ''were related to the city . . . and to the habits of self-preservation that the city required of its citizens,'' these breakthrough characters found their natural home in the vast urban arena of New York, where they could pursue romance and career, and seek to balance conventional social pressure toward matrimony with their own instincts for independence. Like the four friends in ''Sex and the City,'' these women inhabited the metropolis but also personified it; when Ms. Kendall observes that Colbert, for instance, ''projected a certain artificial childlikeness, overlaid with irony -- the essence of big-city sophistication,'' she could be describing Carrie herself. 
 Nor did the parallels end there. In ''Sex and the City,'' as in those classic romantic comedies, the distinctive texture of the city was sometimes evoked as much (or more) through witty dialogue or unexpected plot turns as through urban locations or production design. Indeed, for the generation of New York writers in Hollywood whose urbane banter propelled the best early talkies, the big-city way of life, Ms. Kendall notes, ultimately ''came down . . . to a way of speaking, a way of telling anecdotes, a way of talking at parties -- and a way of inventing movie stories.'' Like those 1930's films, ''Sex and the City'' played freely with the scale of the city, sometimes shrinking it to that of a smallish community where everyone seems to know each other, at other times enlarging it to allow for the kind of classic romantic trope that is possible only in a big city, such as the accidental sidewalk meeting of strangers. (Charlotte first encounters her future husband, for example, when she accidentally falls in front of a taxi with him in it.) Like the movie city of the 30's, the New York of ''Sex and the City'' is built from a rich and complex mix of the real and the imaginary, in which actual establishments -- Pastis, Bond Street, Bar Code, Sushi Samba -- are interspersed with invented clubs and restaurants, often sporting parodic one-word names like ''Fusion,'' ''Chaos'' or ''Denial'' (''Everyone in Manhattan wanted to be in Denial,'' Carrie remarks at one point). If both the series and the old Hollywood films, created for a national audience, tended to focus on Manhattan at the expense of other boroughs, the series took greater care -- and pleasure -- in delineating the character (and changing fortunes) of individual neighborhoods. Since the narrative transition was often a geographic reference (''Meanwhile, up on Park Avenue . . . '' or ''Later that night, on a date across town . . . ''), the city took on the quality of an immensely complex organism, embracing and sustaining within itself a dizzying multiplicity of disparate activities.
 Of course, ''Sex and the City'' is a television series, not a feature film -- but that only reinforces its ties to the cinematic city of the 1930's. Because of the limitations of lighting and film stock, movies of that era tended to be shot in shallow focus: close-ups or ''two-shots'' of the characters, standing in front of backgrounds that remained slightly indistinct. By the late 1930's, to be sure, directors like William Wyler and his cinematographer Gregg Toland (in films like 1937's ''Dead End'') were beginning to employ more complex sets and a new kind of deep-focus photography to provide a fuller, more architectural sense of urban space. After the war, the adoption of this new approach to filmmaking (given the name mise-en-scene by French critics) accelerated dramatically, as screen formats widened, film stock grew faster (allowing more depth-of-field) and both stage sets and urban locations became more ambitious, providing a breathtaking, three-dimensional feel to movie New York. 
 But the creators of ''Sex and the City,'' recognizing the small size and traditional format of the television screen, made the wise choice to hark back to the earlier 1930's tradition, generally presenting its characters in tightly framed two-shots, set in front of a wide variety of city backgrounds (now shot almost entirely on location, of course, rather than a backlot or process stage). The series resembles those fast-paced features, too, in the economy with which it evokes the city's landscape, using a handful of wide establishing shots, a couple of sidewalk tracking shots and occasional special locations, from the Chelsea Piers to a hidden courtyard in Greenwich Village to the backlit fountains of Columbus Circle. Like those early black-and-white films -- and unlike the lush, wide-screen color films of later decades -- ''Sex and the City'' almost never indulges in picturesque views for their own sake; no matter how glamorous or romantic, its images of the city always serve to propel the storyline. Even the spectacular city views that fill the show's opening credit sequence (especially in its original, pre-9/11 version) are used to tell a story -- indeed, the story of the series' essential relationship, between Carrie and New York itself: an entire romantic arc, complete with first glimpses, emerging demands, growing intimacy, sudden setbacks and ultimate affirmation, all condensed into exactly 38 seconds. 
 This last theme became explicit after Sept. 11, when the show's evocation of New York grew especially tender and Carrie began to wonder whether the city, in the end, was her ''one great love.'' But it was less this outward declaration than the series's continuing portrayal of its four characters, bravely (if sassily) navigating their way through New York's complex social landscape, that truly celebrated the special relationship between women and the city first explored in the comedies of the 1930's. Those films had suggested that the city might be a place of liberation for independent women, but also that the very lure of the place might lie as much in its romantic opportunities as its economic ones. The idea is still relevant today, when New York's urban vitality rests not only on its traditional strengths but on a simple demographic trend: that ambitious young people who decades ago might have paired off in 15 months now often take 15 years to find a partner. That extended search, the true subject of the series, not only fuels the engines of city life -- bars, restaurants, shopping, cultural activities -- but has helped to make the city itself an object of affection. Through its fictional texture, the New York of ''Sex and the City'' --- like that of the older comedies it evokes -- ultimately reveals a significant truth. As much as commerce or finance, it is the dreams of romance, and the energies of desire, that give New York its special place in the world's imagination.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Carrie in wonderland: Sarah Jessica Parker and Manhattan in ''Sex and the City.'' (Photo by Craig Blankenhorn/HBO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%) Television

PERSON: SARAH JESSICA PARKER (88%) James Sanders

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



532 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8; Investing

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: When an Industry Rides the High Seas

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
SHARES of many shipping companies have doubled in the last year, as growing global trade has propelled these businesses' revenue higher. But analysts are divided over whether this volatile part of the market can continue to prosper. 
 Optimists say a strong global economic outlook and a weakening dollar appear to favor the industry. But investors should also be aware that shares of these companies tend to mimic the movements of commodity markets, which can be capricious, said Boniface A. Zaino, the manager of the Royce Opportunity fund. 
 For instance, shares of companies that own tankers typically rise with oil prices. Early in 2003, before the war in Iraq, rates for the largest tankers were as low as $20,000 a day, barely the break-even point. Now the rates for these vessels, which move more than two million barrels of crude oil, hover near $80,000; they peaked at around $100,000 a few weeks ago.
 Royce Opportunity, a small-cap value fund, holds more than 500,000 shares of the OMI Corporation, a tanker company based in Stamford, Conn., which it bought at an average cost of $4.36 each; the stock is now at $10.09, up 120.3 percent in the last 12 months. The fund also owns 350,000 shares of Stelmar Shipping Ltd., based in Athens, bought at an average cost of $15.37; the stock is now at $27.27, up 81.9 percent over the same period. Both companies trade on the New York Stock Exchange.
 Although Mr. Zaino is cautious about shipping companies today, after the sharp increase in their shares last year, he says he still thinks they have some room to grow. ''For now there is a good balance of ships to demand,'' he said, ''and we expect an improving world economy.'' But he advised investors to be wary. ''More than with most companies, you walk on eggshells when dealing with commodities, in terms of economic outlook.''
 Even after the run-up, he said, shares are roughly in line with historical prices for the industry, based on ratios of price to cash flow and price to earnings. Typically, the market values the companies in the industry at four times cash flow, and often at less than 10 times earnings.
 John Kartsonas, an equity analyst at Standard & Poor's, called the sector ''a cyclical industry, not a growth industry.'' Demand for heating oil in the Northeast typically bolsters revenue for shipping companies in the first and fourth quarters, but revenue usually falls back in the second and third quarters. Mr. Kartsonas said he expects the usual seasonal declines over the next two quarters, although he predicts that annual revenue will be higher than it was in 2003. 
 Ship supply and demand also bears watching. Competition has often led to overbuilding when leasing fees rise. That tends to reduce the industry's pricing power in economic expansions, said Magnus Fyhr, a shipping analyst at Jefferies & Company in New York. Mr. Fyhr said stricter environmental regulations for tankers would force the industry to retire older ships in coming years, mitigating the tendency to overbuild.
 Single-hull tankers, for example, which are more prone to oil spills, are on their way out. The European Union has already banned them from its waters, and the International Maritime Organization, a United Nations agency that regulates shipping in 163 nations, passed similar rules in December. As a result, Mr. Fyhr estimates that 10 percent of tankers will need to be scrapped by the end of 2005, and an additional 30 percent by the end of 2010. He still predicts a net increase in tankers through 2005, but not as large as in previous economic recoveries.
 ''Tankers will retain good pricing power,'' he said.
 Economic growth in China also should help stave off an oversupply of container and dry bulk vessels -- those that move raw materials -- said Daniel J. Rice III, manager of the State Street Research Global Resources fund. China is ''relatively poor in natural resources,'' he said, so it needs to import a lot of raw materials. And finished products that were once produced in Mexico and moved by truck into the United States are now being transported from China.
 MR. RICE says shipyards are booked up for the next three years, so he does not think that the industry can overbuild as long as annual growth in China's gross domestic product tops 5 percent until 2007 or 2008, as is widely expected.
 Royal Nedlloyd, a Dutch container company that trades primarily in Amsterdam, is the 10th-largest holding in the State Street fund, which also holds OMI and Frontline, a tanker company based in Bermuda, and Daiichi Chuo Kisen Kaisha, a Japanese dry bulk shipper that trades in Tokyo.
 Some analysts are less sanguine that Chinese economic growth alone will be enough to sustain high shipping fees. The Chinese impact on global trade is ''absolutely real,'' said Jonathan Chappell, an analyst at J.P. Morgan Chase. But, he added, ''it's also the biggest wild card.''
 Mr. Chappell speculated that China might be building strategic oil reserves. He said oil imports grew by 14 percent in 2003 -- much faster than overall economic growth, which the Chinese government reported at 9.1 percent for the year. He expects G.D.P. growth closer to 5 percent in 2004.
 Continued weakness in the dollar could improve profit margins for some of the companies. By making imports more expensive, a weaker dollar may reduce demand for goods shipped into the United States. But a weaker dollar may increase exports and tighten the trade imbalance, which has been a headache for carriers because it is expensive to send ships away empty from the United States.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ships being unloaded at Port Newark, N.J., above, and Houston, right. The shipping industry has prospered, but some analysts advise caution. (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)
 (Photo by F. Carter Smith/Polaris, for The New York Times)Chart: ''Shipshape''The traditionally cyclical shipping business has been on an upward trend lately.Graph tracks Jefferies Tanker Index* plotted daily from January 2003 to February 2004.(Source by Jefferies & Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE TANKERS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CASH FLOW (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); BONDS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); BULK SHIPPING (78%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (78%); HEATING OIL (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); EQUITY RESEARCH (73%); US DOLLAR (72%); IRAQ WAR (70%) Ships and Shipping ; Industry Profiles; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: TORM A/S (69%); STELMAR SHIPPING LTD (67%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

TICKER: TRMD (NASDAQ) (69%); TORM (CPH) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (69%)

PERSON: J Alex Tarquinio

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (59%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



533 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7; STRATEGIES

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: A Time-Tested Sign of an Overvalued Market

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of CBS MarketWatch. His column on investment strategies appears every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
A RECENT academic study seriously undermines a popular reason for not worrying about the high price-to-earnings ratio of the stock market today: the idea that the ratios should be high when interest rates are low.
 The theoretical basis for this claim is the so-called Fed Model, which compares the interest rate on the government's 10-year Treasury note with the inverse of the stock market's P/E ratio -- known as the market's earnings yield. The stock market is considered undervalued when its earnings yield is greater than the Treasury note rate.
 According to this model, the stock market is significantly undervalued right now. The P/E ratio of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is now 18.2, based on companies' estimated operating earnings for 2004. That translates into an earnings yield of 5.5 percent, much higher than the current yield of 4.09 percent for the 10-year Treasury note. 
 The Fed Model was constructed by Edward E. Yardeni, now the chief investment strategist at the Prudential Equity Group, who based it on comments in the Fed's Monetary Policy Report to Congress in July 1997. The Federal Reserve has not endorsed the model. 
 If the Fed Model held true, earnings growth should be slower when Treasury note rates are high and faster when those rates are low. Historically, however, that has not been the case, according to the new study, ''Inflation Illusion and Stock Prices,'' by the Harvard finance professors John Y. Campbell and Tuomo Vuolteenaho. The study has circulated this month as a National Bureau of Economic Research working paper and is at www.nber.org/papers/w10263. 
 A similar conclusion was reached in a study by the finance professors Jay R. Ritter of the University of Florida and Richard S. Warr, now at North Carolina State. That study, published in 2002, covered 1978 to 1999, but the new one covered a much longer period: 1927 through 2002.
 The government's 10-year Treasury note has not traded during all those 75 years, but according to the professors, interest and inflation rates are highly correlated. And over those 75 years, earnings growth has tended to be higher during periods of high inflation and lower when inflation is low.
 Put another way, the professors conclude that stocks are a good long-term hedge against inflation. They found that the growth rate of real, or inflation-adjusted, earnings is relatively constant when measured over several-year periods. That means the growth rate of nominal earnings tends to rise and fall with inflation.
 Many investors overlook that point, because they assume that changes in inflation will not affect nominal earnings growth. Economists call that assumption an ''inflation illusion.'' If it were true, real earnings growth should be faster in periods of low inflation, justifying higher P/E ratios.
 But the assumption has not been true over time, according to Professors Campbell and Vuolteenaho. As a result, they found that the stock market has tended to become significantly undervalued in times of high inflation and overvalued in times of low inflation.
 CONSIDER equity valuations during the late 1970's and early 1980's, when interest rates and inflation were high. Investors used the equivalent of the Fed Model to justify a low P/E ratio for the overall market. The late Franco Modigliani, who was a finance professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology during that time and in 1985 would be the Nobel laureate in economics, recognized the inflation illusion that was implicit in this argument. In a 1979 article, he argued that stocks were significantly undervalued -- a view that was vindicated in the 1980's and 90's by the strong bull market in stocks. 
 The situation today is the mirror opposite of what prevailed in the late 1970's, suggesting that stocks may be as overvalued today as they were undervalued then.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Inflation and Earnings''Since 1925, corporate earnings growth has tended to slow when inflation is falling and pick up when inflation is rising.Average annual growth over previous 10 yearsGraph tracks earnings for companies in the S.& P. 500 index, or its equivalent and Producer Price Index since 1930.(Source by Profs. John Y. Campbell and Tuomo Vuolteenaho, Harvard University)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); INFLATION (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); BONDS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%) Stocks and Bonds; Research; Interest Rates; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: Mark Hulbert

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



534 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6; BOOK VALUE

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Of Globalization And the Greater Good

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN. 
William J. Holstein is editor in chief of Chief Executive magazine.

 BODY:
JAVED ABIDI traveled to the United States from India as a teenager in the late 1970's for treatment of his spinal cord. It was too late to reverse the damage caused by a birth defect, but American specialists started his rehabilitation and showed Mr. Abidi how to live with the physical challenge of using a wheelchair for mobility.
 Mr. Abidi returned to India with the startling idea that people with physical challenges should be able to lead their lives the way other people do -- and not be hidden away or forced to beg on the streets. He began organizing a movement to defend the rights of the disabled in India, an effort that took off after a telephone conference call between a group of American activists and Mr. Abidi's allies. With the help of modern communications systems, the ideas spread quickly. 
 Globalization is often criticized because of the economic disruptions it creates, the diseases it can spread and the severe gaps in wealth it reveals. But in a new book, David Bornstein offers a different perspective on globalization that is thoroughly uplifting and encouraging.
 In ''How to Change the World: Social Entrepreneurs and the Power of New Ideas'' (Oxford University Press, $28), Mr. Bornstein shows how new communications tools are allowing activists, whom he calls social entrepreneurs, to bring about change at the grass-roots level.
 Mr. Bornstein spent five years traveling around the world to gather material for the book. Readers are with him on the ground in India, Brazil, South Africa and Poland, among other places. In each, he chronicles how people are tackling problems like the lack of electricity in rural areas, child abuse, illiteracy and poor medical care for those with AIDS.
 In one clear case of how technology has played a positive role, a social entrepreneur named Jeroo Billimoria created a telephone hot line in India for abandoned and abused children. Her group also set up a database to analyze call patterns and identify specific trouble spots in cities, such as railway stations where homeless children gather and often develop health problems. The service has now spread to 75 cities.
 One of the heroes of the book is Bill Drayton, an American who was influenced by the nonviolent traditions of Gandhi and created an organization called Ashoka: Innovators for the Public. This group looks for emerging social entrepreneurs around the world and aims to give them money, often in association with other foundations. Mr. Bornstein does a good job of weaving together the story of Ashoka, a group named for an Indian emperor who practiced the doctrine of nonviolence, with individual tales and placing their activities in a wider context. 
 That broader analysis, he argues, suggests the birth of a new sector of human activity, beyond government and business. It is becoming a vocation and a mainstream area of inquiry. 
 ''Around the world, people are encountering similar problems: inadequate education and health systems, environmental threats, declining trust in political institutions, entrenched poverty, high crime rates and so forth,'' he writes. ''But in poorer countries, social entrepreneurs have to reach far more people with far less money, so they have to be especially innovative to advance solutions of scale.''
 These people, he writes, recognize new ideas and know how to market and promote them. 
 ''An idea will not move from the fringes to the mainstream simply because it is good; it must be skillfully marketed before it will actually shift people's perceptions and behavior,'' he writes. An ''obsessive individual'' is needed, he adds, to build a coalition on a shoestring budget and to translate an idea into action. Such people, he asserts, hold the keys to economic development. There are only two discouraging notes in the book. In the first chapter, Mr. Bornstein argues that social entrepreneurs are necessary because governments ''appear increasingly impotent in the face of concentrated corporate power.'' The author seems to see the entrepreneurs as working against unnamed, presumably evil corporations.
 Yet his book does not support that argument. In most cases, his social entrepreneurs are fighting ignorance and poverty. In very few cases can these injustices be blamed on a corporation. 
 In fact, one of the minor heroes of the book is McKinsey & Company, which provided advisory services to Vera Cordeiro, a Brazilian activist who tried to improve the health care that children receive after leaving a hospital.
 THE second disappointment, obviously not Mr. Bornstein's fault, is that social entrepreneurship is not taking hold in Africa, with the possible exception of South Africa, where advocates for people with AIDS have mobilized. There is something about the depth of despair in Africa that has made it difficult for Ashoka to seed the clouds of social entrepreneurship, in part because Africans, he writes, tend to be skeptical about Western organizations and tend to favor a statist approach to development.
 So the social entrepreneurship chronicled by Mr. Bornstein will probably not cure all that ails the planet, but there is little question that he has identified a force for change. The book is must reading for anyone who cares about building a more equitable, and therefore more stable, world.


GRAPHIC: Photos: In his new book, David Bornstein says new technology has played a powerful role in tackling social problems around the world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); CHILDREN (77%); WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); LITERATURE (72%); TRENDS (71%); AIDS & HIV (69%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); HOMELESSNESS (63%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (50%) Social Conditions and Trends; Reviews; Books and Literature; Telephones and Telecommunications

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%)

PERSON: William J Holstein; David Bornstein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (94%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



535 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6; ECONOMIC VIEW

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Two Tales of American Jobs

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
FOR more than a year, Bush administration officials and Republicans in Congress have seized on an intriguing statistical puzzle to suggest that job creation in the United States may be much stronger than it appears at first glance.
 The puzzle is the enormous divergence between the two surveys that are used by the Bureau of Labor Statistics to measure job creation and unemployment. The payroll survey, which is based on a monthly poll of 400,000 employers, shows a loss of more than two million jobs since 2001. The household survey, based on questions posed to people in 50,000 households, shows an increase of more than 500,000 jobs over the same period. 
 If the payroll survey is correct, Mr. Bush is on track to be the first president since Herbert Hoover to complete a term in office with fewer jobs than when he started. If the household survey is correct, Mr. Bush can claim credit for creating jobs despite the blows of a recession, terrorist attacks and two wars.
 The household survey also seems to support a political theory: that many people dropped from the company payrolls are not unemployed but rather self-employed. While the payroll survey suggests economic malaise, the household survey implies entrepreneurial energy.
 ''The household survey shows that we're at an all-time high in employment,'' said Senator Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma and chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, at a hearing this month. ''It shows that, at least if you look at this trend, the employment situation has improved rather substantially.''
 Administration officials are more cautious.
 ''At this point, the gap between the payroll and the household data continues to be a puzzle,'' said N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, in a speech this month. But, he added, the number of self-employed workers has risen by 326,000 in the last three years and the ''extent of self-employment has changed as the economy has changed.''
 Unfortunately for the optimists, the Federal Reserve has just thrown cold water on the household data. It concludes that the gloomy payroll data is essentially accurate and that the household survey is probably off base.
 ''I wish I could say the household survey were the more accurate,'' Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, said in his testimony at a House hearing on Feb. 11. ''Everything we've looked at suggests that it's the payroll data which are the series which you have to follow.''
 To test the self-employment theory, the Fed adjusted the household survey by taking out all the kinds of workers who do not show up on the payroll survey -- self-employed people, but also farm workers and family workers in family-run companies. Even then, Mr. Greenspan said, the discrepancy remains large.
 The Fed's conclusion was that the household survey's results have been inflated by overestimates of population growth.
 Because the household survey is a sample, the Bureau of Labor Statistics infers the total change in jobs by multiplying the ratio of employed to unemployed workers in the household survey by its estimate of the total population. If the population estimate is too high, the estimated number of jobs will also be too high.
 THE Bureau of Labor Statistics bases its population estimate on the 2000 census, but it updates that estimate yearly with data on births, deaths and immigration. Immigration numbers are largely guesswork, however, because so much immigration is illegal. Fed officials suspect that the immigration estimate is inflated, because it fails to reflect tighter immigration controls after Sept. 11, 2001, as well as declines caused by the economic slowdown.
 Indeed, the Bureau of Labor Statistics lowered its population estimate in January. Plugging the new estimate into the previous household surveys, the bureau found nearly half the apparent increase in jobs during the last three years vanished.
 Not content, Mr. Greenspan also devised a ''synthetic'' population estimate by crossing the household survey's ratio of employed workers to work force data in the unemployment insurance system. The results? ''A significantly slower pace'' of population growth, according to the Fed chairman.
 The good news for the job market is that both surveys are now pointing to increases in employment. The bad news is that, compared with previous economic recoveries, both measures suggest that job growth remains well below par.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Whom to Believe?''The job picture is better or worse, depending on who is surveyed.Graph tracks cumulative net jobs (households and businesses) from 2001 to 2003.(Source by Economy.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); JOB CREATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); STATISTICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SALARY SURVEYS (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (76%); BUDGETS (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); FARM LABOR (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%); TERRORISM (53%) Labor; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Bureau of Labor Statistics; Labor Department (US); Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



536 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4; In the Region/Westchester

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: $45 Million Retail Complex Rising in Mount Vernon

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: MOUNT VERNON 

 BODY:
''IT'S taken us six years, but we're finally getting there!'' Douglas Riley, a partner in G&S Investors, proudly observed one recent afternoon, pointing to his company's $45 million retail construction project here.
 The 285,000-square-foot retail development of big-box stores and discounters is rising on two sides of Sandford Boulevard, a main thoroughfare along which Staples, CVS, ShopRite and stores in a small strip mall are already doing business, 
 But until last year, Mount Vernon's Sandford Boulevard Redevelopment Project was delayed, mostly by legal challenges filed in State Supreme Court by the neighboring village of Pelham. Now that the courts have ruled in favor of the city, G&S has been able to move ahead, Mr. Riley said. 
 Among other things, Pelham, along with at least one private citizens' group, objected to the additional traffic that the retail stores would generate, asserting that the congestion would degrade the quality of life in the area and pose a risk to students walking to and from school activities on nearby playing fields. Pelham contended that Mount Vernon acted improperly when it approved a study of the property and rezoned the site to allow the project.
 But this economically struggling city in southern Westchester viewed the project from a different perspective. City planners here eagerly await the creation of 400 new jobs and $5 million in annual sales tax revenues from the project, said Gerri Post, Mount Vernon's commissioner of planning and community development.
 One new store, a 47,000-square-foot Best Buy, the chain's third Westchester store, has opened for business on the north side of Sandford Boulevard. The three other retailers -- Target, Bed Bath & Beyond and TJ Maxx -- are to open next fall across the street.
 Best Buy, the Minneapolis-based national retailer of consumer electronics, has a store in Yonkers, in a building formerly occupied by Pergament Home Stores, and another in Hartsdale, in a shopping center where a Service Merchandise was situated. 
 Patrick Matre, vice president of real estate for Best Buy, said the company sought high-density, high-visibility sites close to major highways. The newest Westchester store on Sandford Boulevard, which opened in July, is between two exits on the Hutchinson River Parkway and draws from White Plains to the north and the Bronx to the south. Mr. Matre described the Mount Vernon store as having ''a peekaboo view from the Hutch.''
 THE retailer, which both buys and rents sites and has 600 stores nationwide, is leasing the Mount Vernon store, with its parking lot, from G&S. The outlet here, which the developer built to Best Buy's specifications, is expected ''to take some pressure off of the Yonkers store and not detract from its success,'' Mr. Matre said, explaining why the two stores are situated only several miles away from each other. 
 ''In our world,'' he said, ''cannibalization is not always such a bad thing.''
 Under the deal it struck with the city, G&S, which is based in Bethpage, N.Y., is renting the two acres on which Best Buy is situated (formerly the site of parking lots) from the Mount Vernon development agency in a 47-year renewable lease, Ms. Post said. Also as part of the agreement, G&S is making payments in lieu of taxes, which come to $240,000 in the first year.
 The developer bought 11 acres (in five parcels) on the south side of Sandford Boulevard from several owners, including private parties, Westchester County and Mount Vernon. On those parcels, the developer is building a two-story structure that will include 145,000 square feet on the first floor for Target, 45,000 square feet on the second floor for Bed Bath & Beyond, and 30,000 square feet for TJ Maxx, also on the second floor.
 G&S is in negotiations with two more retailers for the building, but Mr. Riley would not say who they were. It will also be making payments to the city in lieu of taxes for that part of the project, Ms. Post said.
 The developer has two other Westchester projects. In the late 1990's, it built a 137,000-square-foot Costco Wholesale Club on 12.3 acres in New Rochelle. In Port Chester, it is developing 27 acres of urban and waterfront property for new stores, restaurants and a multiplex theater. A 145,000-square-foot, two-level Costco has already opened there. Marshalls, Bed Bath & Beyond and Super Stop & Shop are among the stores expected to open in Port Chester later this year.
 In Mount Vernon, the Target store will be the retailer's second outlet in Westchester. Last fall, the national discount merchandiser opened a 153,000-square-foot store in the City Center at White Plains, becoming the first retailer to ring up sales in a new $320 million retail-residential complex that also includes a Circuit City and a 15-screen National Amusements movie theater. White Plains represented Target's first basement-level store and its first outlet in a mixed-use residential-retail complex. 
 ''The Mount Vernon store is a more traditional Target, on the first level and with a parking deck out front,'' said Paula Thornton-Greear, a Target spokeswoman. Usually, the retailer -- which has more than 1,200 stores in 47 states -- moves into one-level, free-standing stores in a regional shopping area.
 Target, which opens up to 100 new stores a year and now has 1,225 outlets in the United States but has no immediate plans for further expansion in Westchester, had been considering Mount Vernon as a site for some time, Ms. Thornton-Greear said. 
 At the International Council of Shopping Centers in Manhattan, the global trade association of the shopping center industry, Malachy Kavanagh, a spokesman, described Mount Vernon as ''a good location for big-box retailers because of its proximity to the Hutchinson River Parkway.'' 
 ''Because of access to the parkway, the store will draw from not only Mount Vernon, which does not in and of itself have a large retail base, but also from Pelham and parts of the Bronx like Co-op City,'' he said. Co-op City houses more than 33,000 people.
 While Best Buy is a ''destination in itself,'' and can function as a stand-alone store with its own parking, the three other retailers -- Target, TJ Maxx and Bed Bath & Beyond -- work better together in a location where they can create synergy, Mr. Kavanagh said. 
 ''BEST BUY'S customer is purpose-driven and will park and get in and out of the store and go home,'' Mr. Kavanagh said. ''The other three tend to attract a customer who likes to comparison shop and look around.''
 TJ Maxx, which is based in Framingham, Mass., offers brand-name merchandise at prices below those in department stores. It has 700 stores -- 45 of them in New York -- across the country. In Westchester, it already has stores in Mount Kisco, Yonkers, Hartsdale and Yorktown Heights.
 Bed Bath & Beyond, which is based in Union, N.J., also has four other Westchester locations: in Hartsdale, Elmsford, Yonkers and Yorktown Heights.
 In addition to its projects in New Rochelle, Port Chester and Mount Vernon, G&S has built and leased a shopping center in Livingston, N.J., and another in Jersey City.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 29, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about retail development in Mount Vernon, N.Y., referred incorrectly to a building that housed a Shop-Rite supermarket on Sandford Boulevard. It is being enlarged for another retailer; Shop-Rite is no longer in business there. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Douglas Riley, partner in G&S Investors, at Best Buy. Three other stores are to open across the street. (Photo by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)Map of Westchester highlighting area to be developed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (77%); ZONING (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); SALES TAX (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (66%); JOB CREATION (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Shopping Centers

COMPANY: T J MAXX (53%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: G&s Investors

TICKER: BBBY (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (53%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (53%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%)

PERSON: Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Pelham (NY); Mount Vernon (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



537 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: Exploring the Country For Lower Costs of Living

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Escaping to the Land of Cheaper Living'' (Seniority, Feb. 8) in which Fred Brock described how people could retire in small towns for less than half the living costs of some big metropolitan areas:
 I've been pursuing that strategy since my decision in 1999 to retire at age 55 in 2006 and move from San Francisco to rural northern Michigan. Some friends and relatives wonder why I would leave with an annual pension worth just under 40 percent of my current salary. But I realized that I would have to work until the age of 72 to remain in my current home in San Francisco after I retired. And I have seen colleagues work until late in life for a big pension, only to encounter serious illness upon retirement.
 My initial considerations were strictly economic. With the equity in my current home, I could afford to build a customized house in Michigan that would be much larger and more comfortable. And the costs of living, aside from those for food, would be much lower. 
 Next, I considered quality-of-life issues. Here I am in a congested American city. While I love my work, I don't love where I live. I imagined living away from concrete and steel, more in tune with the rhythms of nature. My many vacations in northern Michigan gave me a basis for my search. I stumbled across a beautiful island in the Great Lakes, complete with a charming small town and an active community of artist and academic retirees.
 I bought 10 acres of wooded land (the minimum lot size there) on which to build my home. The architect's drawings are going to blueprints, and the builder says we start construction next year. 
 You can indeed retire sooner and on less money than many experts would advise. Knowing yourself and what you want from retired life are the keys.

Dan Wardlow
San Francisco, Feb. 8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COST OF LIVING (91%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Housing; Economic Conditions and Trends; Cost of Living

PERSON: Dan Wardlow; Fred Brock

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); GREAT LAKES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Michigan

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



538 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: Exploring the Country For Lower Costs of Living

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 In the column, Fred Brock explained that ''if you make $100,000 a year in New York, you can duplicate your lifestyle in Kentucky for a bit over $40,000.'' That's true, unless your lifestyle happens to include dining at an ever-changing array of restaurants, shopping at upscale boutiques, going to museums and galleries and generally soaking up the energy of the street.
 Though I don't believe I lead the same life here in low-cost Burlington, Vt., that would be available to me at greater expense in New York City, I'm very satisfied. No salary increase could replace the relative lack of traffic, crowds and crime and the views of lake and mountains that we enjoy here.

Sara Solnick
Burlington, Vt., Feb. 10

The writer is an assistant professor of economics at the University of Vermont.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COST OF LIVING (90%); CITY LIFE (85%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (84%); WRITERS (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); TRENDS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Cost of Living; Urban Areas; Rural Areas

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (55%)

PERSON: Sara (Prof) Solnick; Fred Brock

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (68%) VERMONT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



539 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: Exploring the Country For Lower Costs of Living

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Retirees aren't the only ones who may want to move to areas with lower costs of living. I bought a five-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath colonial with a garage in Cazenovia, N.Y., outside Syracuse, for $150,000 six months ago. We are in our mid-30's and wanted someplace reasonably affordable with good schools for our daughter.
 Compared with the Boston area, where I'm from, my new town offers better schools, less traffic and homes in comparable neighborhoods for two-thirds less money. I'm also exactly 20 miles from the city, the same as when I lived near Boston.

George Twohig
Cazenovia, N.Y., Feb. 9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COST OF LIVING (90%); TRENDS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Cost of Living

PERSON: george twohig; Fred Brock

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (70%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



540 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; PT2; Column 1; Fashions of The Times Magazine; Pg. 120

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Silk And Human Kindness

BYLINE: By Carlotta Gall. 
Carlotta Gall reports for The New York Times from Kabul.

 BODY:
The winter sun in Kabul streams through the large classroom windows, lighting the girls' veils and their faces as they look up spellbound at their employer, Sarah Takesh, who is outlining their next task.
 ''Don't do it like this, but like this,'' Takesh tells them, quickly drawing a wavy stem with flowers and leaves branching off. She gives out pieces of hand-woven silk in smooth plastic bags to each of the women and teenage girls. 
 An American designer who lives out of a suitcase in the United States, India and Afghanistan, Takesh has embarked on one of the boldest fashion enterprises this side of Timbuktu: Tarsian & Blinkley, a ''Made in Afghanistan'' label, which sells in boutiques like Butter in Brooklyn and through her Web site, www.tarsian.com.
 The beauty of Afghan women and their handicrafts are little known outside Afghanistan and may be a tough sell, but Takesh is harnessing the women's exquisite embroidery skills and their eagerness to work.
 The result is a collection of silk blouses and sleeveless tops decorated with snatches of silk embroidery, beading or crochet, and slim pants and wrap skirts flaunting asymmetrical embroidery. She describes the designs as a mix of casual and feminine, ''East meets West,'' ''girliness in a war zone.''
 ''The worldview of Afghan women is the burka, and it's depressing,'' Takesh says over a lunch of kebabs, flat naan bread and pomegranates in Kabul. 
 ''But I love the old art of this region, and there is something so powerful about Islamic countries. There is a certain beauty and forbiddenness about them.''
 Iranian-born -- her grandfather was a feudal lord -- Takesh, 30, speaks the language and is very much at home in Kabul. She has lived in the United States since she was 5, but was drawn back to the region through a combination of her mother's stories of life in the gardens and feudal fortresses of Iran, and her own sense of adventure. She traveled to Pakistan's northwest frontier, and toured the silk-road cities of Kabul; Peshawar, in Pakistan; and the fabled Kashgar, in western China.
 Tarsian & Blinkley, conceived while she was at business school in Berkeley two years ago, is born out of her wild imaginings about a beautiful, fictional Scythian horsewoman who meets the quintessential, impeccably tailored English gentleman in the Pamir mountains.
 ''I want to be focused on one thing, Central Asia, and slowly over time evoke an atmosphere,'' she explains. 
 She talks of one day helping to revive the ancient silk weaving famous in northern Afghanistan and the Uzbekistan cities of Bokhara and Samarkand to the north. (Her Web site boasts the bold, rich-colored silk ikat design.) More immediately, her company allows her to mix her deep love of fashion with a genuine desire to help Afghan women emerge from the grim darkness of their lives after years of war and the repressive Taliban rule.
 ''Unspeakable terrors have fallen on every family here,'' Takesh says, adding that each of the women working for her is dealing with mental anguish and personal loss. ''Marzia is one of the best workers. Her eldest brother got blown up by a mortar shell in their own backyard, and her eyes always reveal a sharp sadness.''
 Afghan women -- forbidden to work and restricted to their homes for five years under the fundamentalist regime, many of them also traumatized by the war -- are desperate for work and for some economic independence. Despite the enormous changes in the last two years since the American war against the Taliban, women in Afghanistan remain trapped by their lack of education and job opportunities, and a very strict traditional culture that keeps them at home raising children.
 Embroidery is one thing they all know, for every Afghan girl learns the skill from her mother and still prepares for her marriage a trousseau of embroidered cloths, hangings and shawls -- and it is something the girls can work on at home.
 ''Everyone tried to put me off the idea of working in Afghanistan, saying that quality control would be so difficult,'' she says. ''But I kept complaining, nagging and controlling, and it has not been so bad.''
 She has in fact found willing partners every step of the way. ''It's good for us, we are unemployed and we can do this work at home,'' says Anise, 55, who arrives with her daughter to collect work. There is pride, too. ''All the time they are sending us charity clothes from abroad,'' Anise continues, ''and we are proud that this time we are making things for American women.'' The women are paid from about $2.50 to $4 a day -- above-average wages -- and they all say they need it badly.
 Takesh says she can already see changes in the women. A year ago they were silent and tense, and clung to the all-enveloping burka out of fear and insecurity. ''This year is very different,'' she says. ''They look better.''
 She teamed up with Nasirullah, a master tailor and instructor in Kabul. Nasirullah runs sewing and tailoring training courses for Afghan women, and over the years he has trained 5,000 women through his organization, the Afghan Women's Vocational Skills Learning Center. Working out of offices belonging to him and an American nonprofit organization, Morning Star Development, Takesh has tapped into a pool of local female embroiderers and male tailors who quickly assemble when word gets out that work is available. ''Here you just yell out the window when you need them,'' she says.
 For all the romance of the region and the compassion she feels for Afghan women, Takesh displays a fierce practicality and knowledge of the fashion business from her years living and working in New York. (At one point, when one of the women lining up for work snatches at the fabric, Takesh chides her: ''You made the material very dirty. I will never give work to you again.'')
 She studied architecture at Columbia University and took several courses at Parsons, before doing different jobs ''running around the garment district.'' In 2001, she went to business school at Berkeley, where she won two prizes for her Tarsian & Blinkley business plan.
 ''Fashion is brutal; no one is going to care about Afghans,'' she says. ''The difficulty will be the marketing.'' Which is why her latest collection is intentionally ''hip and young and sexy.''
 ''It has little surprises,'' she says, ''a thin crocheted line of midnight blue, two fingers of sequins, and richer, stronger colors. I don't think my mother will be wearing it.''
 As she sits on the floor pinning labels to finished garments before packing them up for shipping, she talks of the next part of the job, and for the first time displays some anxiety. She will be spending time in the United States, concentrating on the stressful job of selling her clothes, touring boutiques and finding a showroom for her collection.
 ''In March I'll come back to Kabul, get a house, settle down, open a shop,'' she says. She has already found an enthusiastic clientele among shop-starved United Nations staff members in Kabul and plans to have a factory of her own within a year to raise production to more than 1,000 pieces a month and employ more women full time. She says confidently, ''I'm in the right place.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: The women of Kabul, left, who work for Tarsian & Blinkley, the designer Sarah Takesh's label, produce handicrafts like the blouse, above, and tunic below. A colorful silk map of Afghanistan made at a vocational center shows off the nation's embroidery skills. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF LUKE POWELL (2)
 From left, a halter top from the fall 2004 collection and Takesh with her master tailor, Nasirullah. (FROM LEFT: PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL TRAPANI. PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF LUKE POWELL.)Drawing (DRAWING COURTESY OF SARAH TAKESH.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (75%); TRENDS (73%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); RELIGION (50%) Apparel; Embroidery; Women; Special Sections; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Sarah Takesh; Carlotta Gall; Nasirullah (Afghan Tailor)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%) XINJIANG, CHINA (57%) AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%) Afghanistan 

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



541 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 16; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-22-04: ESSAY

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: A Prettier Jobs Picture?

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel. 
Virginia Postrel is the author of ''The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness'' (HarperCollins).

 BODY:
Productivity has risen rapidly over the past year, to the astonishment and delight of most economists. But a lot of people are still worried. What if increased productivity means that jobs disappear? Could the economy get too efficient? All over the world, even in China, factories are producing more stuff with fewer workers. On the Internet, visionaries fret over the rise of robots, while programmers denounce American companies for ''outsourcing'' their once-secure jobs to Indian engineers. Is this the recession -- or the recovery -- that does away with American jobs for good?
 Many of the jobs that disappeared in the recent recession have indeed vanished forever, according to a recent study by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Those workers will not be recalled as the economy improves. New jobs will have to be genuinely new, created in new or expanding enterprises. 
 But where will they come from? In a quickly evolving economy, in which increased productivity constantly makes some jobs redundant, we notice the job losses. It is much harder to spot where new jobs are emerging. Our mental categories tend to be behind the times. When we think of jobs, we see factories, secretarial pools, police officers, lawyers. We forget all about jobs we see every day.
 The official job counters at the Bureau of Labor Statistics don't do much to overcome our blind spots. The bureau is good at counting people who work for large organizations in well-defined, long-established occupations. It is much less adept at counting employees in small businesses, simply because there are too many small enterprises to representatively sample them. The bureau's occupational survey, which might suggest which jobs are growing, doesn't count self-employed people or partners in unincorporated businesses at all. And many of today's growing industries, the ones adding jobs even amid the recession, are comprised largely of small companies and self-employed individuals. That is particularly true for aesthetic crafts, from graphic designers and cosmetic dentists to gardeners. These specialists' skills are in ever greater demand, yet they tend to work for themselves or in partnerships.
 Consider the ubiquitous granite counter top. The slabs are imported, but the counter tops are made in the United States, and the shops that do the work are proliferating rapidly. ''It's an explosive trend,'' says Michael Reis, editor of the industry magazine Stone World. In 2002 alone, the magazine added 2,000 fabricators to its 20,000 subscribers. Reis estimates that there are 8,000 to 10,000 fabrication shops in the country.
 Equipping a fabricating business can cost less than $30,000, thanks to relatively inexpensive machinery developed over the past decade. Sales are holding strong. Seventy-three percent of Stone World subscribers said their business was up in 2002, and nearly 60 percent of those reported an increase of more than 16 percent. The fabricators are small local shops, usually with fewer than 10 employees, which makes stone fabrication the sort of industry job prognostications tend to overlook. The Bureau of Labor Statistics survey doesn't have a separate category for this burgeoning construction craft. It is lumped under ''cutting and slicing machine setters, operators, and tenders,'' a production category dominated by people slicing paper in mills and printing plants. So losses in those fields mask the growth among stone crafters.
 Or take Denise Revely, just the sort of worker that people who worry there will be no jobs in the future have in mind. She is in many ways a typical middle-class American, with skills, experience and some formal training but no college degree. Divorced with two grown daughters, she owns a house, pays her taxes, supports herself. Far from a tale of woe, Revely's resume is a good place to find the resilience of the American economy. She used to work in an electronics factory. Now she gives facials. She used to draw a paycheck from a day spa. Now she works for herself. Her business has been in the black ever since she opened last July. But as far as official statistics are concerned, she doesn't exist.
 Neither do a lot of people in her rapidly growing field. In 2002, spas in the United States employed 176,000 people full time and another 106,000 part time, up from 50,000 full-time employees and 26,000 part-timers five years earlier, according to the International Spa Association. (These numbers do not include independent contractors, some of whom rent space inside spas.) Some of those spa employees show up in the bureau survey, which counts 15,580 skin-care specialists, 31,350 manicurists and 27,160 massage therapists. But a lot are still missing.
 The American Massage Therapy Association counts more than 46,000 members -- nearly 20,000 more massage therapists than the bureau could locate for the profession as a whole. The association estimates that there are between 260,000 and 290,000 massage therapists in the United States, including students, compared with 120,000 to 160,000 in 1996. The bureau count thus overlooks some 200,000 massage jobs.
 Similarly, the bureau has missed more than 300,000 manicurists. It puts the total at around 30,000, compared with the count of 372,000 -- up from 189,000 a decade ago -- by Nails magazine, using private survey and state licensing data. Even if not all licensed manicurists are practicing, the bureau number is off by an order of magnitude. There are 53,000 nail salons in the country, most of them with more than one manicurist. The industry supports two major trade magazines, each with about 60,000 subscribers.
 Compared with stone crafters, gardeners or graphic designers, manicurists should be easy to track. ''This is not a gray market business,'' says Cyndy Drummey, the editor of Nails. ''It is licensed and regulated.'' Yet because this business is wildly decentralized and doesn't fit traditional categories of what constitutes a job -- most manicurists are independent contractors or shop owners -- it can add tens of thousands of jobs without catching the government's notice. And behind each manicurist are people making the tools of the trade.
 It is tempting, of course, to treat these undercounts as trivial. After all, what do 200,000 massage therapists or 300,000 manicurists matter in a country of 290 million people? But this list of occupations is hardly comprehensive. In every booming job category I looked at, official surveys were missing thousands of jobs. As the economy evolves, however, this bias against small enterprises and self-employment becomes more and more significant. By missing so many new sources of productivity, the undercounts distort our already distorted view of economic value -- the view that treats traditional manufacturing and management jobs as more legitimate, even more real, than craft professions or personal-service businesses. But the truth is, value can come as much from intangible pleasures as it can from tangible goods.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Vincent Laforet)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CUT STONE PRODUCT MFG (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); STATISTICS (70%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (61%); VISUAL ARTISTS (61%) Labor; Small Business; Labor

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (70%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%) Bureau of Labor Statistics

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%)

PERSON: Virginia Postrel

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



542 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9; Personal Business

LENGTH: 1823 words

HEADLINE: Cutting the Home Cord, Not the Home Number

BYLINE: By EVE TAHMINCIOGLU

 BODY:
MELANIE BROEMSEN, a technology specialist from Canton, Ohio, has moved several times over the last few years, and almost every time she has had to set up new land-line telephone service or change numbers. She did neither when she moved to another part of town in December. 
 Just a month before she got her new apartment, the federal government made it possible for her and other people who live in the 100 largest metropolitan areas to keep their land-line home numbers when they switch their regular phone service to a wireless carrier. ''I wanted the stability of keeping my home number for me, my family and friends,'' Ms. Broemsen, 33, said. ''Changing my land-line into my cell number, and therefore only paying one bill, seemed like the perfect solution.''
 It could also prove beneficial in the long term. Telecommunications experts predict that cellular service will improve significantly over the next few years as companies move toward consolidation. Last week, Cingular Wireless agreed to acquire AT&T Wireless for $41 billion; the deal would create the largest wireless company in the nation. Bigger players, the experts say, are likely to complete more network upgrades and service improvements, which ultimately could mean fewer dropped calls, clearer reception and larger coverage areas for customers. But they also warned that fewer competitors could mean fewer deals down the line. 
 For now, though, Ms. Broemsen sees financial benefits to going wireless. She said that disconnecting from a land line saved her about $30 a month. (It would have been more, she said, had she not decided to upgrade her wireless service by adding calling minutes to her plan. The extra minutes were needed because she would no longer have a land line.) 
 When the Federal Communications Commission announced its new policy on phone-number portability last year, most attention was focused on how consumers could transfer their cellphone numbers from one wireless carrier to another. Adam Guy, an analyst at the Yankee Group, a market research firm, said that happened because the federal government did not issue its ruling on the land-line number transfers until just before the portability rule took effect on Nov. 24.
 Of the nearly 1.5 million numbers that have been transferred, only about 36,000 have been from land-line to wireless phones, the Federal Communications Commission said. But Mr. Guy and other analysts predict that more consumers will choose to keep their land-line phone numbers, which some have had for decades, and switch to wireless service altogether as the service improves and after realizing how much money they can save. 
 In the Telecommunications Act of 1996, Congress tried to foster competition by opening the regional Bell system to smaller competitors. But consumers still have few choices in land-line service. As of 2002, only 13.2 percent of the nation's 188 million local phone lines were served by competing carriers, a 2003 report by the Federal Communications Commission said. The small amount of competition is evident in the cost of service, analysts say. The average cost for local services, including features like call waiting and caller identification, and excluding long distance, has risen 25 percent, on average, since the Telecommunications Act was passed, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, versus general inflation of 17 percent over the same period. Even customers who subscribe to bare-bones service had rate increases of 17 percent, on average. The F.C.C. report found that basic local monthly charges for residential phone service averaged $23.38 in 2002, up from $19.95 in 1996.
 By contrast, the cost of cellphone services has fallen nearly 30 percent since 1998, when the Bureau of Labor Statistics began tracking such rates. Today, a cellphone user can get large ''buckets'' of calling minutes in plans starting as low as $30 a month, and many include long-distance service and free calls at night and on weekends, noted Allan Keiter, president of MyRatePlan.com, a Web site that compares wireless plans. In most cases, he added, features like caller ID and voice mail are considered standard in wireless plans but as extras on local land-line service.
 Wireless providers keep upping the ante. In late January, Verizon Wireless announced that it would allow unlimited calling between its subscribers. AT&T Wireless does the same. Cingular Wireless quickly introduced a similar plan, limiting the calls to 6,000 minutes a month. 
 Local phone companies, though, say they are not afraid that subscribers will cut their land lines en masse. And in many cases, the local companies have ownership stakes in wireless carriers anyhow. 
 Jim Smith, a spokesman for Verizon Communications, which owns a controlling stake of Verizon Wireless, said the number of customers who had transferred their home numbers to wireless was minuscule. Michael Coe, a spokesman for SBC Communications in San Antonio, agreed there had not been ''a noticeable impact.'' (SBC and BellSouth own Cingular Wireless in a joint venture.)
 STILL, a survey by the Yankee Group last year of nearly 2,500 wireless subscribers suggested that the all-wireless movement was gaining some momentum. Four percent of the respondents said they did not have a home phone in 2003, up from 3 percent in 2002, and 15 percent planned to replace their land-line phone within five years. (Mr. Guy estimated that 2 percent of all American households now have no home phone service and rely only on wireless.) 
 Some local phone companies have been offering incentives to keep customers. SBC, through Cingular Wireless, recently introduced FastForward service, which reroutes all cellular calls to the subscribers' home numbers whenever they drop their mobile handset into a $40 cradle that doubles as a phone charger. The service costs $2.99 a month or is free with some packages. 
 Some people may be reluctant to cut the cord, however, after hearing about other consumers' problems in doing so. Since number portability began, nearly 5,000 consumer complaints have been filed with the F.C.C. Five percent had to do with land-line-to-wireless number transfers, it said. 
 Although Ms. Broemsen said she was happy she went wireless, she said it took several weeks and many phone calls to switch her home phone number from SBC to Nextel Communications, her wireless carrier.
 Neither company took responsibility for the delays. Dennis Koenig, a spokesman for SBC, said it had never received an order request from Nextel concerning Ms. Broemsen's service. Nextel said only that transferring a land-line number to a wireless phone could take four weeks ''due to system processing with land-line telephone carriers.'' 
 Besides dealing with delays, consumers should consider other factors before disconnecting their land lines, according to telecommunications industry experts:
 Although consolidation is likely to improve service, land-line service still beats wireless in quality and reliability. The experts suggest testing a cellphone service to make sure it works throughout a home before signing up. Most wireless providers offer 15- to 30-day money-back guarantees to test coverage; usually, customers are liable only for the minutes used. 
 Future mergers may bring headaches, at least initially. Consumer groups are already warning customers of AT&T Wireless and Cingular to brace for problems -- like billing errors and difficulties in reaching customer service representatives -- that typically occur when two large companies combine operations. 
 Internet connections may be affected. Those who get access to the Internet via a phone modem or D.S.L. may have to find an alternative like a cable modem or a satellite Internet connection. 
 Cellphone batteries need recharging. Cellphones with color screens, for example, may require recharging after about 90 minutes of talk time, said Scott Ellison, an analyst at IDC, a research firm in Framingham, Mass.
 Wireless plans often require a contract. Most cellphone providers make customers sign one- or two-year agreements to get the best deals on plans and phones, with penalties for canceling early. Land-line phone service usually requires no contracts.
 Land-line phones are generally better for emergencies. Police and fire departments can pinpoint a caller's location when an emergency call is made on a land line. While wireless phone companies have been required to adopt a similar service across their networks, Mr. Guy of the Yankee Group said that it would be a year or so before the service was rolled out nationally.
 One cellphone may not be enough for a household. Buying a wireless phone for everyone at home may be too expensive. An increasing number of plans, though, offer free phones and a large amount of minutes that can be shared by family members.
 Land-line service is better for local calling. Despite the high numbers of calling minutes that wireless companies are promoting in their plans, most land-line plans offer unlimited local phone calls -- the bulk of the calls made by most consumers. Wireless companies typically charge local calls as part of the minutes used. The average consumer makes 700 to 800 minutes of local and long-distance calls a month, according to industry estimates. Industry analysts suggest that consumers who are considering going wireless keep a log of all their local and long-distance calls for one or two months to calculate how many minutes they use. That will help determine which plan is best for them, since it can be expensive for wireless customers who go over their allotted minutes. (And remember that incoming calls on wireless phones are typically charged as minutes used.) 
 JORDAN J. BALLOR, 25, a theology student from Kentwood, Mich., said he understood the drawbacks of going totally wireless. He was told by T-Mobile that the transfer of his home phone number to his mobile phone could take up to 90 days before it was completed. But his decision, he added, came down to dollars and cents. He said his wife, Amy, 23, an administrative assistant for a publishing company in Grand Rapids, wanted a high-speed Internet connection at their home but could not afford that service on top of their home phone and cellular bills. So when number portability became an option, the couple started the process of switching to wireless phone service and getting a cable modem for the Internet.
 The couple had spent about $45 a month for land-line service and $25 a month for cellphone service, for a total of $70. (They did not subscribe to an Internet service.) They signed up for a family cellphone plan from T-Mobile at $49.99 and added cable modem service at $42. So, for $20 more a month, they will add high-speed Internet to their mix of telecommunications services. 
 ''We will be able to keep our home phone number,'' Mr. Ballor said, adding, ''We are getting a lot more now for spending a comparable amount of money.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Melanie Broemsen switched her home number to a cellphone, which she now uses as her sole phone service. She says it saves money. (Photo by Haraz Ghanbari for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (88%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); CITIES (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH (67%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (67%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Cellular Telephones; Finances

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (94%); AT&T INC (91%); YANKEE GROUP (52%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: Eve Tahmincioglu

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



543 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7; Investing

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Best Foreign Stock? Here Are Some Nominees

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
NOW that foreign stocks and currencies have produced spectacular returns for American investors for more than a year, overseas markets are far from cheap. Buyers may want to be especially picky after such a run, but there is no shortage of suggestions about what those picks should be. 
 Following are selections from fund managers, analysts and financial advisers who specialize in foreign markets. They were asked to name their top stock for the medium to long term, the only restriction being that the choice must be listed on an American market for easy trading. (All of the companies they mentioned trade as American depository receipts on the New York Stock Exchange.)
 Jason James, head of global equity strategy at HSBC in London, recommended Vodafone, the mobile telephone service giant based in Britain. The company holds a 45 percent stake in Verizon Wireless and was a top contender for AT&T Wireless, which has agreed to be acquired by Cingular Wireless for nearly $41 billion in cash. 
 Mr. James said that the overall industry was reviving after several dismal years and that Vodafone, which lost about 75 percent of its market value after the tech bubble popped, was still trading about 60 percent below its peak and stood to do better than most if the recovery continued. ''As the only mobile phone operator with a reasonable claim to be genuinely global, it has a significant competitive advantage in attracting high-end customers,'' he said. ''I also believe that the growth potential of the mobile business as a whole is being underestimated.''
 Mr. James said mobile phone companies were shifting from a defensive to an aggressive posture, a change revealed in the scramble to acquire AT&T Wireless. ''The industry has concentrated on paying down debt in the last few years, rather than chasing growth opportunities,'' he said. ''That priority is likely to change now that the debt situation has come under control. Vodafone is likely to show powerful dividend growth over the next few years as its huge cash flows finally start to be paid out to investors.''
 Investors factored in far too much growth in calculating the value of Vodafone and its rivals a few years ago, Mr. James said. Now, he said, they may expect too little.
 ''In European telecoms, we are back to valuations seen in the early 1990's, when the sector was viewed as a boring utility,'' Mr. James said. ''And, indeed, many clients do assert that it is a boring utility again. So I don't think that the market is overestimating growth anymore -- quite the opposite.'' 
 Vodafone's A.D.R.'s have gained 38 percent over the last 12 months.

Two Votes for Nokia
 Fiona Page, a manager of European portfolios at Britannic Asset Management in Glasgow, likes another leader in telecommunications: Nokia, the cellphone maker based in Finland. Nokia raised sales forecasts for the year in January, sending its stock up 13 percent in a day as analysts increased earnings estimates.
 Ms. Page said that she owned Nokia before the pleasant surprise lured masses of investors. ''It has had a very strong start to the year, and the upgrades confirm our view,'' she said.
 Underlying Nokia's appeal are its economies of scale as the global leader, combined with interest in a new generation of phones with color screens and cameras. Demand for the latest technology has helped to halt a slide in average selling prices for its phones. The company is also having stronger-than-expected growth in its other main business, telephone network infrastructure. This business had been running at a break-even pace, she said, but now has profit margins of 12 percent. The company's A.D.R.'s are up 61.2 percent in the last 12 months.
 Bill Blevins, managing director of Blevins Franks International, a large firm of financial advisers in London, also picked Nokia, citing its new repertoire of fancy phones. He said he also admired the company's ability to hold on to its leadership position.
 ''Nokia has proven to be resilient and innovative in the face of increasing competition and has a number of new-generation developments expected to come on stream in 2004, which is likely to increase their market share and long-term profitability,'' he said. ''Nokia has successfully developed a public perception and market position of the provider you cannot ignore before you decide whatever you eventually buy.''
 He cautioned anyone who wants a stock portfolio with a large, steady income stream to look elsewhere. 
 ''This is not a share for dividend seekers, but for those looking for longer-term capital growth,'' Mr. Blevins said. ''This is not a short-term punt, but a decent-quality medium-to-long-term buy.''

A Publisher's Online Strength
 Ken Cox, a fund manager in Edinburgh for the Franklin Templeton Group, suggested Reed Elsevier, the educational materials publisher, which he said should be viewed as a stealth technology company. 
 Investors should focus on the fact that the company generates nearly $2 billion a year in Internet sales, he said. ''Demand for their products is strong,'' he said. ''These are essential publications for the legal, scientific and medical industries; it's a steady market.''
 Despite the growth of its Internet business and investors' renewed affection for technology stocks, Reed Elsevier ''has been left behind, as if it has got some kind of problem,'' Mr. Cox said. ''But,'' he added, ''it hasn't.''
 There are two ways to invest. Like Royal Dutch/Shell and Unilever, Reed Elsevier is an operating company owned jointly by holding companies in the Netherlands and Britain, each also named Reed Elsevier. The Dutch stock often trades at a discount to its British equivalent, Mr. Cox said. The A.D.R. of the Dutch stock, trading under the ticker symbol ENL, has gained 38.6 percent over the last 12 months. The A.D.R. of its English cousin trades under the symbol RUK and is up 31.2 percent over the same period.

Mixing One's Drinks
 Hugh Young, who works in Singapore as head of global equities for Aberdeen Asset Management, recommended Coca-Cola Femsa, which he said was the largest Coca-Cola bottling company in Latin America and a business that has ''a good franchise and great cash flow.'' 
 After describing its virtues, he proposed an alternative for investors who want a less focused enterprise and do not mind mixing their drinks. ''Maybe more interesting, when I think of it, is Coke Femsa's parent, Femsa itself,'' he said. ''You get the Coke business, plus beer, plus a chain of convenience stores, all professionally managed.''
 Femsa, or Fomento Economico Mexicano S.A., makes the Dos Equis and Sol beer brands. Femsa's A.D.R.'s have risen 33 percent over the last 12 months; Coke Femsa's A.D.R.'s have gained 35.7 percent.

A Beverage Giant in Brazil
 Alan Nesbit, deputy head of global emerging market equities in the London office of First State Investments, an Australian fund manager, picked a similar company, but farther south: Companhia de Bebidas das Americas, the Brazilian beverage producer known as AmBev. It has been able to generate strong earnings growth in a fairly staid industry by using its huge size to establish an overwhelming market presence throughout South America, while cutting operating costs, Mr. Nesbit said. Its A.D.R.'s are up 67.8 percent over the last year.
 Mr. Nesbit said AmBev was the fifth-largest brewer in the world and the dominant Brazilian beverage company, with 70 percent of the beer market and 17 percent of the soft drink market. It is also growing in Argentina, Peru, Venezuela, Uruguay, Paraguay and Central America, he added.
 Mr. Nesbit said the company was ''focused on brand positioning, marketing and distribution strategies in order to maintain growth and enhance profitability.'' It has been able to raise prices well beyond the rate of inflation, he said, and has been developing premium beer brands and improving product distribution. AmBev's operating earnings are growing about 15 percent a year, adjusted for inflation, and the stock trades at a low valuation of slightly more than 10 times earnings, he said.


A Global Telephone Play

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Coca-Cola Femsa plant in Apizaco, Mexico. The company's parent makes a range of beverages including Dos Equis and Sol beer. (Photo by Bloomberg News)
 The production line at a Nokia cellphone handset factory. Interest in new phones with color screens and built-in cameras is making the company's future look brighter. (Photo by Nokia via Bloomberg News)Chart: ''The Grass Was Greener''Stocks overseas, in dollar terms, have outperformed equities in the United States over the past year.Graph tracks MSCI Europe Australasia and Far East stock index* and S.& P. 500 index from January 2003 to February 2004.*Adjusted for government ownership of company stocks(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (74%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (74%); DIVIDENDS (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); BONDS (73%) Stocks and Bonds; Foreign Investments

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (96%); AT&T INC (93%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (84%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (83%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (93%); VOD (NASDAQ) (84%); VOD (LSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (96%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (93%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (50%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



544 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: New System Begins Rerouting U.S. Aid For Poor Countries

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21 

 BODY:
The United States is now plunging into a fundamental overhaul of its assistance to developing nations, demanding that applicants for a rich new source of financing prove their worthiness. Already, countries from Bolivia to Bangladesh are competing to be among the winners.
 This month, the board of the new Millennium Challenge Account met for the first time to lay the groundwork for grants that President Bush has promised will total $5 billion annually by 2008. In the first year, perhaps just 15 nations will win awards. 
 The program is ambitious. If fully financed, the Millennium Challenge Account would reflect close to a doubling of the American aid that goes primarily to promote development in poor countries, analysts say. It would represent an overall increase in foreign aid of nearly 9 percent. 
 But the new account is already altering traditional aid flows. All but five countries in Latin America, for example, are ineligible for the Millennium Challenge because their per capita incomes are too high. 
 At the same time, because of cuts proposed in overall foreign aid to the region, some of these nations, like El Salvador and the Dominican Republic, could experience reductions of 10 percent in development aid in the fiscal year 2005, which begins Oct. 1.
 African countries like Senegal and Ghana that respect civil liberties stand to benefit under the new program, according to budget analysts; the war-ravaged nations of Sudan and Somalia, however, do not.
 The new account, like a second new program, the president's five-year, $15 billion global effort to fight AIDS, is up against foreign aid spending constrained by tight budgets and unusually heavy outlays on assistance to Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 Critics of the Millennium Challenge Account are warning that it may produce inequities, handsomely rewarding a handful of nations while leaving some of the most economically needy countries to vie for much smaller amounts of traditional aid. 
 Advocates say the two initiatives are prototypes in a broad administration effort to retool the foreign aid system, which spends nearly $18 billion a year on projects ranging from feeding programs to state-to-state economic support. 
 Representative Henry J. Hyde, the Illinois Republican who is the chairman of the International Relations Committee and an important backer of the new approach, wants to place a performance-driven Republican imprint on such aid, which, until recently, was denounced by some of his colleagues as ''pouring money down a rat hole.''
 That kind of Congressional distaste for foreign aid, which traditionally suffered in favor of spending on domestic programs, has eased greatly since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, which highlighted the dangers posed by weak and neglected states, Mr. Hyde's aides said.
 ''For too long, U.S. foreign assistance programs have been adrift without an overall strategy, and without reasonable standards of accountability,'' Mr. Hyde said. The Millennium Challenge Account and the AIDS fund can serve as models for future reforms in foreign aid, he said.
 ''How we broaden these efforts to include more of our foreign aid programs will be an important legislative challenge of the coming months and years,'' he added.
 But some advocates for development and relief agencies accuse the administration of turning its back on some of the neediest countries to pay for the new strategy. 
 Mary E. McClymont, the chief executive officer of InterAction, the largest alliance of American-based relief groups like CARE and Save the Children, said the administration, in its new budget proposal, had cut $400 million from traditional aid and development accounts -- including money for child survival and family planning -- to defray its new costs.
 ''The administration's budget is robbing Peter to pay Paul,'' she said. ''The Millennium Challenge Account will fund select, top-performing countries. That is good. But what about all the other poorer, weaker countries that could become failed states?''
 Administration officials contend that they have not raided the budget to pay for the new programs. Indeed, Andrew S. Natsios, the administrator of the Agency for International Development, said in an interview that his budget had nearly doubled, to $14.2 billion, since 2001. But much of that increase reflects rebuilding in Afghanistan and Iraq.
 Mr. Natsios said the agency, a popular target of cost-cutting Republicans in the 1990's, had found a new purpose in preparing second-tier candidates to qualify for the Millennium Challenge fund. At the same time, he said, A.I.D. will not abandon its traditional support for failing states, but it will be more realistic in its expectations.
 ''Anybody who expects us to put Somalia back together again -- acting alone -- is foolish,'' he said.
 The Bush administration has identified 63 countries that would be eligible to compete for the first round of of Millennium Challenge funds because their per capita income levels are below $1,415 and they are not precluded from receiving aid by being on the State Department's list of terrorism sponsors.
 To qualify for the funds, countries must demonstrate, in the president's words, that they are ''ruling justly, investing in their people, and establishing economic freedom.''
 The administration will use 16 independent indicators, many of them from outside government, to measure the merits of a candidate.
 For example, a private organization like Transparency International could rate the applicants on corruption; the World Bank Institute, on rule of law; Freedom House, on political rights; and the Heritage Foundation, on trade policy.
 ''It's pretty rigorous,'' said Alan P. Larson, the State Department's top economics official, who is running the account until the president's expected nominee, Paul Applegarth, is confirmed. Mr. Larson noted that the board would use indexes that were publicly available.
 Another innovation with the new program is that the United States will not dictate how money is spent.
 ''This would put the recipient countries much more in the driver's seat,'' said Steven Radelet, a former Treasury official who works at the Center for Global Development. Countries would sign three-year contracts with the United States, and the effectiveness of their efforts would be judged by the results.
 Some development specialists worry that the process may diminish accountability. 
 ''You're putting a lot of faith in these countries to figure out how to use this money well,'' said Thomas Carothers, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
 Mr. Bush's AIDS initiative seeks to unite a mix of agencies and programs under a single coordinator, Randall L. Tobias, who will present his emergency plan on Monday.
 Mr. Tobias, a former pharmaceutical executive, is expected to outline plans for a rapid expansion of programs in about 15 seriously afflicted countries, emphasizing prevention, care and treatment and spending $10 billion in new financing over five years for a total of $15 billion. 
 While the financing is welcomed by advocates for people with AIDS, critics have questioned whether a separate bureaucracy is necessary when there is already a Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.
 The administration, which has asked for $2.8 billion for the AIDS fund for 2005, says it is gearing up to meet the president's goal of $15 billion over five years, though some Congressional Republicans concede that budget deficit concerns will probably scale back both initiatives.
 Some political analysts question whether the United States' commitment will endure beyond the November elections and the current spending spree on antiterrorist strategies.
 ''It remains to be seen whether this is an innovation that has staying power,'' said J. Brian Atwood, the A.I.D. administrator in the Clinton administration.


GRAPHIC: Photo: An Afghan girl waiting with her mother for assistance near the Bagram air base. Spending in Iraq and Afghanistan is squeezing aid budgets. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MILLENNIUM (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); AIDS & HIV (66%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Third World and Developing Countries; Foreign Aid; United States International Relations; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Third World and Developing Countries

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (76%) Christopher Marquis; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); BANGLADESH (92%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); GHANA (79%); SUDAN (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); SOMALIA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); AFRICA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



545 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Live From London, Civilized Cabs

BYLINE: By JIM MOTAVALLI

 BODY:
''ARE these the new city cabs?'' a hopeful passer-by asked on St. Marks Place in the East Village, where the distinctive upright shape of a London taxi was stopping pedestrians in their tracks. 
 If London cabs can make it here, they can make it anywhere, so New Yorkers' positive reactions thrilled the cab's driver, Jeff Nieves, vice president of a Massachusetts company that hopes the English imports can gain a foothold in the United States.
 His cab drew admirers in front of the New York Public Library, and an inquiry from a BBC employee, Naomi Bradford, who was interested in taking clients for rides to give them a taste of old England. Several admirers said they had been in the taxis during visits to Britain and were impressed by the legroom and luggage space. 
 Two young tourists on St. Marks Place were actual Londoners, Hannah McCall and Roisin Wilson. ''In London it would be dirtier, have adverts on the side, no-smoking signs and a notice that if you get sick inside it's a $:10 fine,'' Ms. Wilson said after trying out the back seat.
 The London taxi is steeped in tradition, regulated by the Conditions of Fitness dating to 1679, which applied then to horse-drawn carriages. One of the seemingly quaint conditions -- a requirement that gentlemen passengers be able to keep their top hats on -- dictates the cab's distinctive tall windows and high stance. The 25-foot turning radius required by the Public Carriage Office of London since 1907 (and reaffirmed last year) ensures that the cab is highly maneuverable. The rules are strict for cab drivers, too: they must acquire ''the Knowledge'' of some 320 city routes. 
 The latest design of the London cab, built by LTI Ltd. in Coventry, England, dates to 1997. The rear compartment offers limousine-size accommodations for three passengers, plus two jump seats, one of which swivels out to the curb. In the wood-paneled Executive Sedan driven by Mr. Nieves, passengers recline on leather seats with their own controls for air-conditioning, interior lights and a built-in intercom. 
 The only hint of the taxi's plebeian roots is its extra-firm ride, which jars passengers into taking notice of Manhattan potholes. Mr. Nieves attributes this characteristic to the cab's structural rigidity, a factor in its estimated life span of 500,000 miles.
 Larry Smith started London Taxis North America of Sudbury, Mass., in 2001 after seeing the latest edition of the London classic, the TXII, while on vacation in England. He quickly concluded that it was more accommodating than the American limousine his family had taken to the airport. 
 ''I told them I wanted to market the taxis in the U.S., and they told me they'd heard that before,'' said Mr. Smith, a mechanical engineer who also started the Finagle a Bagel chain in Boston.
 But Mr. Smith persevered where others had failed, ushering the car through the laborious process for American certification, including emissions approval and crash testing. Two versions are offered: the basic taxi and the London Executive Sedan, designed for livery services.
 Others have tried to introduce London taxis in the United States. Austin FX3's were briefly on the road in New York in the early 1950's, and FX4's were tested in Philadelphia later in that decade. In the mid-1980's, the London Coach Company of Mount Clemens, Mich., imported FX4's without engines, fitting them with Ford Pinto motors. This attempt to market the taxis also failed. Some FX4's ended up in private hands, like one with 250,000 miles on the odometer that belongs to Murray Jackson, a Canadian taxi enthusiast in Ottawa.
 To pass muster in America, the latest taxi leaves the factory with left-hand drive, a redesigned fuel system and side marker lights. A driver air bag and extra insulation are added in the United States. Three years since the company was founded, London Taxis has put more than 100 vehicles on American roads. It hopes to sell 600 in the next year.
 The basic taxi costs $49,000, and the executive version is in the mid-$50,000 range -- steep in comparison with a $24,000 Ford Crown Victoria cab. So what is the appeal to taxi operators? Mr. Smith said the TXII was the only vehicle in the world currently purpose-built as a taxi, without the need to also serve as ''transportation for soccer moms.'' 
 Mr. Smith added that the cab catered to passenger comfort with easy access through big doors that open at a 90-degree angle and more legroom than a first-class airplane seat. With its built-in ramp, the taxi is also wheelchair accessible and has features for the sight- and hearing-impaired, like yellow grab handles and an intercom tuned for hearing aids.
 Its 2.4-liter turbo-diesel engine, built by Ford, is used in European transit vans. The company promises fuel economy of 24 miles per gallon in the city, 28 on the highway.
 The London taxi benefits from a reservoir of good will generated by frequent visitors to Britain. Elaine Showalter, the feminist author and professor of English at Princeton, has described the London taxi as one of the four best ideas in transportation. In an e-mail message, she called the car a ''luxury liner'' compared with ''the dirty, beat-up New York yellow cab with its two inches of precarious passenger legroom.'' And London cab drivers, she added, ''will discuss politics and sports with you, help you with your luggage, welcome you to the city and call you 'luv.'''
 The beachhead for today's newly immigrated London taxi was Detroit, where a taxi company, Checker Cab, bought three. These were put into service for weddings, airport duty and special events. 
 ''There are a lot of double takes and stares from people when they ride around Detroit,'' said Timothy J. McCarthy, president of Checker Cab. ''People here see it as a unique, novel way to travel, and they like the roominess and special amenities.''
 A dozen London taxis are in use in Ottawa, the Canadian capital. There is a small fleet in Chicago, where they are used in advertising promotions; three in Bronxville, N.Y.; and a handful in the Boston area. London taxis began cruising the steep streets of San Francisco this month. While London Taxis does not now plan to market the taxis in New York City, that remains a possibility. 
 One happy operator is Barry Lynch of Leesburg, Va., a native of England who arrived in the United States when he was 10. Mr. Lynch says his 8-year-old daughter persuaded him to go into the taxi business after he was laid off from a high-tech job. She saw one on a trip to London and proclaimed it the ''coolest car in the world.''
 Mr. Lynch looked into buying a vintage car, then discovered London Taxis. ''The next thing you know, we have one of the first cars coming off the boat,'' he said.
 The cab is in use from 4 to midnight daily, taking passengers to the airport and transporting couples to dinner parties and weddings. ''People smile at you all the time,'' Mr. Lynch said. His repeat business is more than 70 percent, and he now awaits delivery of his second London taxi.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Regal in black, the upright TXII London cab stands out in the taxi-yellow blur of Manhattan streets. This one was only visiting.
 Taxi has a fold-down wheelchair ramp. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%) Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers

ORGANIZATION: London Taxis North America (Co)

PERSON: Larry Smith; Jim Motavalli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ENGLAND (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%) Great Britain; London (Eng); New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



546 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATS

LENGTH: 1575 words

HEADLINE: Leading Candidates Take Different Tacks for Showdown

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, N.Y., Feb. 21 

 BODY:
John Edwards and John Kerry are pursuing sharply different strategies as they gird for the 10-state rush of contests that take place on March 2. Mr. Edwards is focusing on six states in search of an upset to trip up Mr. Kerry's march to the Democratic presidential nomination. Mr. Kerry is pressing in all 10 states, seeking to build a prohibitive lead in delegates, aides said.
 Beyond the state-by-state logistics of dealing with this daunting coast-to-coast sprawl of contests, aides to Mr. Edwards said he would increasingly contrast his style, background and personality with those of Mr. Kerry. In doing so, aides said, Mr. Edwards is seeking to capitalize on what many Democrats have described as Mr. Edwards's superior political skills, and thus directly challenge Mr. Kerry's claim that he is the strongest Democrat the party has to put up against President Bush.
 Mr. Edwards pressed Mr. Kerry on Friday for an intensive schedule of debates in the calculation that a side-by-side television appearance would highlight what even some Kerry aides said was Mr. Edwards's more appealing personality. 
 And in a speech on Saturday morning at Hofstra University here, Mr. Edwards, a senator from North Carolina who lives in Washington, sought to present himself as an outsider who would ''fight for change'' in a Washington political culture he derided. Aides said it would be a recurrent theme as he headed into economically distressed parts of the nation.
 ''The real issue here is who can really inspire people and motivate people in the way that we need to win this election,'' said David Axelrod, a senior adviser to Mr. Edwards. ''You put him on a platform with the other guy and I think there's a real difference: Edwards inspires people. He fires people up. The contrast is there for people to see.''
 Mr. Kerry's advisers said he would seek to sharpen what some aides said had become a an increasingly unfocused campaign appeal, with the candidate coasting on victories in 15 of 17 contests. 
 On Tuesday in Ohio, an aide said, Mr. Kerry will begin a series of speeches on job loss as part of a ''national jobs tour'' as he seeks to push back on a subject Mr. Edwards has raised with success. Not incidentally, Mr. Kerry will be doing this in a battleground state where, should he win the nomination, he is anticipating a spirited battle this fall with Mr. Bush on many of these same issues.
 But more immediately, Mr. Kerry's campaign is spending time and money in all 10 states voting on March 2 in an effort to broaden his lead in delegates and mathematically eliminate Mr. Edwards.
 Under Democratic Party rules, delegates are allocated based on the percentage of votes a candidate wins, meaning that Mr. Kerry will earn delegates even if he loses states. Mr. Kerry now has 497 of the 2,162 delegates needed to win the nomination; Mr. Edwards has 188, putting pressure on him to win increasingly large victories in order to catch up with Mr. Kerry.
 ''The biggest difference between us is we are running a full-bore campaign,'' said Mary Beth Cahill, Mr. Kerry's campaign manager. ''We have organizers on the ground in all 10 states. We are doing it everywhere, and we are not cherry-picking.''
 The contrasting strategies were described in interviews by senior aides as the candidates moved to prepare for what is by far the most challenging day on the nominating calendar. There will be voting from California to New York, resulting in the selection of 1,151 delegates. With Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards now locked in the two-person contest that Mr. Edwards has long pushed for, the day has emerged as a major test of Mr. Edwards's viability.
 The different strategies reflect the different pressures on Mr. Edwards and Mr. Kerry. Mr. Edwards has won just one contest -- in South Carolina, where he was born -- and his aides said he needed to score a series of victories on March 2 in order to continue to present himself as a credible alternative to Mr. Kerry.
 Mr. Edwards is looking to hang on at least through March 9, when there are contests in four Southern states -- Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas -- where his aides said he would enjoy a regional advantage. Mr. Edwards lost to Mr. Kerry by large margins in two other Southern states, Virginia and Tennessee.
 Mr. Kerry's advisers, while increasingly confident of victory, were startled by the extent to which Mr. Edwards managed to turn a six-point loss in Wisconsin into a platform for an unexpectedly well-publicized challenge. The Edwards campaign described it excitedly in a news release as his ''incredible second-place finish in the Wisconsin primary,'' and once again here on Saturday morning, he drew a huge crowd of reporters to hear his short speech at Hofstra.
 This turn in the campaign has given some Kerry advisers pause, they said, both because they have long viewed Mr. Edwards as their strongest barrier to the nomination and because of what several described as Mr. Kerry's own limitations as a candidate, underlined by the memory of the near-collapse of his campaign last fall.
 Mr. Edwards's aides said he had chosen six states to focus on because they include economically troubled regions that they said would be particularly receptive to his attacks on trade policy and to the biographical and stylistic contrasts he is drawing with Mr. Kerry. Those states are Ohio, Georgia, New York, Minnesota, Maryland and California.
 Mr. Edwards plans to begin broadcasting television advertisements on Sunday in Georgia and Ohio, emphasizing his opposition to the North American Free Trade Agreement.
 Mr. Edwards's decision to focus as well on stylistic and biographical differences comes after a week in which Mr. Kerry challenged Mr. Edwards's effort to distinguish himself on free trade. For three weeks Mr. Edwards has criticized Mr. Kerry for voting for Nafta in the Senate in 1993, saying his opponent had supported a policy that cost American jobs. Mr. Edwards was not in the Senate at the time but said he would have voted against it.
 But both men said they would support changes in future trade treaties to protect workers, and Mr. Kerry heralded the support of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. last week as he sought to rebut Mr. Edwards's suggestion that he had embraced anti-labor policies. 
 Mr. Edwards's efforts to knock Mr. Kerry off his perch is, to some extent, complicated by Mr. Edwards's repeated denunciation of candidates who attack other candidates, an admonition he delivered again Saturday morning to a round of applause. And although Mr. Edwards pledged to draw distinctions on issues with Mr. Kerry, his advisers said there were not many differences between the men on issues.
 ''The truth is, in terms of positions they are taking now, our positions may be more nuanced, but they are both Democrats,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''They don't agree on everything, but they agree on a lot of things. If you are looking for differences between them, it transcends issues of difference and gets to style.''
 To that end, Mr. Edwards has been pushing for forums to display his strengths as a speaker and candidate; on Saturday, Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards agreed to a second debate, next Sunday in New York, following one set for Thursday in Los Angeles. Perhaps looking ahead to the general election, Mr. Kerry on Saturday night offered to debatePresident Bush on the ''Vietnam era.''
 Both Edwards and Kerry aides said the debate last Sunday in Milwaukee, which included just 5 Democrats in a field that once included 10, provided a forum for contrast between the two senators and accounted for Mr. Edwards's strong second-place showing.
 ''We have a general rule: The more people see John Edwards the more they like him,'' said Nick Baldick, his campaign manager. ''That came into play in Iowa and Wisconsin.''
 One senior Kerry adviser, asked about that, responded: ''He's likable. Let's concede what is the obvious. There's no two ways about it. Edwards is a handsome, energetic man.''
 Aides to both candidates said they see perils in the weeks ahead, which will take them to some of the most complicated political environments in the nation.
 For example, Mr. Edwards's aides said his effort to criticize Mr. Kerry without appearing to run afoul of his own warning to Democrats against running a negative campaign may be put to the test in New York, a media environment that loves a political fight and that regularly proves, as one Kerry aide said, that ''conflict equals coverage.''
 In California, the image of hundreds of same-sex marriages taking place in San Francisco has made aides to both men wary that they will get drawn into a debate they have assiduously tried to avoid this year. Both Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards say they oppose same-sex marriage but would support some legal protections for same-sex couples.
 And three states, Georgia, Minnesota and Ohio, allow Republicans and independent voters to participate in Democratic primaries. That is a matter of concern to advisers to Mr. Kerry after the vote in Wisconsin, where independents and Republicans were permitted to vote, and tended to support Mr. Edwards.
 Finally, Mr. Kerry's record on Nafta, no matter his effort to address it by lining up the support of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., has clearly dampened the enthusiasm of labor supporters and could complicate his effort to get the kind of turnout he is looking for in states like Ohio. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 2, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 22 about the different strategies planned by John Edwards and John Kerry for today's 10 contests for the Democratic presidential nomination referred incorrectly to the type of election Minnesota will hold. Its votes are cast in caucuses, not in a primary.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); DISMISSALS (67%) Presidential Election of 2004; Primaries; Debating; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); DAVID AXELROD (56%) Adam Nagourney; John (Sen) Edwards; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



547 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE MILITARY

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Offers Bush a Debate On Vietnam And Its Effects

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Feb. 21 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry accused President Bush on Saturday of trying to smear him about his record in Vietnam, his role in the antiwar movement and his commitment to the military, and he challenged Mr. Bush to a debate on the Vietnam era and ''the impact of our experiences on our approaches to presidential leadership.''
 In a letter released late Saturday night, Mr. Kerry said Mr. Bush had ''initiated a widespread attack'' over the past week. He noted that on Saturday morning, Senator Saxby Chambliss, Republican of Georgia, had attacked him as soft on defense in a conference call arranged by the Bush campaign. 
 Mr. Chambliss said in the call, ''When you have a 32-year history of voting to cut defense programs and cut defense systems, folks in Georgia are going to look beyond what he says and look at his voting record.''
 After arriving in Atlanta to campaign for Georgia's March 2 primary, Mr. Kerry said, ''I don't know what it is that these Republicans who didn't serve in any war have against those of us who are Democrats who did.''
 Mr. Kerry's remarks, which he made first in a taped interview for ''This Week'' on ABC -- to be broadcast Sunday -- and then repeated at the airport here on Saturday night, made for one of his most aggressive offensives yet against the president. They indicate that the Vietnam war could well be a major issue in the presidential race if Mr. Kerry wins the nomination.
 Scott Stanzel, a spokesman for the Bush re-election campaign, said Mr. Kerry's letter ''comes after his campaign has run 15 negative attack ads against President Bush.'' Mr. Stanzel said it was ''further evidence that Senator Kerry says one thing and does another.''
 He added, ''We look forward to a spirited debate about the most important issues facing our country, including how to grow the economy and win the war on terror.''
 Mr. Bush's military record has come under attack by some Democrats, who have raised questions about whether he fulfilled his obligations while in the Air National Guard in the early 1970's. Mr. Kerry's suggestion that he and Mr. Bush discuss their ''experiences'' during the Vietnam War was a none-too-subtle jab at the president.
 The White House has released hundreds of pages of Mr. Bush's military files in an effort to prove he showed up for training at a base in Alabama during that period.
 Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Kerry specifically cited Mr. Chambliss and Vice President Dick Cheney and other Republicans who, he said, were questioning the patriotism of Democrats who challenge the Bush administration's policy in Iraq. He called it a common tactic. ''This is what they did to Max Cleland,'' he said.
 Mr. Chambliss defeated Mr. Cleland, a Democratic incumbent who lost three limbs in Vietnam, in a 2002 race in which he ran television advertisements showing pictures of Mr. Cleland, Osama bin Laden and Saddam Hussein to suggest that Mr. Cleland was soft on defense. Mr. Kerry has often said that Mr. Cleland's failure to hit back hard cost him his seat, and on Saturday he appeared to be showing he would not make the same mistake.
 He noted that Mr. Bush campaigned for Mr. Chambliss in 2002 and ''didn't say a word'' about his tactics.
 ''Well, I'm going to say a word about it,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''I don't think that has a place in American politics. I'd ask the people of Georgia what more Max Cleland has to leave on a battlefield to prove his commitment to the defense of our nation.''
 As Mr. Kerry spoke, his campaign released the letter it said had been sent to the White House.
 ''As you well know, Vietnam was a very difficult and painful period in our nation's history, and the struggle for our veterans continues,'' Mr. Kerry wrote. ''So, it has been hard to believe that you would choose to re-open these wounds for your personal political gain. But, that is what you have chosen to do.''
 He added: ''America deserves a better debate. If you want to debate the Vietnam era, and the impact of our experiences on our approaches to presidential leadership, I am prepared to do so.''
 ''This is not a debate to be distorted through your $100 million dollar campaign fund,'' he continued. ''This is a debate that should be conducted face to face.''
 Mr. Kerry has campaigned heavily on his combat record in the war, in which he won the Silver Star, the Bronze Star and three Purple Hearts as the skipper of Navy swift boats on the Mekong Delta.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry, joined in Atlanta by former Senator Max Cleland, accused Republicans of distorting his positions. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); TERRORISM (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Debating; Vietnam War; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (79%); DICK CHENEY (59%) David M Halbfinger; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Saxby (Sen) Chambliss

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



548 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: THE RECONSTRUCTION

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: American Companies Rebuilding Iraq Find They Are Having to Start From the Ground Up

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21 

 BODY:
When government contractors took on the task of rebuilding Iraq's hospital system last year, they were distressed to learn that nursing staffs no longer existed.
 Under Saddam Hussein, the contractors discovered, hospitals were forced to fire all their nurses to save money.
 ''They said nurses weren't needed because family members could do that,'' said George A. Laudato, a vice president of Abt Associates Inc., which won a contract to repair Iraq's health care system. Abt found a few nurses working as janitors. 
 When another contractor took on the job of rebuilding Iraq's primary and secondary school systems, the workers found to their surprise that renovating the buildings and revising the curriculums would offer no help to a large percentage of the school-age children.
 In recent years, several hundred thousand children had dropped out or had been pulled out of school ''because they weren't learning anything, and schools were nasty, filthy places,'' said Robert Gordon, director of operations for Creative Associates International, the company involved. Neither his company nor the United States government had been aware of this problem.
 After still more federally financed contractors finished creating local government councils in all 18 of Iraq's provinces last year, a first step toward democracy, they found that many of the new government officers were unaccustomed to thinking and acting independently.
 ''For most of them, there is still a sense that they are waiting for someone up above to give them permission to do things,'' said Aaron Williams, an executive with RTI International, the consulting firm charged with starting the councils.
 Ten months into the reconstruction effort in Iraq, government agencies and private companies have defined their tasks and report they are making notable progress in many areas. But they have also grown to realize that their missions are far more difficult and complex than anyone had anticipated.
 ''This is the biggest thing we have ever done, absolutely,'' said Maj. Gen. Robert H. Griffen, deputy chief of the Army Corps of Engineers. ''In terms of speed, in terms of needs, there's never been anything like it.''
 John W. Dower, a professor of history at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an expert on the reconstruction of Japan, noted that no such project since the 1940's had approached in scale and complexity the one under way in Iraq, and ''the money spent in Japan was not as big as in Iraq, even in today's dollars.''
 Using more than $20 billion budgeted since last winter, the United States is undertaking to rebuild bridges, roads, oil fields, ports, railroads, sewer systems, airports, postal services and telephone networks. Government agencies are trying to revamp the judicial, economic and law-enforcement systems as well as rebuild the army. 
 Reconstruction workers spent most of last year making emergency repairs and assessing the problems. In almost every case, the workers said, they determined that the jobs were studded with difficulties no one had anticipated.
 ''We operate in an ongoing basis in 40 or 50 countries, and every reconstruction project presents certain challenges,'' Randy Harl, president and chief executive officer of Kellogg, Brown & Root, said in a telephone interview. ''But Iraq is unique because you face all of the challenges at the same time. All of them.'' Mr. Harl's company, a subsidiary of Halliburton, won two contracts to repair Iraq's oil fields.
 Chris Mumm, Iraq project director for the Bechtel Corporation, said his company ''has never done a job like this, where all the infrastructure is interrelated.'' Bechtel won contracts to repair Iraq's electricity network, water and sewage systems, school buildings and other public services. 
 ''This is the first time we have seen it in the raw like this,'' he added in a telephone interview from the Iraqi capital. To fix the sewer system, he said, first the electric system had to be repaired. To run the power generators, fuel production or importation and transport had to be arranged. ''It is all tied together in a way I have never seen before.''
 Mr. Mumm and Mr. Harl, not surprisingly, noted that security, for both workers and infrastructure, was a challenge. For equipment, Mr. Harl said, the rule was ''the moment you are not there, it is gone, plucked clean, truly like the turkey carcass after Thanksgiving.''
 Development Alternatives Inc., a consulting firm, won a contract to restore Iraqi agriculture but found that the first steps were more basic than the government had anticipated, including opening veterinary clinics, importing medicines and restoring the seed industry.
 Mr. Mumm said he believed that his company's work rebuilding Iraq's electric and water utilities might not hold up unless the utility managers adopted modern operating procedures.
 ''We opened the cupboards at the electricity ministry, and they were empty,'' he said. ''There were no operating procedures, no standards, nothing. They didn't operate like a utility. They just had a lot of people who knew about the plants and kept them running because Saddam Hussein would kill them if the power went out.''
 Mr. Mumm has been in Iraq since last May, and in his view, ''it will take 5 or 10 years'' before the utilities can be operated efficiently.
 Creative Associates, the company involved with education reform, foresees a similar time frame for rebuilding an education system. Creative has begun a pilot remedial program for 600 of the dropouts.
 ''But the challenge is not just in the classroom,'' Mr. Gordon, the company's operations director, said. ''It is speaking to the parents, food, clothing, lots of things -- not unlike the challenges we have in the inner city'' in the United States.
 Creative also found that even Iraqi students who remained in school suffered under a system of autocratic teaching methods that discouraged students from asking questions or pursuing independent thought. 
 Mr. Laudato of Abt found that some hospitals in southern Iraq, whose Shiite residents had been persecuted, ''were as bad as anything I have seen in sub-Saharan Africa.'' 
 ''Pools of blood on the floor,'' he continued. ''Lines and needles reused. I saw a ward of heart attack victims in Basra, eight of them on gurneys, some of them twitching, and they had no equipment to do anything for them, not even an IV.'' 
 But even with problems like that, Mr. Laudato said Iraqi patience for American involvement was thin.
 ''Almost to a person, they told us: 'We're happy you're here. We need your help. But we hope you can do it quickly and then get out.' '' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (91%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); BUDGETS (77%); FAMILY (76%); ENGINEERING (74%); HEALTH CARE (73%); CONTRACT AWARDS (73%); ARMIES (73%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); TERRORISM (59%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (56%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Terrorism

COMPANY: ABT ASSOCIATES INC (72%); CREATIVE ASSOCIATES INTERNATIONAL INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (72%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%) Joel Brinkley

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); JAPAN (92%) Iraq; United States; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



549 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE VOTERS

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Unhappy Bush Voters Weigh a Switch

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: BEACHWOOD, Ohio 

 BODY:
In the 2000 presidential election, Bill Flanagan a semiretired newspaper worker, happily voted for George W. Bush. But now, shaking his head, he vows, ''Never again.''
 ''The combination of lies and boys coming home in body bags is just too awful,'' Mr. Flanagan said, drinking coffee and reading newspapers at the local mall. ''I could vote for Kerry. I could vote for any Democrat unless he's a real dummy.'' 
 Mr. Flanagan is hardly alone, even though polls show that the overwhelming majority of Republicans who supported Mr. Bush in 2000 will do so again in November. In dozens of random interviews around the country, independents and Republicans who said they voted for Mr. Bush in 2000 say they intend to vote for the Democratic presidential candidate this year. Some polls are beginning to bolster the idea of those kind of stirrings among Republicans and independents.
 That could change, of course, once the Bush campaign begins pumping millions of dollars into advertising and making the case for his re-election.
 But even as Democratic and Republican strategists and pollsters warned that a shift could be transitory, they also said it could prove to be extraordinarily consequential in a year when each side is focused on turning out its most loyal voters.
 ''The strong Republicans are with him,'' a senior aide to Senator John Kerry said of Mr. Bush. ''But there are independent-minded Republicans among whom he is having serious problems.''
 ''With the nation so polarized,'' he added, ''the defections of a few can make a big difference.''
 In the interviews, many of those potential ''crossover'' voters said they supported the invasion of Iraq but had come to see the continuing involvement there as too costly and without clear objectives.
 Many also said they believed that the Bush administration had not been honest about its reasons for invading Iraq and were concerned about the failure to find unconventional weapons. Some of these people described themselves as fiscal conservatives who were alarmed by deficit spending, combined with job losses at home. Many are shocked to find themselves switching sides. 
 While sharing a sandwich at the stylish Beachwood Mall in this Cleveland suburb, one older couple -- a judge and a teacher -- reluctantly divulged their secret: though they are stalwarts in the local Republican Party, they are planning to vote Democratic this year.
 ''I feel like a complete traitor, and if you'd asked me four months ago, the answer would have been different,'' said the judge, after assurances of anonymity. ''But we are really disgusted. It's the lies, the war, the economy. We have very good friends who are staunch Republicans, who don't even want to hear the name George Bush anymore.''
 In 2000, Mr. Bush won here in Ohio with 50 percent of the popular vote, as against 46.5 percent for Al Gore.
 George Meagher, a Republican who founded and now runs the American Military Museum in Charleston, S.C., said he threw his ''heart and soul'' into the Bush campaign four years ago. He organized veterans to attend campaign events, including the campaign's kickoff speech at the Citadel. He even has photographs of himself and his wife with Mr. Bush.
 ''Given the outcome and how dissatisfied I am with the administration, it's hard to think about now,'' he said. ''People like me, we're all choking a bit at not supporting the president. But when I think about 500 people killed and what we've done to Iraq. And what we've done to our country. I mean, we're already $2 trillion in debt again.''
 A nationwide CBS News poll released Feb. 16 found that 11 percent of people who voted for Mr. Bush in 2000 now say they will vote for the Democratic candidate this fall. But there was some falloff among those who voted against him as well. Five percent of people who said they voted for Mr. Gore in 2000 say this time they will back Mr. Bush.
 On individual issues, the poll found some discontent among Republicans but substantial discontent among independents. For instance, on handling the nation's economy, 19 percent of Republicans and 56 percent of independents said they disapproved of the job Mr. Bush was doing.
 ''As the president's job rating has fallen, his Democratic supporters have pulled away first, then the independents and now we're starting to see a bit of erosion among the Republicans, who used to support him pretty unanimously,'' said Evans Witt, the chief executive of Princeton Survey Research Associates. ''If 10 to 15 percent of Republicans do not support him anymore, that is not trivial for Bush's re-election.''
 But Matthew Dowd, the Bush campaign's chief strategist, suggested that no one in the White House was worried about Mr. Bush's losing much of his base. He said polls continued to show that the president was enjoying the support of 90 percent of Republicans.
 Many of those interviewed said that they had experienced a growing disenchantment with the conflict in Iraq over many months, but that only recently had they decided to change their votes. 
 A number said they had been deeply disturbed by recent statements of David A. Kay, the former United Nations weapons inspector, who said he was skeptical about administration claims that Iraq possessed unconventional weapons. 
 ''The lack of evidence on Iraq has really hurt him, and the economy here is bad -- there's a lot of unemployment in the mills,'' said Phyllis Pierce, who is in the steel business in Cleveland and recently decided not to vote for Mr. Bush again. 
 John Scarnado, a sales manager from Austin, Tex., who voted for Mr. Bush in 2000, said he would vote for Mr. Kerry if the senator won the Democratic nomination.
 ''I'm upset about Iraq and the vice president and his affiliation with Halliburton,'' said Mr. Scarnado, a registered Republican who said that he had not always voted along party lines. ''I think the Bush administration is coming out to look like old boy politics, and I don't have a good feel about that.''
 Many of those wavering in their loyalty to Mr. Bush were middle-class voters who said that his tax relief programs had disproportionately helped the wealthy.
 ''I voted for him, but it seems like he's just taking care of his rich buddies now,'' said Mike Cross, a farmer from Londonderry, N.H., adding, ''I'm not a great fan of John Kerry, but I've had enough of President Bush.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 24, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about people who supported George Bush in the 2000 election and are considering a vote for the Democratic candidate this year referred incorrectly to George Meagher, who voiced dissatisfaction with the administration. As noted on Feb. 3 in an earlier account of his comments in the same interview, for an article about veterans leaning toward Senator John Kerry, Mr. Meagher is an independent, not a Republican.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Flanagan has abandoned his support of President Bush.
John Scarnado, a Republican from Austin, Tex., voted for Mr. Bush in 2000 but now says he would vote for Senator John Kerry.
 Phyllis Pierce, left, with Leslie Kohn at the mall in Beachwood, Ohio. ''The lack of evidence on Iraq,'' Ms. Pierce says, has hurt President Bush. (Photographs by David Maxwell for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); TERRORISM (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (66%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (66%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004; Political Advertising; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Atomic Weapons; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004; Political Advertising; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Atomic Weapons

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOHN KERRY (89%) Elisabeth Rosenthal; George W (Pres) Bush; Elisabeth Rosenthal; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



550 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; PT2; Column 1; Fashions of The Times Magazine; Pg. 112

LENGTH: 2263 words

HEADLINE: Delta Force

BYLINE: By Horacio Silva. 
Horacio Silva is the executive editor of www.hintmag.com.

 BODY:
In 1987, Bette Davis appeared on the David Letterman show wearing a skintight dress with buttons sewn into a heart-shaped bodice. She demanded a close-up of the dress, designed by her friend Patrick Kelly -- an American in Paris who referred to himself as a ''black Lucille Ball'' and charmed his adopted city with his witty Southern-fried take on Continental glamour.
 Davis then gave Letterman a present from the designer -- one of the little black doll brooches he bought by the hundreds to give away as a token of his friendship -- and pointed out that Kelly was in New York looking for a financial backer. The next day, Kelly heard from the redoubtable Linda Wachner, president of the fashion conglomerate Warnaco. Wachner had been in discussions with Kelly for weeks, but her interest was waning before Davis's on-air plug. No longer -- Kelly had his backer. 
 Incredibly hardworking and determined, Kelly, who died at 35 in 1990, had a will to power that would have made Nietzsche look like a slacker -- at Kelly's memorial, the Rev. Eugene Callender called the designer's achievements ''a dramatic demonstration of the can-do consciousness.'' But Kelly's enchanted ascent, from selling his designs on the street to appearing in the world's leading department stores, was also made possible by fairy godmothers like Davis. His considerable charm certainly didn't hurt. One critic gushed that Kelly's ''infectious joie de vivre could power a Mississippi River steamboat.'' Even the French fell under his spell: in 1988, they invited the outsider in the oversize dungarees and atomic-colored high tops to become the first American member of the Chambre Syndicale, the august governing body of French fashion.
 ''Everyone loved Patrick,'' says the designer Sonia Rykiel, who lobbied for Kelly's induction. ''He was charming, intelligent, funny and so talented. The way he played with buttons is still being copied around the world.''
 As much as he liked to design with buttons -- a stylistic allusion to the colorful constellations that his grandmother would sew on his shirts to disguise the fact that the buttons did not match -- Kelly also liked to push them. His grinning golliwog logo, watermelon prints and decision to pose as a Southern caricature flanked by two models in blackface for Annie Leibovitz in Vanity Fair upset those who didn't share his sense of irony. (He referred to the Ku Klux Klan, which occasionally sent him hate mail, as ''the Cha Cha Cha,'' and told one journalist, ''Honey, what do they know about fashion except for a white robe?'')
 From April 17 through Sept. 5, the Brooklyn Museum of Art is staging the first exhibition of Kelly's designs and his personal collection of black memorabilia, surveying his legacy as a fashion force, media provocateur and cultural producer. ''Patrick was a great designer and an even more important cultural figure,'' says Thelma Golden of the Studio Museum in Harlem and the exhibition's guest curator. ''He was a child of the South, and his success was such a Jackie Robinson moment for the black community.''
 His designs spoke in a thick Southern accent and referred to the flamboyant Sunday-best styles of the black women he grew up around. (''From one dress in my Baptist church,'' he was fond of saying, ''you could do a whole collection.'') But in a country still riven by race, Kelly's collection of black memorabilia -- from Aunt Jemimas to black Barbies -- is likely to inflame opinion as much as it did when he was alive. Golden, however, sees Kelly as a precedent for contemporary black artists like Kara Walker, who plays with racial stereotypes in imagemaking. ''After I started work on this exhibition, I stopped thinking about Patrick as a designer and started thinking of him as an artist,'' she says. ''And whether you call his collection Negrophilia or black memorabilia, these are objects that always provoke a conversation, and Patrick understood that sometimes the only way that you can have this dialogue is by taking a route that isn't so clearly understood as good or bad. They are as critical to thinking about his work as his beloved bows and buttons.''
 Kelly's love of adornment sometimes extended to his embellishment of the truth. ''Patrick was the master blurrer of his own myth,'' says Bjorn Amelan, the designer's former business partner and lover, at his home in upstate New York. ''Christmas and birthdays were very important to him, but he had me believe that he was older than he was because he didn't like people to know his age for fear that they would pigeonhole him.'' 
 He was born, in fact, on Sept. 24, 1954, in Vicksburg, Miss., and was raised by his grandmother Ethel Rainey, a maid and caterer, and his mother, Letha Kelly, a home-economics teacher. Little is known about his father, Danie, who was, at different times, a fisherman, cabdriver and insurance agent. ''Patrick didn't talk about him much,'' Amelan says, ''but he told me once that his dad had left abruptly and showed up again at the dinner table one night, without a word of explanation, and asked for the Thousand Island dressing. Whether apocryphal or real, there was some real trauma there that was painful for him to talk about, so I didn't push.''
 He learned to sew from his Aunt Bertha, the family seamstress, and became aware of fashion from the magazines his grandmother would bring home from the houses of the rich people she worked for. ''I knew what a Sears catalog was,'' Kelly once said, recalling the first time he saw a copy of Vogue, ''but this was something different.''
 After graduating from high school -- his yearbook lists him as Friendliest Boy and Best Boy Dancer -- Kelly briefly studied art at Jackson State University before moving to Atlanta, where he decorated the windows at the Yves Saint Laurent boutique for no pay, sorted vintage clothing at Amvets and made extra cash by selling recycled versions of the discarded clothes in a local beauty salon.
 At a 1979 Ebony Fashion Fair in Jackson, Miss., Kelly met the model Pat Cleveland, who encouraged him to move to New York. He studied fashion design at Parsons for a semester -- according to Kelly mythology, a friend from Atlanta whom Kelly bumped into on the street paid the tuition -- and held odd jobs, like scooping ice cream at Baskin-Robbins.
 A year later, Kelly again ran into Cleveland, who had by then become a friend and suggested that he relocate to Paris to pursue his dream, just as his idol Josephine Baker did in the 1920's. Cleveland agreed to meet Kelly later that afternoon at a hair salon but never showed for their rendezvous. However, mysteriously waiting for Kelly was an airline ticket to Paris. ''I never told him it was me, but I think he knew,'' Cleveland says.
Kelly arrived in Paris speaking fractured French and not having the proper papers to work legally. He met the designer Paco Rabanne, who gave him freelance work and signed a lease for him on an apartment along the Rue des Sts.-Pere. Kelly also landed a cash job creating costumes for a nightclub called Le Palace. ''He worked on an old Singer that a friend gave him, but it kept blowing the fuses in the building,'' recalls Liz Goodrum, another transplanted American who helped him with the costumes and became his longstanding friend and assistant. ''We'd work late at night so the neighbors wouldn't find out it was us.''
 Around this time, Kelly was hospitalized with Crohn's disease, an infection of the intestines, and he lost his job with Rabanne. A lifelong fan of fried chicken -- ''One of his favorite sayings was, 'Girl, we gotta get a bird in here,' '' Goodrum says -- Kelly made money as a caterer. Meanwhile, his fashion clientele, mostly black models who occasionally paraded his clothes in guerrilla shows that Kelly organized on the street, continued to grow. He had no phone, so clients would slip their orders under the door, leaving an advance for Kelly to buy fabric.
 Then in February 1983 he bumped into Amelan, a well-connected agent for photographers like William Klein and Horst. Organized and level-headed, Amelan was Kelly's binary complement. ''We were both coming out of a relationship,'' Amelan says, ''but before long we became lovers, and we moved in together.''
 One afternoon, while scouring the fabric district, Kelly stumbled upon rolls of colorful jersey. Convinced that he could make money customizing the fabric with buttons and bows, just as the women in his family adorned their inexpensive store-bought creations, he persuaded Amelan to buy the lot. ''Soon after we bought the fabric,'' Amelan recalls, ''things really turned around. We met a woman called Francoise Chassagnac, a former model who introduced us to the owners of a chic Parisian boutique called Victoire. They agreed to produce Patrick's collection and gave us showroom space above the boutique. They also introduced us to a friend of theirs at Elle magazine.''
 Nicole Crassat had recently been fired as the editor-in-chief of French Elle and was in the last few days of her tenure at the magazine. Her last hurrah, in the February 1985 issue, was to feature Kelly, an unknown, and his jersey dresses, in an unprecedented six-page layout. Amazingly, the clothes that Kelly had sewn on his battered Singer wound up at tony department stores like I. Magnin and Bergdorf Goodman, which also featured them in their windows. ''From then on,'' Amelan says, ''Patrick's career became a juggernaut zooming at high speed. We moved into bigger premises, we began to hold proper fashion shows and our lives became incredibly exhausting.''
 A shrewd marketer of himself -- ''a black American in Paris sells,'' he once said -- Kelly began wearing his signature sharecropper overalls and distributing his little black doll brooches. ''I don't know if the N.A.A.C.P. would like my dolls''- the organization didn't, and took objection to the golliwog logo on his label and shopping bags -- ''but they give me pleasure,'' he said.
 The French press, however, ate it up and called him le mignon petit noir Americain (the cute little black American). Soon, the King of Cling, as he also came to be known, outgrew the Victoire boutique and entered into a short-lived agreement with the Italian manufacturer Ghinea. He was making enough money to hire a small staff, which was augmented by a troupe of unpaid assistants. In December 1986, one assistant, an American named Katherine Schumer, took to Christmas dinner her former employer, the actress Bette Davis. The pair got on like a house on Fire Island, bonding over the peach cobbler that Kelly made for the occasion.
 After Davis and Warnaco came to the rescue, Kelly was able to afford major advertising campaigns, always featuring him, and the spectacular runway presentations that became the toast of Paris for their color and movement at a time when humorless Japanese designers were overrunning the fashion shows. ''Paris fashion was very boring,'' says Audrey Smaltz, who produced all of Kelly's runway shows, ''but Patrick's shows had the most energy and always ended with gospel music -- the audience was so up by the time they walked out.''
 Celebrities like Paloma Picasso, Grace Jones and Madonna began treading a path to his showroom in the Marais, and Kelly himself was becoming a star after appearances on shows like ''Bob Hope's 80th Birthday'' and ''Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous.'' A bespoke collection and eyewear range were started, and discussions were under way for a diffusion line and a perfume. But with the increased attention came new pressures.
 Amelan recalls a dinner they had with Paloma Picasso. ''She told him that he was riding a wave and to be very careful that it didn't leave him behind,'' he says. ''That made a very strong impression on Patrick. He loved a party, good food and to smoke pot, but he became very conscious of not goofing around. He worked harder than ever, and I think that ultimately, the pace his life took aggravated his sickness.''
 On Aug. 23, 1989, the designer checked into the Hotel Dieu hospital. He and Amelan kept the reason for his hospitalization from even their closest friends, many of whom presumed that Kelly had Crohn's disease. 
 ''Patrick absolutely had AIDS, and it's important to set the record straight,'' Amelan says. ''We didn't want people to know at the time because there was obviously a stigma attached to the disease that would have spelled the end of his professional future, and we could not risk that.''
 The spring show in October was canceled because of Kelly's health, and when Wachner checked in on her charge, the ruse was exposed. ''She took one look and said, 'Patrick has AIDS,' '' Amelan says. ''I said he didn't, and she didn't argue with me, but next thing I know we had a letter from her lawyer. She was rightfully of the opinion that Patrick was either going to die or not be able to keep designing collections, and that the business had to come to an end.'' 
 Kelly, who was so enamored of birthdays and holidays, died on Jan. 1, 1990. At Kelly's memorial in New York, Gloria Steinem, who met the designer in 1987 when she interviewed him for the ''Today'' show, eulogized her friend, who managed to bring a little of the Mississippi to the Seine and in the process fulfilled his dream: to become a famous designer in Paris by creating clothes that made people smile. ''He was an outsider who brought the outside with him,'' Steinem read in a shaky voice, ''and then eliminated the outside-inside division for everyone. Instead of dividing us with gold and jewels, he unified us with buttons and bows.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: As provocative as he was talented, Patrick Kelly, shown in 1989, designed with buttons -- and pushed them, too. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GILLES DECAMPS/COURTESY OF BJORN AMELAN)
A 1989 Patrick Kelly advertising image, above
his designs for spring 1989 featured two of his favorite motifs: buttons and watermelons. (FROM TOP: PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVIERO TOSCANI/COURTESY OF BJORN AMELAN
PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAN LECCA (2).
 Kelly, photographed by Horst, pays homage to one of his idols, Coco Chanel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HORST P. HORST/COURTESY OF BROOKLYN MUSEUM OF ART)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (65%) Apparel; Biographical Information

COMPANY: WARNACO GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Brooklyn Museum of Art

INDUSTRY: NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2342 BRASSIERES, GIRDLES, & ALLIED GARMENTS (56%)

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (88%) Patrick (d1990) Kelly; Horacio Silva

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (54%) FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



551 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Bush Education Officials Find New Law a Tough Sell to States

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY, Feb. 20 

 BODY:
It was 8 p.m., and Ken Meyer was smiling gamely from a gloomy high school stage at an audience of disgruntled teachers and parents to whom he had been introduced as ''a bigwig from Washington,'' come to Utah to explain President Bush's centerpiece education law.
 A former math teacher was at a microphone, arguing that it would cost $1 billion for the state to carry out the law's requirements, while the federal government gives Utah only about $100 million. 
 ''That's like sending a child for $10 worth of groceries and giving him just $1 to buy them,'' the former teacher said. 
 ''Let me correct that,'' Mr. Meyer interrupted wearily, wading in as if with a fire extinguisher, spraying official statistics on behalf of the Department of Education, where he is a deputy assistant secretary. ''Believe me, I've traveled to 40 states to talk about this law, and I've done the math. It's very well funded.'' 
 As he campaigns for re-election, President Bush hopes to capitalize on the law, known as No Child Left Behind, as one of the pillars of his domestic agenda. But the Democratic presidential candidates have made it a frequent target of criticism and ridicule. And things are not going that well even in this, one of the most Republican of states.
 Not only the law's financing, but provisions that expand standardized testing to raise achievement and that label schools as underperforming when even small groups of students miss proficiency targets have stirred discontent nationwide among educators and local politicians. So Mr. Meyer's job is to barnstorm the country, part good-will diplomat, part flak-catcher, calming emotions and clarifying misunderstandings.
 He is one of many Bush administration officials traveling to explain the 700-page law. Since Feb. 8, at least 10 other department and White House officials have spoken in nine states, although Susan Aspey, a spokeswoman for the Department of Education, said the pace of travel had been consistent for the last year.
 ''I've been in some, I don't want to say hostile, but very contentious environments'' in recent months, Mr. Meyer said. ''Places where I wondered whether I'd get out of there with my skin intact. This law is largely misunderstood by the public because of its enormity, so people get emotional about it, and you've got pent-up frustrations.''
 Mr. Meyer's trip this week was the second Bush administration mission in two weeks to Utah. A five-person delegation this month defended the law to lawmakers, but the Republican-controlled Utah House nevertheless voted 64 to 8 on Feb. 10 not to comply with any provisions not fully financed by federal money. That measure now awaits Senate action.
 Senator Dave Gladwell, a Republican who is the Utah bill's Senate sponsor, said many of his colleagues felt ambivalent about the measure.
 ''We don't want to embarrass President Bush or his administration, and yet we're kind of sensitive to our state sovereignty,'' he said.
 Gov. Olene S. Walker, a Republican, said in an interview that she expected ''heated discussion'' of the bill in the Senate. She declined to say whether she would sign it if approved.
 The Feb. 10 vote by the Utah House was the strongest action by any state legislature to date, but more than a dozen other states have passed or introduced laws or resolutions challenging the federal law or commissioning studies of the costs of carrying it out.
 Last month, the Republican-controlled Virginia House of Delegates passed a resolution, 98 to 1, urging Congress to exempt Virginia from the law. That vote came after Rod Paige, the education secretary, and other administration officials met with Virginia lawmakers, said James H. Dillard II, chairman of the House Education Committee.
 ''Six of us met with Paige,'' Mr. Dillard, a Republican, said. ''He looked us in the eye and said, 'It's fully funded.' We looked him back in the eye and said, 'We don't think so.' ''
 ''We got platitudes and stonewalls, but no corrective action,'' he said.
 Secretary Paige took action on one part of the law on Thursday, announcing that test scores of recent immigrants who did not speak English would no longer be considered in determining whether a school was meeting annual targets for academic progress.
 That should mean that fewer schools will be judged as ''needing improvement,'' a label that requires schools to carry out costly remedial measures and can result in removal of their staffs. Still, experts predict that within a few years a majority of the country's 90,000 schools will receive the label. 
 Last fall, 245 of Utah's 810 schools were put on a watch list because they had failed to make ''adequate yearly progress,'' said Steven O. Laing, Utah's state school superintendent. Many had been considered excellent schools, but ended up on the list because one small group of students -- fifth-grade special education students, for instance -- had failed to reach academic targets.
 In a meeting with Mr. Meyer on Tuesday, several Republican senators asked questions reflecting concerns about schools put on watch lists in their districts. Mr. Meyer described the law as a tool that helps states to measure school performance, while giving them the flexibility to set their own proficiency benchmarks. 
 ''It's a pretty dynamic business management model,'' Mr. Meyer said.
 After the meeting, Senator Bill Wright, a Republican who is chairman of the Senate Education Committee, said Mr. Meyer had done ''a great job.'' 
 ''But we still have a difference of opinion about how N.C.L.B. would affect Utah,'' Senator Wright said. 
 An hour later, Mr. Meyer met with school superintendents. He heard Steven C. Norton, superintendent of a rural district in northern Utah, report that parents were upset that two schools had been put on a watch list because the law required that 95 percent of students take the standardized tests and one student less than that qualifying threshold had shown up on testing day.
 ''These are die-hard conservative Republicans, and they feel that this is like crying wolf when they see their school labeled for frivolous reasons,'' Mr. Norton said in an interview that he had told Mr. Meyer.
 That evening, addressing 50 educators and parents at Kearns High School in a Salt Lake City suburb, Mr. Meyer said that American schools needed to improve so that workers could compete for jobs in a globalized economy. The law, he said, empowered educators by identifying students who needed special help and resources.
 Russel Sias, a retired engineer and registered Republican whose daughter is a middle school teacher, said to a reporter at the meeting: ''I feel like we're hearing the best vacuum cleaner salesman in the world. They're going to label every school in the country as failing, and they call it empowerment?''
 Rebecca Christensen, who earns $26,000 a year teaching sixth grade, told the crowd of the frustrations of trying to raise test scores at a school where student turnover was high and parental involvement low. 
 ''How many of the congressmen who wrote this law have ever been in a classroom?'' she asked.
 Mr. Meyer listened, and then congratulated Ms. Christensen and the other teachers in the audience for working in education under difficult conditions.
 ''You're all on the front line, and I applaud you,'' he said. 
 Then he added, ''I like to quote the president: 'There's not a school in this country that doesn't need improvement.' ''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Rebecca Christensen, above left, a teacher in Kearns, Utah, voiced her frustration about the education law to Ken Meyer, below, deputy assistant education secretary. Mr. Meyer has visited 40 states to talk about the law. (Photographs by Jeffrey D. Allred for The New York Times)(pg. 24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%) Education and Schools; Law and Legislation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; States (US) ; Education and Schools; Law and Legislation; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Sam Dillon; George W (Pres) Bush; Ken Meyer

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004



552 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1; LOOT: Along the Antiquities Trail

LENGTH: 5941 words

HEADLINE: An Illicit Journey Out of Egypt, Only a Few Questions Asked

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER and MARTIN GOTTLIEB; Abeer Allam contributed reporting from Egypt for this article and Alison Langley from Switzerland.

 BODY:
The past is everywhere in the Upper Egypt city of Akhmim, and mining it is a constant occupation. 
 At a government archaeological site, workers haul bucketfuls of soil and sand from a vast crease in the earth, gradually revealing a mammoth temple from the reign of Ramses II. But unsanctioned digging goes on all over Akhmim -- at an ancient cemetery riddled with holes left by looters; at farms and construction sites; inside homes where residents, sometimes inspired by the divinations of fortune tellers, hunt for treasure beneath dirt floors. 
 A decade ago, laborers excavating a building site in Akhmim hit a four-foot-high, tombstone-shaped slab of limestone incised with hieroglyphics and the image of Osiris, god of the lower world. The ancient Egyptians offered this kind of monument, known as a stele, as a tribute to a god or a dead relative. 
 Under Egyptian law, the stele should have been turned over to the government, a recovered shard of the national patrimony. Instead, something considerably more commonplace happened. It became an outlaw. Quietly, it passed into the global antiquities market. Five years later, cleansed of its illicit origins, it emerged in New York as a rich man's prize, in the foyer of a Fifth Avenue apartment. 
 Journeys like this one are traced by countless artifacts from Akhmims all over the world. Typically they begin in silence and end in silence, few questions asked. 
 But the stele from Akhmim has given up its secrets. Two years ago, it was seized by federal agents in New York as part of a court case. The records from that case, together with dozens of interviews and documents gathered on three continents, provide that rarest of commodities in the antiquities trade: a detailed account of the smuggling, marketing and selling of a piece of loot. 
 That narrative reveals the inner motivations and mechanics of the flourishing worldwide market for high-end antiquities. And while much of the material flowing through that market is unassailably clean, the stele's progress shows how seamlessly looted objects can blend in, whether dealers are aware of it or not. 
 ''People think that there is an illicit market and a legitimate market,'' said Ricardo J. Elia, associate professor of archaeology at Boston University and a frequent critic of the antiquities industry. ''In fact, it is the same.'' 
 The trade in looted antiquities is, of course, as old as antiquity. Its precise dimensions are necessarily unknown, though Interpol, the international police organization, says looting is probably vastly underreported, since so many countries lack the resources to safeguard historical sites. 
 Even so, what is clear is that the decade of the stele's passage was one of enormous changes in the antiquities world, all accompanied by heightened legal scrutiny and the racheting up of a long and bitter debate about the ethics of the trade. 
 Political upheaval opened up new sources of loot all over the globe. Economic globalization and the rise of the Internet helped speed those goods to market. 
 To critics of the industry -- largely archaeologists and some foreign governments -- the market's voracious demand for fresh objects is responsible for the continuing destruction of sites. 
 But dealers say they have become increasingly vigilant in recent years, far more conscientious about operating within the antiquities laws of countries like Egypt. They say they make every effort to sell only legitimate artifacts. 
 ''I think 15 years ago, people took a more relaxed view of things,'' said James Ede, a London-based dealer and head of the International Association of Dealers in Ancient Art. ''The feeling was that these were stupid laws, they were laws in other countries, they didn't apply to us.'' Today, he said, that feeling has completely changed.
 Still, the stele's journey out of Egypt illuminates the powerful, persistent tension between efforts to stanch the trade in loot and the raw instincts of the marketplace. 
 Across more than 5,000 miles, five owners and two snookered would-be owners, every person involved with the stele propelled it onward. At any moment, the story could have been brought up short. But no one seemed eager to ask or answer a couple of simple questions: Where did this object come from? How did it arrive at my door? 
 One dealer who handled the stele, Bernard Blondeel, has an explanation for that. ''Perhaps if you ask too many questions,'' he said, ''too many things will disappear.''

Akhmim: Fertile Ground
 Late on a steamy June night in 1994, a man named Ali Farag, his eyes blindfolded by a towel, sat in a car traveling disorienting circles through the earthen alleyways of Akhmim. When the car stopped, the towel was removed, and Mr. Farag found himself at a construction site on the edge of town. 
 It was there that the Akhmim stele had been unearthed several months before, along with several small statues, a painted wooden sarcophagus and three smaller steles. An interesting find, but hardly a surprising one in Akhmim. 
 Modern Akhmim, a weaving and trading center 350 miles south of Cairo, has the look of a Nileside boomtown, chockablock with construction cranes and apartment towers hastily built for people flowing in from the countryside. But beneath the surface lies an archaeological layer cake, rich with the leavings of the past -- the early Islamic layer upon the Roman layer upon the Greek layer upon the monuments and everyday objects of the city the ancient Egyptians named for the fertility god Min. 
 This ancient wealth -- together with Akhmim's poverty, rapid development and easy corruption -- has made the city a fertile source of fresh goods for smugglers. 
 Places like this can be found all over the world. Some countries, like Egypt, Italy and Greece, have been feeding the market for centuries. Others -- like China, Afghanistan and the old East bloc lands -- have risen to prominence just in recent years. 
 In Akhmim, as elsewhere, the trade begins with the impoverished amateurs. 
 On a recent night, Mamdouh al-Qaoud, a blacksmith, walked a visitor toward Al Salamouni mountain, a long limestone ridge pockmarked with the violated tombs of a sprawling ancient necropolis. 
 ''Everyone digs for antiquities in the mountains,'' Mr. Qaoud said. ''They feel it is their birthright to inherit these antiquities from their great ancestors.'' 
 The authorities tend to view the idea of cultural patrimony a little differently. Under a law passed in 1983, all newly discovered artifacts are property of the state, export prohibited. 
 ''Poor people who are digging in their houses get arrested all the time,'' said Makhlouf Abdel Karim Khalifa, a butcher. ''But those who are really in the business of smuggling are careful and protected.''
 Mr. Farag, a thin man with a thick mustache, was very much in the business, according to the Egyptian authorities. For much of the 1990's, they say, he and his brothers ran one of Egypt's biggest smuggling rings out of a curio shop-turned-jewelry emporium housed in a 19th-century Euro-Islamic building in downtown Cairo. 
 Farmers stopped by on market days to sell artifacts from their fields. Village leaders and looters called in tips about new discoveries. None of it would have worked without the complicity of government officials bribed to look the other way and even provide artifacts, court records show. 
 The Farags also offered builders a profitable way around a big problem: what to do with a significant archaeological find that could lead the authorities to shut down a job. Still, when Ali Farag arrived in Akhmim in June of 1994, the builders knew they had to handle him with care, according to a journal kept by one of his close associates. If he knew the precise site of the strike, he could bargain down the price by threatening to expose the builders to the police. 
 But with the men gathered at the site and Mr. Farag's blindfold lifted, negotiations began. Mr. Farag was shown the hidden artifacts, along with blueprints of the project and where each piece had been found, according to the journal. The builders wanted $70,000 for everything. 
 Just how much they settled for is not clear, but soon after Mr. Farag left Akhmim, the deal was done.

Cairo: The Smuggler
 Every local smuggler needs a bridge to the West. For Ali Farag, it was an Englishman named Jonathan Tokeley-Parry. 
 For several years, Mr. Tokeley-Parry had been a regular visitor to an apartment in a Cairo suburb where the Farags hid their latest finds. Nearly a decade later, he still recalls the smell of the place, that deep, dank scent of fresh-dug earth. 
 ''It was the smell of tombs and ancient places,'' he said in a recent interview. ''It was like being in a suspended bubble in time.''
 Mr. Tokeley-Parry says he met Mr. Farag in 1988, at the old Windsor Hotel in Cairo. Mr. Tokeley-Parry, movie-star handsome and Cambridge-educated, then in his late 30's, had gone to Egypt as an adviser to a Danish dealer. The arrangement, he admits, was compromised by his own naivete. On his advice, the dealer had just spent $20,000 on a collection of amulets that quickly proved counterfeit. 
 If Mr. Farag found his bridge, Mr. Tokeley-Parry found a partner who, piece by piece, taught him the finer points of the trade. Smuggling, it turned out, was a comfortable fit for his unusual mix of inclinations and skills. He was already well known as a talented restorer of antiquities. His self-image, though, was rather more ornate: He saw himself as a throwback to the days when aristocratic adventurers roamed the exotic East claiming treasures at will. 
 Of Egypt he later wrote, ''You feel that anything might turn up at any moment, as you'd feel an approaching train.'' 
 Smugglers use a variety of ruses to move their goods. Mr. Tokeley-Parry used one particularly suited to his restorer's skills: He disguised artifacts as tourist junk and walked them through customs. 
 To take a massive head of Pharaoh Amenhotep III out of Egypt, for example, he coated it with a removable adhesive called Paraloid B72, then covered it with a plaster carapace in the shape of a souvenir bust. He painted the piece in garish reds and golds and completed the illusion by mounting it on a base inscribed with the name of a Cairo hotel that sold curios. 
 Ali Farag could not be located for this article. But Mr. Tokeley-Parry says that by the summer of 1994, their six-year partnership had produced a formidable record: more than 60 trips between Egypt and England, more than 2,000 objects smuggled without incident. 
 As he walked into the Farags' Cairo hideaway and saw the stele propped against a wall, Mr. Tokeley-Parry was struck by its size and its crisp condition. But he also worried that it might be about as genuine as that $20,000 heap of amulets. 
 Sitting on the dusty floor, he recalls, he gazed at the stele almost trancelike, seeing if it felt right, if any details seemed out of place. Trolling the raw umber surface, he saw a typical memorial scene -- four human figures approaching Osiris with a table of offerings, and above them two piercing eyes representing the sun god Ra. Among the eight columns of hieroglyphics, Mr. Tokeley-Parry recognized the cartouche -- a characteristic oblong symbol -- of Psamtik I, a pharaoh of the 26th Dynasty, whose reign began around 660 B.C. Objects from that period, a time of great artistic flowering, were much prized by collectors. 
 Next, he slowly moved a photographer's loupe across the limestone face, inspecting the way it had aged, and the minuscule markings left by the carver. Ancient copper tools, he says, leave softer incisions than modern steel chisels. 
 The Akhmim stele bore the gratifying signature of copper.

Oxford: The Expert
 Soon after the stele was discovered, Dr. Jaromir Malek, director of the Griffith Institute of the Ashmolean Museum at Oxford University, received a photograph of it in the mail, along with a note from a man named Kim Pegler, who identified himself as a lawyer. He was hoping, he said, to obtain some expert information for a client. 
 ''I am extremely grateful to you for your help and hope to show the pieces and meet you in the near future,'' Mr. Pegler wrote.
 The Griffith is the world's foremost archive of Egyptology, and like many scholarly institutions, it is generous with its expertise. That generosity, though, can sometimes be abused by smugglers, which was exactly what was going on with the stele. 
 Having established its authenticity, Mr. Tokeley-Parry says, he knew that the stele might have a different problem: Perhaps it had not been unearthed by accident but had actually been stolen from a known archaeological site or a storeroom. If so, a record might exist -- a photograph or description in a journal -- that would identify it and kill its market value. 
 One defense was to dupe an expert like Dr. Malek into researching the piece. Hence the letter from Mr. Pegler, who was not a lawyer but a friend of Mr. Tokeley-Parry, according to court documents. 
 Dr. Malek translated the stele's hieroglyphics, which told of an important government official charged with keeping track of horse populations, who had commissioned the stele as a family memorial. 
 ''The owner of the stela is Pasenenkhons, 'Scribe of the Horse,' '' Dr. Malek wrote to Mr. Pegler. 
 Dr. Malek also consulted the institute's compendium of all known Egyptian monuments -- known in the trade as ''Porter & Moss'' -- for references to the stele or to Pasenenkhons (pronounced Pa-sen-en-CONS). He found none; it was unknown. 
 For Mr. Tokeley-Parry, that meant it was good to go.

New York: The Dealer
 Not long after, the fax machine in the galleries of Frederick Schultz Ancient Art on 57th Street in Manhattan disgorged a letter from Mr. Tokeley-Parry, excitedly describing the discovery at Akhmim. The stele of Pasenenkhons, he wrote, was the ''best I've seen for years on the market'' and could be bought, with the rest of the hoard, for $70,000. 
 The letter was a remarkable document, putting into writing what is normally only hinted at -- that looted artifacts were for sale. What made it even more remarkable was its timing. 
 Increasingly, the antiquities trade was being accused of illicitly trafficking in plunder. A number of major museums had begun demanding that dealers provide greater documentation of pieces' ownership histories, or provenance. At the same time, several countries, most notably Greece and Turkey, were asking American courts to order the return of objects they claimed under their national antiquities laws. 
 The dealers counterattacked. They argued that the United States should not recognize those foreign laws, that there was a bright legal line separating objects stolen from an individual owner -- a museum or collector -- and those that were looted, that is, unearthed and taken from the country of origin. 
 Frederick Schultz was a key figure in the industry's lobbying campaign; he would soon become president of a leading trade group, the National Association of Dealers in Ancient, Oriental and Primitive Art. 
 By all accounts, Mr. Schultz -- a preppy-looking Princeton graduate whose father had been deputy chairman of the Federal Reserve -- was an articulate voice for his industry. He was also a politically savvy one, and he warned his colleagues that, legal principle notwithstanding, any obvious missteps would help arm their critics. 
 ''Always use a customs agent when importing objects,'' he wrote in his notes for one speech. ''Be careful who your suppliers are, and stress to them the importance that stolen things not be circulated.'' 
 For Mr. Schultz, in his early 40's and still relatively new to the business, that high-profile spokesman's role served to enhance his standing. So did his relationship with Jonathan Tokeley-Parry. 
 In each branch of the antiquities market -- Classical, pre-Columbian, Far Eastern and so forth -- there are perhaps a few dozen dealers of significance. But the very top ranks are occupied by the dealers with the choicest pieces -- the rare and the never before seen. Put another way, given the nature of the hierarchy, Mr. Schultz's ambition came with a certain incentive to deal in plunder, the stock in trade of Mr. Tokeley-Parry. 
 A case in point, according to papers from a later court case, was the piece that began their partnership, the head of Amenhotep III. Mr. Tokeley-Parry had bought it from a builder for $6,000. Mr. Schultz sold it for $1.2 million, and it was soon acquired by the leading dealer of the day, Robin Symes. 
 To complete that journey, though, the smugglers had not simply sheathed Amenhotep in red and gold and sped him through customs as tourist schlock. They also had to deal with the increasingly sticky issue of provenance. 
 Dealers and auction houses often point out that many pieces without clear provenance are still perfectly legitimate, having been purchased by collectors before countries began restricting the trade. But dealers also sometimes used that argument as a sort of wink-and-a-nod cover story, describing questionable pieces as coming from, say, an ''old English'' or ''old Swiss'' collection. 
 In 1991, with the spotlight coming on the industry, Mr. Schultz and Mr. Tokeley-Parry simply constructed a more detailed cover story for Amenhotep III. They created a phony collection, supposedly amassed by a civil engineer named Thomas Alcock, who roamed the British Empire in the early 1900's. Mr. Tokeley-Parry used 1920's conservation techniques to create a veneer of authentic provenance; display stickers, for instance, were made from Victorian-era pharmacy labels soaked in tea for the yellowed brittleness of age. 
 Now their portfolio was poised to grow again, with the addition of the stele of Pasenenkhons. In 1995, financial records indicate, Mr. Schultz wired at least $52,000 to Swiss bank accounts controlled by Mr. Tokeley-Parry or Mr. Farag, as down payment for the pieces. 
 The next spring, Mr. Tokeley-Parry traveled to Geneva. He had an added incentive to complete the deal, he recalls. He had been arrested in Britain and charged with illicit trafficking in antiquities. The Akhmim stele, he hoped, would mean one more big score, an infusion of cash before he had to stand trial. 
 He says Ali Farag had assured him the stele would be in Geneva any day. He waited for two weeks, but it never showed up.

Zurich: The Free Port
 In the best Swiss tradition, the next phase of the stele's journey remains obscure. For a time, a half ton of stone seems simply to have disappeared. Mr. Tokeley-Parry says he does not know what happened. Somewhere in the fog, perhaps, there was a double cross. Certainly, there was a change in plans, and a whole new set of characters. 
 The paper trail picks up again in late 1997, with a shipping manifest showing that the stele of Pasenenkhons, along with two of the smaller Akhmim steles, had been processed at a warehouse in Zurich. 
 The warehouse was part of a network of sprawling complexes, known as free ports, that handle huge volumes of valuable -- and usually perfectly legitimate -- cargo, from tractors to machine parts to ancient art. Still, duty free and governed by the Swiss system of business discretion, the free ports have helped make Switzerland a crossroads of the smuggler's world. 
 They are self-contained and secretive places, secured behind cyclone fences in major cities and at the airports. Forklifts transport merchandise down silent cinder-block corridors to bare storage lockers and opulent showrooms set behind metal doors identified by numbers, not company names. Smuggled cargo can enter a free port, change hands and be sent on its way with the barest wisp of a paper trail. 
 To finance the civil war in Sierra Leone, for example, rebel armies used Swiss free ports to disguise the source of tens of millions of dollars of ''blood diamonds'' dispersed to the West, according to a United Nations report.
 As for antiquities, Swiss officials say that in the last five years, they have received 75 requests from foreign governments to help track artifacts they believe were smuggled into the country. ''When there is a case, there is often a link with Switzerland,'' said Marc-Andre Renold, director of the Art Law Centre in Geneva. 
 Just who brought the stele of Pasenenkhons into the country, and when, is not clear. But an official of a shipper at the free port that processed the stele and its companion pieces, Rolf Kutny of Rodolphe Haller A.G., said they had been stored in a locker leased to a company called ''H. H. Antiques.'' 
 An executive of the free port, Adriano Bienz, said that as a matter of policy, he could not disclose any details about H. H. Antiques. But Mr. Kutny said the company had rented a locker for a short period and then disappeared. 
 ''It was a fantasy company,'' he said. 
 And in November 1997, the stele was on the move again. A shipping manifest shows that a truck left Zurich for Geneva, carrying the three pieces from Akhmim.

Geneva: The Gallery
 Phoenix Ancient Art, on a winding cobblestone street in downtown Geneva, has the feel of a private museum, its minimalist display space a palette of grays. On any given day, a visitor might find sculpted torsos from Greece, silver ceremonial vessels from Mesopotamia, jewelry inlaid with lapis lazuli. It was there that the stele of Pasenenkhons surfaced in late 1997. 
 The gallery is owned by two brothers, Ali and Hicham Aboutaam, and in the ebb and flow at the heights of the dealing world, they were very much on the way up. 
 The brothers had inherited the business from their father, Sleiman Aboutaam, who had started it in the 1960's in Beirut, then a hub of the market. But the sons, tall, urbane and in their 30's, had transformed it into an enterprise of an entirely different order. 
 They were selling to museums like the Metropolitan in New York, as well as to major collectors like the financier Michael Steinhardt and the designer Bill Blass. They were fearless players on the auction scene and supplied artifacts to other dealers in Europe and America, including Frederick Schultz. They opened a Manhattan gallery, just off Madison Avenue, and created a digital photographic archive of their changing inventory of as many as 5,000 pieces. 
 ''They are on the top of the world,'' said Robert Hecht, an American dealer who in the 70's was there himself. ''They have realized their father's dreams.'' 
 It was their father, the brothers said, who purchased the stele of Pasenenkhons and its two companion pieces at the Zurich free port from H. H. Antiques. As for who was behind H. H. Antiques, the brothers say they have no idea. Their father, who may have, died in a Swissair crash in 1998. 
 At the request of The New York Times, the Aboutaams checked their files for clues to the seller's identity. They said they could find no records -- a check, an invoice or a ledger entry -- describing the sale. 
 ''Nothing could lead me to who was the actual person who had these when they were offered to my father,'' Hicham Aboutaam said. ''I expected our papers to be better than that.'' 
 At the time of the purchase, the brothers said, they did not know that the pieces had been looted. But they did try to make sure they had not been stolen.
 As with any object involving a substantial investment -- they estimated their father had paid about $70,000 for the three steles -- they sent pictures to the Art Loss Register, an organization that keeps a database of artworks reported stolen. The search came up negative. 
 The Aboutaams also took a step to help market their investment. They asked a scholar, Massimo Patane of the University of Geneva, to translate the hieroglyphics on the three steles and write a scholarly paper about them. Archaeologists are divided over the propriety of such articles, with some arguing that they can give unprovenanced artifacts a sheen of legitimacy. 
 Professor Patane's article was published in a small German journal in autumn 1998. ''This group,'' he wrote, ''remarkable both for its variety and the genealogical and religious information it contains, shows once again what happy surprises the antiquities trade has to offer.''

Paris: The Buyer
 An article like Professor Patane's is but one element in the sort of marketing campaign used to propel a piece to its ultimate destination -- a museum or private collection. It fell to Bernard Blondeel to shepherd the stele of Pasenenkhons onward. 
 Mr. Blondeel, a Belgian with a gallery in Paris, had long specialized in medieval tapestry. But he was looking for a way into the antiquities market, and when he walked into Phoenix Ancient Art on a July afternoon in 1998, the stele caught his eye. By day's end, he had spent about $500,000 for the stele, its companions and other artifacts. 
 The stele changed hands with few hard questions asked. Mr. Blondeel said he did not know which brother he had dealt with. But in either case, he said, the Aboutaams' reputation was all the assurance he needed. 
 ''He said that there was no problem with the provenance,'' recalled Mr. Blondeel. He declined to make available any sales documents given him by the Aboutaams. 
 With the deal closed, Mr. Blondeel purchased a full-page advertisement in Revue du Louvre, a glossy Paris gallery guide, that showed the stele at its monumental best, bathed in light against a black background. 
 Mr. Blondeel also took the Akhmim pieces on tour. In the fall of 1998, the Pasenenkhons stele was shown at the Biennale Internationale des Antiquaires in Paris. Mr. Blondeel says he believes that he brought one of the smaller steles that year to the annual antiques show at the Seventh Regiment Armory in Manhattan. A few booths away sat Frederick Schultz, who had paid for that piece and lost it a few years before. 
 Mr. Blondeel's efforts bore fruit in May 1999, he says, when he was approached by a New York developer, H. Henry Elghanayan, who had seen an advertisement for the stele of Pasenenkhons in an antiquities magazine. The dealer said Mr. Elghanayan, chief executive of the Rockrose Development Corporation, later saw the piece at his Paris gallery and agreed to buy it. 
 For his part, Mr. Elghanayan would not say if he had asked Mr. Blondeel for details of the stele's provenance, or what, if anything, the dealer had told him. ''The dealer is a reputable one,'' he said. ''The dealer stood behind the work.'' What's more, he added, the dealer had promised a refund in the unlikely event of a problem. 
 The price was $210,000, a fair bit of appreciation for one piece in a haul that had begun with a $70,000 asking price. Five years later, it had finally come to rest, in an apartment on Fifth Avenue, across the street from the Metropolitan Museum of Art.

New York: The Recovery
 For Frederick Schultz, the stele of Pasenenkhons was the one that got away. In the winter of 2002, it caught up with him. 
 Legal trouble had been circling the dealer, in fact, ever since the stele had vanished somewhere between Cairo and Zurich in 1997. That year, his partner, Mr. Tokeley-Parry, had been convicted in the British smuggling case and sentenced to six years in prison. Soon the Scotland Yard detective on that case, Richard Ellis, had begun asking questions about Mr. Schultz. 
 To make a case against the dealer, though, American investigators had to identify the pieces he and Mr. Tokeley-Parry had conspired to smuggle and sell. They believed that they would find evidence of them in the mountain of photographs and records Scotland Yard had seized from Mr. Tokeley-Parry's home.
 But as they sifted through the papers, investigators found themselves at a loss to distinguish among all the heads, statues and vases in the photographs, or to interpret Mr. Tokeley-Parry's professional slang. 
 ''We would look at his letters and say, 'What does this look like?' '' recalled Marcia Issacson, the lead prosecutor on the case. ''We didn't know what he was talking about.'' 
 For help, they went to the Brooklyn Museum of Art, where Edna R. Russmann, an Egyptologist, was asked to match the photographs with pieces she had seen in Mr. Schultz's gallery. After months of work, an F.B.I. agent, Patrick Gildea, showed her a few last odds and ends. 
 ''There was a kind of poor photo of a group of three steles,'' Ms. Russmann recalled. Though she was impressed by the pieces, they rang no bells. But months later, she saw an article about a large stele and two smaller companions. The steles, she realized, were the ones Mr. Gildea had asked her about. 
 In fact, the article was the one the Swiss professor, Mr. Patane, had written at the request of the Aboutaams; the photograph was credited to their gallery, Phoenix Ancient Art. The big piece was the stele of Pasenenkhons. 
 Mr. Schultz had never sold, or even seen, the stele. But it became a stealth weapon for the prosecution: of all the pieces in the indictment, it was among the few on which the statute of limitations had yet to expire. 
 Mr. Schultz declined to be interviewed for this article, beyond saying he was not guilty. But at trial in New York in early 2002, his lawyers argued that he was unaware of Egypt's antiquities law and had been duped by Mr. Tokeley-Parry, now embittered and turned star government witness. 
 The dealer's conviction, for conspiring to smuggle stolen artifacts, set the stage for a legal battle over a fundamental issue, the one that had been at the heart of his lobbying efforts: Does American law consider pieces looted from countries like Egypt stolen property? 
 Last July, a federal appeals panel in New York ruled that it does, as long as those countries actively enforce their antiquities laws. Mr. Schultz is serving a 33-month sentence at a federal prison in Fort Dix, N.J. 
 Several months after the trial, two F.B.I. agents, assisted by three movers and several porters, removed the stele from Mr. Elghanayan's apartment. He has been reimbursed by Mr. Blondeel, who, in turn, has gotten his money back from the Aboutaams. As for the pieces Mr. Schultz and Mr. Tokeley-Parry handled, some have been recovered. Others are missing. 
 The two smaller steles from Akhmim are still in the possession of Mr. Blondeel, who says he is waiting for instructions about where to send them. He is sure of one thing, he says: His fling with unprovenanced antiquities is over. 
 And the stele of Pasenenkhons is now in the Cairo Museum, a hero, of sorts, in Egypt's campaign to reclaim its stolen treasures.

Epilogue: New Troubles
 There are signs that perhaps the age-old ways of the trade are beginning to give way. 
 In the last year, two important Western nations on the antiquities trail have moved to crack down on smuggling. Swiss lawmakers are expected to pass a law requiring greater documentation for articles passing through its free ports, while Britain has made it a crime to handle an artifact knowing that it was looted after 2003. 
 Among the dealers, there is concern that the new legal climate -- and especially the appeals court's ruling in the Schultz case -- will unfairly dam up the trade. On their own, the dealers say, they have become far more scrupulous about asking the tough questions of provenance. 
 ''Auctioneers, dealers, collectors and museums typically exercise exceptional care and diligence prior to buying and selling works of art,'' the dealers group that Mr. Schultz once headed said in a statement. 
 The Aboutaam brothers say they, too, have become exceptionally careful; they devote more time than ever to researching provenance, they say. They know well, they say, the questions their competitors ask about them in private -- questions about where they get some of their best pieces. But the truth of the matter, they insist, is that the Akhmim stele would never pass their muster now. 
 ''People are always badmouthing us,'' Ali Aboutaam said in a recent interview. ''We are used to it.'' 
 It was not long, though, before the questioning went public. 
 In mid-December, Hicham Aboutaam was arrested at his New York apartment and charged with smuggling a silver ceremonial drinking vessel known as a rhyton into the United States from Iran and falsely claiming that it came from Syria. 
 The authorities say the piece, in the shape of a griffin, may be part of the Western Cave Treasure, hundreds of works in silver discovered in the late 1980's at a cave near the Iran-Iraq border. Soon afterward, treasure hunters plundered the site and many of the pieces, which date to 700 B.C., passed into the antiquities market. 
 In 2000, according to a criminal complaint filed in federal court in Manhattan, Hicham Aboutaam hand-carried the piece on a flight from Zurich to Newark, planning to sell it to a collector in the United States. At the time, an affiliate of Phoenix Ancient Art based in the Grenadine Islands, Tanis Antiquities Ltd., issued a customs document identifying Syria as the piece's country of origin, the complaint adds. Imports from Iran are severely restricted and monitored. 
 When the collector -- Paula Cussi, a Metropolitan Museum trustee -- had first seen the griffin the previous year at the Aboutaams' Geneva gallery, the brothers had told her it was from Iran, the complaint states. But Ms. Cussi demanded proof of authenticity. So in 2002, the complaint adds, Hicham Aboutaam sent the piece to three experts, who determined that its workmanship or metal content were consistent with other objects from the Western Cave and surrounding sites in Iran. Armed with those reports, Mr. Aboutaam closed the deal that year for $950,000, the court papers say. 
 Mr. Aboutaam, who was released on $500,000 bail, has yet to be indicted, and neither he nor his lawyer, Peter Chavkin, returned calls seeking comment. A lawyer for Ms. Cussi, who is not accused of any wrongdoing, said she recently got back her money for the piece, which has been seized by the authorities. 
 Ali Aboutaam is in trouble, too. 
 At about the same time as Hicham was arrested in New York, Ali's name was being read out in a Cairo courtroom, one of 31 people accused of being part of a long-running ring that had smuggled artifacts through Switzerland to Western dealers and galleries. The charges grew out of a raid last summer at the main Geneva free port. 
 The indicted included several high-ranking Egyptian police and government officials; the mastermind, prosecutors said, was Tariq al-Suwaysi, a politician and businessman whose lavish way of life had earned him the nickname ''the Prince.'' Also among the accused were several members of the Farag family, the clan that had bought the stele of Pasenenkhons from the builders in Akhmim. 
 Egypt's general prosecutor, Maher Abdel Wahed, said Mr. Aboutaam had been indicted based on telephone conversations secretly recorded last year, along with other information that showed he had received smuggled artifacts through Mr. Suwaysi's ring. The prosecutor said the two men had been recorded discussing, often in code, the delivery of smuggled pieces.
 ''They were partners,'' he said. 
 After reviewing transcripts of the recorded conversations, Ali Aboutaam issued a statement saying he and his brother constantly received telephone calls from people seeking to sell them objects or claiming to be owed money by their father, Sleiman Aboutaam. The calls from Mr. Suwaysi, he said, fit into that category. 
 A Swiss lawyer for Mr. Aboutaam, Mario Roberty, said that while his client knew of Mr. Suwaysi, it was only because Sleiman Aboutaam might have dealt with him. 
 Added Ali, ''I never bought from him, for sure.''

A documentary produced in conjunction with this article will be broadcast tomorrow night on the Discovery Times Channel.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 26, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Monday about the global trade in looted antiquities misspelled the surname of an assistant United States attorney who prosecuted a New York dealer. She is Marcia Isaacson, not Issacson. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: BACK HOME -- The Akhmim stele on display in the Egyptian Museum in Cairo. (Photo by Barry Iverson/The New York Times)
CONVICTED -- Frederick Schultz was jailed for conspiring to sell stolen artifacts. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)
PUBLICITY -- A scholarly article in a German journal, above, and an image in an ad in a French catalog were part of the marketing campaign for the stele.
NEXT STOP -- The stele turned up in a Geneva gallery now owned by Ali, left, and Hicham Aboutaam. They say they do not know who sold it to their father, who died in 1998. (Photo by Sylvain Savolainen for The New York Times)
PORT OF CALL -- The Akhmim stele's trail vanished for a time until 1997, when it resurfaced in a warehouse of Geneva's free port zone, right. It handles huge volumes of cargo with Swiss discretion. (Photo by Sylvain Savolainen for The New York Times)(pg. A13)
FIRST BUYER -- In 1994, Ali Farag, right, was taken blindfolded to a site in Akhmim, center photo, where the stele had been found, and negotiated a purchase price, according to Jonathan Tokeley-Parry, far right. He was Mr. Farag's smuggling bridge to the West and a restorer who could disguise artifacts as tourist junk. (Photo by Silas Tyler)
(Photo by Jonathan Player for The New York Times)
FAKING HISTORY -- A court exhibit shows one of Mr. Tokeley-Parry's efforts to create old-looking labels for newly smuggled pieces.
WAY STATION -- The stele in a Cairo apartment where the Farag brothers hid their finds. (Photo by Craig Duff)(pg. A12)
 The limestone funeral stele that was excavated by laborers in Akhmim, Egypt, in 1994. (pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (93%); ARCHAEOLOGY (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); SMUGGLING (87%); POLICE FORCES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); ETHICS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Archaeology and Anthropology; Smuggling; Looting; Egyptian Civilization; Archaeology and Anthropology

ORGANIZATION: Cairo Museum

PERSON: Barry Meier; Martin Gottlieb; Frederick Schultz

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) EGYPT (99%); SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) Akhmim (Egypt); Egypt

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004



553 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2; ARTS BRIEFING

LENGTH: 796 words

BYLINE: By Lawrence Van Gelder

 BODY:

HIGHLIGHTS

ARCHITECTURE: ACCOLADE -- Demetri Porphyrios, the architect and theorist whose designs include Whitman College, Princeton's newest residential college; and the Grove Quadrangle of Magdalen College at Oxford, has been named the recipient of the $100,000 second annual Richard H. Driehaus Prize for Classical Architecture. The prize honors a major contributor in traditional and classical architecture or historic preservation. Dr. Porphyrios, the principal of the London-based Porphyrios Associates, is to receive the accolade, administered through the University of Notre Dame School of Architecture, in a ceremony on March 20 in the ballroom at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. Besides the $100,000 award, the prize, endowed by Richard H. Driehaus, the founder and chairman of Driehaus Capital Management in Chicago, includes a bronze and stone replica of the Choregic Monument of Lysikrates in Athens.

FILM: COMING ATTRACTIONS -- The Spanish director Pedro Almodovar's ''Bad Education'' has been chosen to open this year's Cannes International Film Festival, Agence France-Presse reported. The film is a story of two boys who discover love, movies and fear in the 1960's in a religious school and who renew their ties in the decades that follow. Organizers of the festival, to run from from May 12 to 23, did not announce if ''Bad Education'' would be among the films in the official competition. That list is to be made public late next month. Previous films of Mr. Almodovar, above, include ''Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown''; ''All About My Mother,'' a 1999 prize winner at Cannes for best direction; and ''Talk to Her.''

ARCHITECTURE: SEEING THE FUTURE -- Beginning on Wednesday an eight-foot high, three-dimensional scale model of the Freedom Tower, scheduled to be the first building to rise at ground zero, will be on view at the Center for Architecture, 536 La Guardia Place. Designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill for Silverstein Properties, the model is the centerpiece of a free exhibition, ''Rethinking the Skyline: Rebuilding the City.'' The Center for Architecture, sponsored by the New York Chapter of the American Institute of Architects, is open 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Monday through Friday and 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Saturday.

MUSIC: VARESE ARCHIVE -- The papers of the futurist composer Edgard Varese (1883-1965) have been acquired by the Paul Sacher Foundation in Basel, Switzerland, from the Chinese-American composer, Chou-Wen Chung, a friend who administered Varese's estate. The foundation, already a repository of the papers of Igor Stravinsky and Anton Webern, among others, said the acquisition was significant because the Varese papers, previously inaccessible to the public, will become available to scholars beginning in August. The acquisition, the foundation said, was made possible through the support of the Hoffmann and Oeri families, Basel patrons of the arts.

GAUGUIN IN BOSTON -- More than 150 works by the French Post-Impressionist Paul Gauguin (1848-1903) are to be on view from Sunday to June 20 at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. The exhibition, organized in France by the Reunion des Musees Nationaux and the Musee d'Orsay, Paris, and in the United States by the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, includes paintings, carved wood sculpture, objects of decorative art, drawings, prints and illustrated manuscripts. Besides documentary photographs, objects from the South Seas that might have inspired Gauguin are also part of the exhibition. ''Gauguin Tahiti'' will be seen in the United States only at the Museum of Fine Arts.

FOOTNOTES

Billed as unpublished, unproduced and unknown, six newly discovered scenes from ''A Streetcar Named Desire'' by Tennessee Williams will open the spring season of ''Food For Thought'' lunch-hour theater at 12:30 p.m. today at the National Arts Club at 15 Gramercy Park South, between Irving Place and Park Avenue. In this staged reading of ''Roads Not Taken: Early Unpublished Scenes From 'Streetcar,' '' Robert Cuccioli (Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde on Broadway) will portray Stanley Kowalski, and John Doman, of ''Mystic River'' and ''The Wire'' on HBO, will play Mitch. . . . Yiyun Li, the author of the short story ''Immortality,'' has been chosen the first winner of the Plimpton Prize, given by The Paris Review and named for George Plimpton, its longtime editor who died in September at 76. ''Immortality'' was cited for the prize for ''the best piece of writing by a newcomer to appear in The Paris Review in a given year,'' The Associated Press reported. Michael Chabon's novella ''The Final Solution'' won the $1,000 Aga Khan Prize for the best fiction to appear in the magazine; for ''Brown-Headed Birds'' Julie Sheehan won the $1,000 Bernard F. Conners Prize for best long poem.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A rendering of the proposed Freedom Tower to be built at ground zero. A model will be on display in ''Rethinking the Skyline: Rebuilding the City'' starting Wednesday. (Report, left.) (Photo by Dbox Inc.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); HISTORY (71%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (63%); TERRORISM (59%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Architecture; Awards, Decorations and Honors; Motion Pictures; Cannes International Film Festival; Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Freedom Tower (NYC); Architecture; Models and Replicas

COMPANY: DRIEHAUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (56%); AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (55%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (57%) Center for Architecture (NYC)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (52%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: Demetri Porphyrios; Lawrence Van Gelder; Pedro Almodovar

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004



554 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: My Anti-Stump Speech

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE. 
E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The other night, a woman came up to me and said: ''Mr. Candidate I have a 12-year-old son growing up fast. He said to me, 'Momma, I need new shoes because these old ones with the holes hurt my feet and the other kids in school are laughing at me.' But I couldn't afford no $50 on new shoes made in America.'' 
 So I said -- what did you do, Momma? 
 ''I took him to a factory outlet center. In the back of the Rockport store they were having a clearance of shoes made in China or Indo-someplace. I bought him a pair of fine leather shoes for $24. You shoulda seen my boy's face light up.'' 
 Free trade is helping that lady make ends meet because her hard-earned dollar now has more buying power. If those fast-talking protectionists had their way, the high cost of living would deny her boy those shoes. 
 You want proof? Back in 2000, the last Clinton year, inflation jumped up toward 4 percent. Those higher prices sent real average weekly wages down by half a percent, first time in years. Her ''higher'' earnings bought less. 
 But today, inflation is way down. Why? Because workers have better tools and software to help them produce more in the same time, and because cheap clothes from overseas help keep prices down. Those dirty words -- ''productivity'' and ''outsourcing'' -- are raising Americans' standard of living. 
 Have the politicians on the stump --so certain that America cannot compete in the new, global economy -- scared you with those words? Is your job really in danger of being stolen by prisoners in China or children in India? 
 Fearmongers want you to believe that unemployment is getting worse. Just the opposite is true: We've come down from over 6 percent to five and a half, but the troubadours of trouble have changed the rules about what is good news. Whenever the unemployment rate drops, gloomy-Gus politicians insist ''it's because people have given up hope and stopped looking for jobs.'' But back when unemployment was going up, did you ever hear ''it's because people are hopeful and more are out looking for jobs''? Never. 
 And media fearmongers never report the happy decline in unemployment rates without making the lead ''but the rate of job increases is lower than expected.'' From Democrats, all you hear is the mantra ''biggest job loss under Bush since Hoover.'' 
 But let's ask the pessimists: When did the job boom of the 90's begin to turn around? Who was in charge when that new measuring stick, ''job creation,'' started to show the news turning bad? It was in the year 2000, when unemployment was low and the stock market bubble was bursting. At the end of Clinton's last year, there were 380,000 fewer new jobs created than had been created at the end of 1999. 
 And where were Senators Kerry and Edwards then, when job creation started to slump? Not a peep out of either. With their fellow Democrats in charge, they closed their eyes to job growth declining and the hard time coming at us. 
 Only now -- when the Bush tax cuts have stimulated a solid new prosperity, and hundreds of thousands of new jobs are being created again -- have these Democrats discovered what an awful legacy their party left. 
 Only now is the tax-raiser from Massachusetts announcing speeches on job creation, calling low-cost producers traitors, reversing a lifetime's votes on free trade. Only now is the anti-free-trader from North Carolina reviving fears of Ross Perot's ''great sucking sound'' pulling jobs across our borders, and trying to minimize the impact of this year's bullish stock market on retirement plans of working families. 
 I stand here before you in my $24 Rockport shoes -- yes, I went and bought a pair; my momma didn't raise no fool -- and say yes, there are ''two Americas.'' 
 Pessimistic America is pandered to by politicians demanding tariff walls and costly entitlements, preaching resentment, envy, anger, class war. 
 Optimistic America responds to competition, opportunity, openness, freedom -- ready to do the business that not only creates tomorrow's jobs but spreads the prosperity that leads to peace around the world. 
 My friends, I've chosen my America. I hope it's yours. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); POLITICS (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); PROTECTIONISM (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); COST OF LIVING (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); OUTSOURCING (70%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (66%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (66%); DISMISSALS (65%) International Trade and World Market; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Labor; Standard of Living

PERSON: William Safire

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004



555 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Theory Vs. Reality

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Welcome to the 21st century. The landscape has changed. We're in a new hypercompetitive worldwide economy, driven by breathtaking advances in technology. Men and women are being added to the global work force by the hundreds of millions.
 In this dynamic, potentially very treacherous labor market, few people are looking out for the interests of the American worker. The very concept of the traditional high-paid American job, with its generous health and pension benefits and paid vacations, is at risk. 
 Senator Charles Schumer of New York sees the economic changes as a paradigm shift. In an era of high-bandwith communications and the free flow of capital, most goods and services can be produced or performed anywhere in the world. And with highly educated workers in countries like China and India ready and able to perform sophisticated tasks at a fraction of the pay earned by Americans, there are fewer and fewer reasons for those American jobs not to take flight.
 In light of these changes, said Senator Schumer, we should at least be asking some tough questions about the real-world effects of free trade as we've known it.
 Referring to David Ricardo, the 19th-century British economist whose theory of comparative advantage became the basis of free trade, Mr. Schumer said: ''Ricardo set up a model that served very, very well for a very long time. But now there are new facts on the ground.''
 The biggest and most ominous new fact for American workers is the dreadful employment environment of the current economic expansion. In terms of job creation, it's the worst expansion on record. The job growth since the recession officially ended in November 2001 has been primarily in low-paying sectors. These are not the upwardly mobile jobs long associated with entry into the American middle class.
 And they are not the kinds of jobs that free-trade advocates were promising in the 1990's, when they were hustling American factory workers, assuring them that the transfer of their jobs to low-wage countries overseas was a good thing. Globalization will be wonderful, the advocates said. There will be more jobs. Better jobs. Higher-paying jobs.
 The multinational corporations, which have had by far the biggest say in the development of America's trade policies, are thriving in the new environment. Workers are the big losers, and the losses are only beginning. We now know that offshoring or outsourcing -- whatever the term of the moment is for dumping American workers in favor of cheaper workers elsewhere -- was never going to be limited to factory jobs.
 Outsourcing is not the only reason for the employment squeeze in the U.S. But it's a significant reason. And while it's getting a lot of attention lately, it's not getting the kind of close scrutiny such a powerful economic force deserves.
 One of the great achievements of the United States has been the high standard of living of the average American worker. This was the result of many long years of struggle to obtain higher wages, shorter work weeks, health and pension benefits, paid vacations, safe working conditions, a measure of job security and so on.
 It is not an advance to move to a situation in which all of that can vanish with the flick of a computerized switch. High-quality employment is the cornerstone of the economic well-being of America's vast middle class.
 Among the questions we should be asking about the real-world effects of unrestrained trade is what happens to the U.S. economy after we've shipped so many jobs from so many sectors overseas that American families no longer have the disposable income to buy all the products and services they need to buy to keep the consumer economy going.
 That's not supposed to happen. In theory. But American workers are filled with anxiety because they understand that disaster can result when theory comes face to face with reality. One of the things that sank with the Titanic was the theory that it was unsinkable.
 In a recent column I wrote incorrectly that Bechtel had received no-bid contracts for work in Iraq. The company is operating under contracts won after limited bidding. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); OFFSHORING (77%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (62%); ETHICS (60%); TERRORISM (59%) Labor; Fringe Benefits; Ethics; Terrorism; Wages and Salaries; Correction Stories; Labor

ORGANIZATION: Bechtel Group Inc

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (75%) Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004



556 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; NEW ECONOMY

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: Debate Over Exporting Jobs Raises Questions on Policies

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
There is certainly no shortage of political heat surrounding the subject of jobs migrating abroad. On the campaign trail, Senator John Kerry routinely decries ''Benedict Arnold'' bosses. And N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers, faced an uproar after he said earlier this month that offshore outsourcing was a good thing for the economy in the long run.
 In a presidential election year, when few new jobs are being created despite a growing American economy, the issue of jobs lost to foreign competition -- and what can be done about it -- will be an important one on the campaign agenda of both Democrats and Republicans.
 Job migration, while only one factor in the current employment slump, points to two related economic challenges. 
 The first is how the United States will respond to a new wave of international competition, and the second is what policies can help displaced workers make the transition to new jobs. 
 Transplanting work, not just call center operations but also skilled professional labor like computer programming, to lower-cost nations is a manifestation of a change in the terms of trade in global competition. Such jobs can more easily be sent to India or China largely because of technology -- inexpensive telecommunications and the Internet. And China, Eastern Europe and India, which all have large numbers of well-educated workers, have entered the global trading system in earnest only in recent years.
 ''The structure of the world has changed and policy has to change as well,'' said Craig R. Barrett, chief executive of the Intel Corporation, the world's largest computer chip maker.
 Mr. Barrett is also the chairman of the Computer Systems Policy Project, a Washington-based policy and advocacy group whose members include the chief executives of leading technology companies like Hewlett-Packard, I.B.M., Dell and others. The group supports a series of policy steps intended to spur innovation and long-term job growth. The recommended steps include doubling federal spending on university research and development, extending research-and-development tax credits and an initiative to hasten the deployment of high-speed Internet services nationwide.
 Investment and innovation, to be sure, are time-tested engines of economic growth. In the 1980's, Japan seemed unstoppable, and Silicon Valley and other industries were reeling. Yet the high-tech industry soon regained its footing, mainly through innovation, as American companies led the way in personal computing and the Internet. The United States enjoyed much of the resulting wealth and job creation.
 This time, however, the interests of companies and workers are not as closely linked as they were in the 80's when both groups seemed to suffer together. For example, the American semiconductor industry lost $4 billion from 1984 to 1986 and lost 50,000 jobs in the United States.
 Today, most American companies are doing fine with profits rising, as they shop the global labor market for the best bargains. It is sensible corporate strategy, and many companies, like Intel and I.B.M., are also hiring skilled workers in America even as they send some work abroad.
 But the risk for corporate leaders is that they end up at one pole of a divisive issue -- championing innovation and global competition, seeking tax breaks and other benefits from Washington, while mostly paying lip service to the need to help displaced workers.
 Some industry representatives recognize the risk. ''Offshore outsourcing is mainly the tip of the larger issue of American competitiveness,'' said Bruce P. Mehlman, a former official in the Bush administration who is the executive director of the Computer Systems Policy Project. ''But we've got to think through and do better at helping people make the transition to new jobs.''
 Programs for worker retraining and education will require political commitment and financing. Many labor experts note that the 1,200 two-year community colleges, which do much of the nation's worker training, are an important educational resource for retraining people for new jobs. President Bush, in his State of the Union address, proposed a $250 million initiative for community colleges.
 But by cutting federal financing for other occupational education and job training programs at community colleges by roughly the same amount, the White House's budget effectively undercuts President Bush's promises.
 ''We welcome the Bush administration's sincere interest in community college job training,'' said David Baime, vice president for government relations at the American Association of Community Colleges. ''But it's about a wash in terms of money coming to the community colleges for these kinds of programs.''
 President Bush also repeated his proposal for ''personal re-employment accounts'' that would give unemployed workers up to $3,000 to spend as they wish on training, education or counseling. A personal re-employment account bill was introduced in the House last year, but never reached a floor vote. The estimated cost of the program was $3.6 billion.
 Some labor experts and economists advocate wage insurance as a way to provide displaced workers an incentive to get a new job as quickly as possible and soften the blow of lost income if the new job pays less. Most proposals would pay about half of the difference between the old job and the lower-paying new one with an upper limit on the stipend, which would last for a year or two. Wage insurance proponents say the most effective kind of retraining is often on-the-job education.
 ''Wage insurance is something we haven't really tried, but its day has come,'' said Robert B. Reich, the former labor secretary and a professor of social and economic policy at Brandeis University in Waltham, Mass.
 Robert E. Litan, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, a research organization in Washington, and Lori G. Kletzer, a professor of economics at the University of California at Santa Cruz, estimate that a wage insurance program at the current levels of unemployment would cost about $5 billion a year. Their working paper assumed a maximum yearly payment of $10,000 a worker for up to two years. A more generous maximum threshold would, of course, push up the cost of the program.
 It would not be cheap, but Mr. Litan notes that the Bush administration's tax cuts would average over $100 billion a year for 10 years. ''For a fraction of that, we could have a program that addresses the anxiety that grips both parties and much of the country,'' Mr. Litan said.
 Another approach is to restrict the migration of jobs abroad through legislation. The National Foundation for American Policy, a research group, says more than 30 bills are pending in 20 states to curb the use of offshore contractors by state and local governments.
 The Senate recently passed an amendment to the government procurement bill, sponsored by two Republican senators, Craig Thomas of Wyoming and George V. Voinovich of Ohio, that prohibits the use of offshore workers on some government jobs.
 Senator Kerry, who is seeking the Democratic presidential nomination, says he wants to repeal tax loopholes that he argues encourage companies to set up operations and hire workers overseas.
 Mr. Reich, the former labor secretary, said the idea of limiting the deductibility of jobs corporations send offshore -- payroll costs are typically fully deductible as an expense -- might be worth looking at as a short-term measure. ''There may be a case for slowing things down a bit,'' he said.
 Still, other experts say that taxes are only a minor factor in the movement, swamped by the wide salary disparities between workers in the United States and a growing number of educated people in developing countries who often bring similar skills to their jobs. 
 And many analysts are much more worried that proposals for government curbs on the use of offshore workers are the advance guard of an unfortunate drift toward trade protectionism.
 ''The impulse is understandable,'' said Clyde V. Prestowitz, president of the Economic Strategy Institute in Washington and a former trade negotiator. ''But it would be nice in a campaign year to avoid shooting ourselves in the foot if we can.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Igor Kopelnitsky)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (87%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); MICROPROCESSORS (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); OFFSHORING (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (68%); COMPUTER CHIPS (67%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (67%); CALL CENTERS (67%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); EXECUTIVES (63%); SEMICONDUCTORS (60%) Labor; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; International Trade and World Market; Unemployment; United States Economy; Labor

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (83%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (58%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (83%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%) Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004



557 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Bush to Revisit Changes in Medicaid Rules

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 22 

 BODY:
After strenuous protests from governors of both parties, the Bush administration said Sunday that it would reconsider tough new rules on the financing of Medicaid that could limit the states' ability to provide health care for millions of poor people.
 Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, conveyed the administration's decision to governors here for the winter meeting of the National Governors Association.
 Though formal sessions of the association focused on issues that cut across party lines, like Medicaid, education and highway construction, presidential politics dominated many conversations among governors.
 Democratic governors expressed alarm at the loss of jobs, especially those in manufacturing, and the growth of the federal budget deficit in the past three years, while Republicans insisted that the economy was bouncing back. 
 ''President Bush does not appear to have an understanding of the pain caused by unemployment,'' said Gov. Tom Vilsack of Iowa, chairman of the Democratic Governors Association. Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan, a Democrat, said Mr. Bush's tax cuts were not producing new jobs in her state.
 Gov. Bob Taft of Ohio, chairman of the Republican Governors Association, said: ''Consumer confidence is up. The stock market is up. All economic indicators are moving in the right direction.'' Another Republican, Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, tried to dispel the perception that his party saw the shift of service jobs from the United States to other countries as part of some global economic strategy. ''We are concerned any time any job leaves our shores and goes somewhere else,'' Mr. Romney said.
 State officials say soaring Medicaid costs have put them in a fiscal vise, as revenue collections have been stagnant in recent years.
 Federal officials did not withdraw the proposed Medicaid rules but promised to consult governors and to solicit public comment for 60 days before enacting the restrictions.
 The restrictions would give federal officials sweeping new power to review state decisions on Medicaid spending and the sources of revenue used by states to pay their share of Medicaid costs.
 Medicaid provides health benefits to 50 million people a year and is financed jointly by the federal government and the states. But federal officials say states have used creative bookkeeping and other ploys to obtain large amounts of federal Medicaid money without paying their share.
 The proposed changes have touched off an uproar among state officials. Gov. Dirk Kempthorne of Idaho, a Republican who is chairman of the National Governors Association, said the federal government was imposing ''new administrative requirements and new costs on the states.''
 Gov. Ruth Ann Minner of Delaware, a Democrat, said, ''We don't want all that extra paperwork.''
 Gov. Phil Bredesen of Tennessee, a Democrat, said the federal government was now reneging on financial arrangements that it approved just a few years ago.
 ''The federal government ought to honor its commitments and certainly should not characterize these arrangements as cheating on the part of the states,'' Mr. Bredesen said in an interview.
 In a letter to the governors, Mr. Thompson, a former governor of Wisconsin, said he would work with them to avoid a confrontation over the president's Medicaid proposal.
 ''I intend to enter into consultations on the proposal with the states through the National Governors Association and the National Association of State Medicaid Directors,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''Once those consultations are complete, I intend to republish the notice in the Federal Register and provide for a 60-day formal comment period.''
 Many governors also raised questions about details of the new Medicare law, signed by President Bush in early December. Under the law, the federal government will assume some of the prescription drug costs now paid by states for low-income people entitled to both Medicaid and Medicare.
 That change will eventually save money for the states. But in the next few years, states expect to incur additional costs, as they determine who is eligible for federal subsidies intended to help low-income people pay for their medicines.
 Mr. Bush's latest budget request would reduce federal Medicaid payments to states for new computer systems to evaluate eligibility and to detect Medicaid fraud. On Sunday, a committee of the governors association approved a resolution opposing such cuts.
 Congress last year provided $20 billion in emergency financial relief to the states, which said they were experiencing the worst fiscal problems since World War II. Half the money was earmarked for Medicaid. The Medicaid money runs out June 30.
 Mr. Kempthorne said the governors association was ''not advocating extension'' of the temporary federal aid. But he said he hoped the Bush administration would give the states more discretion to decide who received what benefits under Medicaid.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 24, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday with an article about the winter meeting of the National Governors Association misidentified one governor. He was Joseph E. Kernan of Indiana, not Ernie Fletcher of Kentucky.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the governors meeting, from left front: Kathleen Sebelius, Kansas
Bob Riley, Alabama
Arnold Schwarzenegger, California
Dirk Kempthorne, Idaho. Rear: Judy Martz, Montana
Jennifer M. Granholm, Michigan
Ernie Fletcher, Kentucky
 Bill Owens, Colorado. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (94%); MEDICAID (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); POLITICS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (68%); TAX LAW (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (55%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (55%) Medicine and Health; Medicaid; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Accounting and Accountants; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: National Governors Assn

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TOMMY THOMPSON (73%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (73%); ERNIE FLETCHER (58%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); RUTH ANN MINNER (58%); PHIL BREDESEN (58%); DIRK KEMPTHORNE (58%); TOM VILSACK (57%) Tommy G (Sec) Thompson; George W (Pres) Bush; Robert Pear

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004



558 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE MASSACHUSETTS SENATOR

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: On Foray Into the South, Kerry Gets a Spirited Welcome

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Feb. 22 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry wants to prove he can win in the South, and on Sunday hundreds of voters mobbed a theater here in the heart of a wealthy Republican neighborhood for a town hall session that quickly turned into a rollicking lovefest.
 Nearly 1,000 people crowded inside, eavesdropped from the lobby or strained to hear from the sidewalk on Peachtree Street.
 ''We're here to mark the beginning of the end of the Bush presidency,'' Mr. Kerry said, a standard line from his stump speech, and the crowd went wild. 
 But the crowd's response may not have shed much light on whether Mr. Kerry, who is from Massachusetts, could win the South: this was not an average audience for Buckhead, the wealthy district of shopping malls, manicured lawns, sprawling mansions and solidly Republican politics.
 ''You're missing the right wing: the Republicans, the rich people,'' Julie Sullivan said after listening on her feet as Mr. Kerry spoke for an hour and a half.
 Atlanta, in any case, is hardly representative of Georgia, let alone the South at large: the first question Mr. Kerry faced was from a transgendered veteran who wanted to know whether Mr. Kerry would leave no transgendered American behind. Mr. Kerry said he favored hate-crime legislation and the proposed Employment Non-Discrimination Act.
 At the very least, though, the campaign stop may have showed that Mr. Kerry has no trouble winning over audiences of blacks and liberal voters, as well as those who are angriest about President Bush's leadership.
 Doris Bennett, for example, declared herself a ''recovering Republican'' before asking in a shaky voice about the USA Patriot Act.
 ''I have a single-step program for you: vote for Kerry,'' the candidate replied.
 On Sunday, Mr. Kerry also faced stepped-up attacks from allies of President Bush, whom Mr. Kerry accused on Saturday of initiating a smear campaign against his patriotism and commitment to the nation's defense. But his swing through Atlanta was anything but hostile.
 At Ebenezer Baptist Church, the congregation of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Mr. Kerry prayed alongside another church member, Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia, a leader in the civil rights movement who endorsed Mr. Kerry last week.
 Mr. Kerry did not speak, but the senior pastor, the Rev. Dr. Joseph L. Roberts Jr., told his flock to learn ''about his vast experience in foreign policy, about the fact that he turned down the Appropriations Committee to work in foreign policy -- and certainly, if anything is in need of assistance, it is America's posture in foreign policy.''
 Shortly before the service ended, Coretta Scott King, Dr. King's widow, quietly took a seat in the back row, where she was noticed by almost no one. In what appeared to be a prearranged encounter, Mr. Kerry and Mrs. King greeted each other warmly as he was ushered out to the lobby. 
 At the town hall meeting in Buckhead, another royal Atlanta widow made an unadvertised appearance: Valerie Jackson, whose husband, Maynard, the legendary former mayor of Atlanta, died last year. But she spoke of an earlier love, a marine who was killed three days before he was to have come home from Vietnam.
 ''All I got to greet was a coffin box with a flag draped over it,'' Ms. Jackson said. ''We need a president who is courageous enough to say from personal experience that war is not the answer.''
 It was a liberal crowd, with questions about the ''prison-industrial complex,'' for example, and Mr. Kerry did his best Phil Donahue, darting here and there with microphone in hand. 
 It was also a very friendly crowd. An 18-year-old asked what the economy would be like when she graduated college ''after your first term.'' And a man urged Mr. Kerry to ignore Republican attacks.
 ''Stay on point, don't be reactive,'' the man said. ''We love what you're doing.''
 Mr. Kerry turned to the crowd and pleaded innocent: ''I didn't plant him here,'' he said.
 As Mr. Kerry stumped in Atlanta, the chairman of President Bush's re-election campaign, Marc Racicot, redoubled Republican attacks on Mr. Kerry's military voting record but denied that to do so was to question Mr. Kerry's patriotism.
 ''I also ask you to elevate the remarkably negative tone of your campaign and your party over the past year,'' Mr. Racicot said in a letter to Mr. Kerry that cited Democratic attacks on the president that went largely unanswered until the last few weeks.
 On Saturday, after similar criticism from a Bush ally, Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, Mr. Kerry challenged the president to a debate on the Vietnam War era and ''the impact of our experiences on our approaches to presidential leadership.''
 After the town hall meeting, Mr. Kerry was reminded of the audience member who had urged him not to take Republicans' bait.
 ''Well, you've got to push back a little bit to make sure people understand,'' he said. ''I voted for the strongest defense budgets in our country's history, strongest intelligence budget. People need to know it, to be certain. That's why they're raising the issue, to cast a seed of doubt. I'm not going to allow that doubt.''
 Mr. Kerry said the election would come down to ''a matter of trust and vision: where you want the country to go and whether you can be trusted to take it there.''
 ''The president promised he'd create several million jobs; he's lost several million jobs,'' Mr. Kerry added. ''He promised he would have fair trade; he's never stood up and fought for trade. He promised that he wouldn't dig into Social Security; he is. He promised 'leave no child behind'; he's leaving millions of children behind. He promised he would have health care that's affordable; he's lost, two million people have lost their health care, and it's becoming less affordable.
 ''So I think it's a matter of keeping your promises,'' Mr. Kerry said, ''of whether you say one thing and do another, which is what this administration has done.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Valerie Jackson, widow of Maynard H. Jackson Jr., made an unadvertised appearance yesterday at an Atlanta town hall meeting with John Kerry. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (85%); LOBBYING (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); US PATRIOT ACT (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); HATE CRIME (67%); CRIMINAL LAW (65%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (65%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); RETAILERS (54%) Presidential Election of 2004; Blacks

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN LEWIS (79%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%) John (Sen) Kerry; David M Halbfinger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Atlanta (Ga); Georgia; Southern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004



559 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1; The Many Channels That Say Home

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: Wave of Foreign TV Becomes an 'Emotional Outlet' for Immigrants

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
The global village is breaking into its global parts.
 Walk around the immigrant quarters of Jackson Heights or Flushing in northern Queens, and televisions are tuned to shows from other countries. 
 In Jong Ro Barber Shop, on Union Street in Flushing, customers waiting for $17 haircuts watch soap operas from South Korea on the tidy shop's Samsung television, riveted by melodramas with the same languid pace, low-rent sets and overwrought music of American soaps, but in a language that lets them feel at home. ''I do watch American TV, but for an emotional outlet I need Korean TV,'' said Soo Oh Choi, the shop's owner, speaking through a translator. 
 In Jackson Heights, Aashish Patel and half a dozen compatriots gathered this month at a local motel for a Super Bowl party of sorts, complete with beer and potato chips. The world-class game they watched until dawn was not football, but cricket between India and Australia beamed from abroad. 
 ''We feel we are in India like that,'' Mr. Patel said.
 Hundreds of thousands of immigrants in New York and millions more across the United States receive these foreign channels. UHF long ago expanded into the ethnic market with Spanish-language channels and stations like KTV in New York, which has been broadcasting Korean programs since 1995. But the number of international channels has mushroomed in the past five years because of the feverish competition between satellite and cable companies. 
 Immigrants who arrived in the 1950's and 60's often used television to learn American idioms and mores; baseball alone was a master teacher. But some scholars worry that the availability of international channels makes it too easy for immigrants to continue to cling to their homelands. Neal Gabler, senior fellow at the Norman Lear Center for the Study of Entertainment and Society at the University of Southern California, said that although the phenomenon of foreign channels produces many benefits, it chips away at the ''common cultural references'' that have allowed for whatever melting is supposed to take place in the American pot.
 ''The things that unite us will be lost in another competing identity,'' Mr. Gabler said. 
 The satellite provider Dish Network offers 50 international or foreign-language channels, including Polish and Portuguese. Across the country, Time Warner Cable offers 37, including channels in Arabic, Russian, German, Greek, Persian, Filipino and Vietnamese. In New York City alone, more than 90,000 of Time Warner's customers get the international channels.
 These channels are laying another set of bridges between immigrants here and their native lands, joining jet planes, cheap long-distance calling and the Internet. Immigrants can follow the same catastrophes and laugh at the same homespun jokes as their kin and friends overseas. Relative newcomers can relax in front of a television without being baffled by English. They can also immerse their children in their native tongues, narrowing the generational distance typical in immigrant families.
 Pyong Gap Min, a Korean-born professor of sociology at Queens College who speaks English fluently, watches Korean soap operas and movies almost every night with his wife. ''It's very special to me,'' he said. Still, he worries that some immigrants may be using television to isolate themselves. 
 ''In a foreign environment they live comfortably, enjoying Korean food, going to Korean churches, working in Korean businesses and now seeing Korean television,'' he said. ''This frees them from learning American English and American customs.'' 
 But other immigrants think such concerns are unwarranted.
 ''During the day you're surrounded by American culture,'' said Mudassar Khan, 27, a Pakistani who runs an electronic appliance store in Jackson Heights. ''The only time you feel Pakistani culture is when you're home watching TV.''
 Even before cable and satellite television became widely available, Puerto Ricans, Mexicans and other Hispanics watched television in Spanish over UHF networks based in the United States, like Telemundo and Univision. These networks proved that a mix of soap operas, entertainment, game shows and news in a native language can draw a profitable audience. By the late-1980's, recalled Barry Rosenblum, president of Time Warner Cable of New York and New Jersey, his company was hearing from Greek, Korean and Indian businessmen who also wanted to start channels that would package programs from overseas, supplemented with news of their New York ethnic neighborhoods. 
 For roughly $9.95 a month above the price of a standard cable package in the New York-New Jersey region, Time Warner offers two Chinese, two Indian and two Korean channels, and individual channels in Italian, Russian, Arabic, Greek and Japanese and a catch-all Latin American channel. It also offers a separate package of about 15 channels from Spain and Latin America. 
 The satellite dishes sprouting over the roofs of Queens testify to the growing popularity of a younger technology. A division of EchoStar Communications, Dish Network, which has been broadcasting foreign channels since 1996, now offers 50 channels. DirecTV, controlled by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, offers 45 Spanish-language channels and several channels originating in China, Taiwan and Hong Kong. Stephanie Campbell, its senior vice president for programming, said ''we are definitely looking to expand'' into other ethnic niches as the company develops more satellite capacity. Both companies declined to say how many customers they had for their ethnic channels.
 Michael Schwimmer, senior vice president for programming of Dish Network, pointed out that foreign television stations are eager to broadcast in the United States. ''Networks are always looking for eyeballs,'' he said. ''Traditionally they look in their own country, but if they can get eyeballs outside the country and a company like EchoStar can help them do it economically, they'll want to do business with us.''
 Some channels are beamed directly from abroad to providers here and then quickly distributed to home televisions. Others are repackaged here by local entrepreneurs from either satellite feeds or videotapes. The foreign broadcasts are usually delayed, timed to American hours and cleansed of advertising for products that immigrants here cannot buy. Cricket games, broadcast live by Dish Network with an eye on its South Asian audience, are a separate paid offering. 
 Mr. Rosenblum of Time Warner does not accept the criticism that ethnic channels impede assimilation. ''My sense is that nobody sits down and just watches the Greek channel or the Indian channel,'' he said. ''They're part of packages widely available to people, so it gives people a connection to where they're from, but it doesn't cut them off from where they are.'' 
 Mr. Choi, the Korean barber who is fond of Korean soap operas, said he also likes to watch golf, basketball and the programs on Animal Planet. 
 Mr. Khan, the electronics store owner, who immigrated here as a teenager 12 years ago and graduated from Bryant High School in Queens and Baruch College, said he mostly watched American television. Still he orders the Dish Network's South Asian package of Indian and Pakistani channels for his parents, Mohammad and Sanjeeda Khan, with whom he lives. 
 They like to watch Pakistani news, a Pakistani soap opera called ''Lab-e-Derya'' and two popular Indian serials about working women, ''Jassi Jaissi Koi Nahin'' and ''Kkusum.'' (The spoken forms of Pakistan's Urdu and India's Hindi are closely related.) He often watches the soaps with them and has noted the differences from American television.
 ''When a guy gets married, he usually lives in the same house with his parents,'' Mr. Khan said, citing one example. ''In the English soap operas, the kids move out.'' 
 Anil Merchant, who came here 19 years ago from Bombay, keeps the television in his beauty salon on 74th Street in Jackson Heights tuned to an Indian TV channel that broadcasts a stream of MTV-like songs expressed in sinuous dance numbers, and he also likes to keep up with the doings of Indian politicians. ''This goes into the small towns and interior in India,'' he said of the Indian channel. ''CNN doesn't cover it.'' 
 ''We don't know John Kerry,'' he said. ''We heard about him, but we're more interested in Indian politics.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Nandubnai Patel, left, joined friends this month at a motel in Jackson Heights, Queens, to watch a cricket match between India and Australia. Hundreds of thousands of immigrants in New York enjoy a slice of home with foreign programming. (Photo by Michael Kamber for The New York Times)
Pakistani
Korean
Chinese
Indian
Russian
Spanish
Greek
 French 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (76%); CHILDREN (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); SNACK FOODS (73%); CABLE INDUSTRY (70%); SOCIOLOGY (66%); TRENDS (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); BASEBALL (53%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%) Television; Immigration and Refugees; Social Conditions and Trends; Children and Youth; Language and Languages; Television

COMPANY: DISH NETWORK CORP (54%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (51%)

TICKER: DISH (NASDAQ) (54%); TWC (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%)

PERSON: Joseph Berger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDIA (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004



560 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: Luxuries, at a Cost

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 In ''Promises, Promises'' (column, Feb. 16), Bob Herbert discusses unemployment and the international outsourcing of jobs, problems that he says ''go to the very heart of the American way of life.'' 
 Outsourcing is not the fault of the Bush administration, but it is the consequence of the American way of life. We cannot do without luxury homes, cosmetics, prepared foods and designer clothing. Our luxuries require salaries that a prudent corporate America is unwilling to pay. 
 We want our incomes to be adequate to support our addiction to non-necessities, but we also want our commodities at commodity prices. We have not realized that one comes at the expense of the other.
 When a foreign worker, living frugally, produces the same for less, that is basic economics, the manipulation of which is beyond the purview of a president.

JOHN V. RUTLEDGE
Myrtle Beach, S.C., Feb. 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COSMETICS (69%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy; Income; Unemployment

PERSON: John V Rutledge; George W (Pres) Bush; Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: MYRTLE BEACH, SC, USA (50%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004



561 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8; BUSINESS TRAVEL

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Flattery and Other Ways to Bend Rules

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER ELLIOTT

 BODY:
As far as Wendy Shear is concerned, airline rules are meant to be bent, if not broken.
 Ms. Shear, a documentary filmmaker who lives in Los Angeles, routinely checks in luggage that weighs more than her free allowance. She waits for her flights in the United Airlines Red Carpet Club, drinking free bottled water, even though she is not a club member. ''And I can't remember the last time I sat in economy class,'' she said. 
 Like a growing number of business travelers, Ms. Shear believes that for every new rule or restriction that the airlines devise, there is a way around it.
 A $100 change fee on a nonrefundable ticket? Try the first-class lounge, where the attentive staff is reluctant to use the word ''no.'' Excess luggage fee? A low-key conversation about the travails of life on the road is sometimes enough to make an overworked ticket agent look the other way. No room in first class? Once they are placed on a waiting list for an upgrade, Ms. Shear and other business travelers are finding other ways to work their way to the front of the cabin.
 ''If you want to get around the rules, being a frequent flier isn't enough anymore,'' said Joel L. Widzer, author of ''The Penny Pincher's Passport to Luxury Travel'' (Travelers' Tales Guides, 2004). In a recent poll of elite travelers, he found that waving the frequent-flier card -- a long-favored tactic when a business traveler hits a roadblock with an airline -- is losing some of its effectiveness. Replacing it is a new, more complex strategy that can involve arguing, appealing a request to a supervisor, begging and sometimes laying on the flattery.
 Consider Ms. Shear, who is not an elite-level frequent flier on United. ''It doesn't matter if you're a triple-plutonium-mile member,'' she argued. ''A sense of entitlement, aggression or just plain rude behavior will get you nowhere. A smile, 'please' and 'thank you,' on the other hand, are a good beginning.''
 Instead of writing to complain about poor service, her letters to the airline point out positive experiences: A crew member that makes a special effort to deliver good customer service, or a memorable flight. Maybe that is one reason, even though Ms. Shear invariably starts off at the bottom of an upgrade waiting list, she often leapfrogs over other travelers with a higher status to claim a choice seat.
 ''It's to the point where if it looks as if they might not have room for me in first class, the ticket agents start apologizing,'' she said.
 Business travelers have been trying to bend the rules since there have been rules to bend, of course. But lately, it seems, there have been a lot more regulations to try to get around. Two years ago, airlines became more diligent about charging change fees for nonrefundable tickets. They also clamped down on overweight luggage, adding excess fees for overweight bags. The new policy was often referred to as ''no waivers, no favors.'' 
 It turned out the carriers were just warming up. In recent months, they have trimmed their frequent-flier programs, making it more difficult to qualify for elite status. They have cut everything from free meals to the amount of legroom in coach class.
 How are business travelers coping? Sandy Robinson, an accountant from Goodlettsville, Tenn., says a combination of mileage status, sound logic and above all, politeness can land her a first-class seat, a lounge pass or a free ticket change.
 In extreme cases, buttering up a weary service provider can work wonders. Ms. Robinson recently tried to change the date and time on a ticket at an airport ticket counter. It happened to be Mother's Day, and her hotel had given her a two-rose corsage.
 ''When I asked the female airline employee if she missed being with her children on Mother's Day because she had to work, she looked very sad,'' she said. ''I took off my corsage and told her she should wear it.''
 The ticket agent made the change and posted it as an airline error in the reservations system, saving her $100 in change fees.
 ''Sometimes a small amount of flattery or small talk, a look of extreme exhaustion and a sincere thank you, do the trick,'' she said. ''If all else fails, I do remind them how much money I spend with their carrier and how many points I've never had the time to use.''
 Carver Farrow, a managing partner for a law firm in San Jose, Calif., grew so weary of being told no when he traveled that he began looking for employees who would give him another answer. He found them in the airport lounge.
 ''The staff members are trained to be more accommodating, since they generally deal with elite-level travelers,'' he said. That may not be the only reason the clubs are a way around the rules.
 At American Airlines, for instance, the Admirals Club staff reports to a vice president for sales, whose views about making customers happy are likely to differ from those of the manager in charge of reservations.
 An American Airlines spokesman, Tim Wagner, acknowledged that club members did receive special treatment, which can include having fees and rules waived. ''These are our most loyal customers, so we go out of our way to make them happy,'' he said.
 Richard Kraus, a consultant from Annandale, Va., remembers a Thanksgiving Day flight with his family, where a helpful Admirals Club agent rebooked them on an earlier flight so they could make it home in time for dinner. It did not cost them a dime.
 Sometimes, an impassioned plea to waive the rules also does the trick. That was the experience of Colleen Hughes, a public health consultant from Sparks, Nev., who recently missed a flight from Orlando, to Reno, Nev., with a connection in Nashville. She wanted to buy lunch before the long flight, and ended up cutting it too close.
 ''I panicked,'' she remembered. Her airline, Southwest, could have forced her to buy a new ticket, but instead it rerouted her on another flight through Phoenix at no charge. ''The agent simply bent the rules for me,'' she said.
 Not everyone approves of all the tactics business travelers use to get special treatment.
 Matthew Bennett, the editor of a newsletter for elite travelers and the Web site FirstClassFlyer.com, said in airline circles that these rule-benders were commonly called finaglers. He believed that their efforts hurt business travelers as a group more often than it helped them.
 Airlines frown on many of the strategies, including practices like making a series of dummy reservations in the first-class cabin and then canceling them in the hopes of securing a standby upgrade.
 ''When you have this group of frequent travelers trying to get around the rules,'' he wondered, ''where does that leave the ones who play by the rules?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Wendy Shear, a documentary filmmaker in Los Angeles, says that ''please'' and ''thank you'' go a long way toward improving seat assignments and traveling perks on flights and at airport clubs. (Photo by Stephanie Diani for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); AIR FARES (78%); TICKET AGENCIES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); BOTTLED WATER (72%); WRITERS (65%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (60%) Airlines and Airplanes; Customs, Etiquette and Manners; Airports

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); TRAVELERS' TALES (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: Chris Elliott; Wendy Shear

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



562 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: The Americano Dream

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Samuel Huntington is one of the most eminent political scientists in the world. His essay ''The Clash of Civilizations'' set off an international debate, and now Huntington sees another clash of civilizations, this time within the United States. 
 ''In this new era,'' he writes in his forthcoming book, ''Who Are We,'' ''the single most immediate and most serious challenge to America's traditional identity comes from the immense and continuing immigration from Latin America, especially Mexico.''
 These new immigrants, he argues, are not like earlier immigrants. Many have little interest in assimilating. ''As their numbers increase, Mexican-Americans feel increasingly comfortable with their own culture and often contemptuous of American culture,'' Huntington argues. 
 Instead of climbing the ladder of success, he says, Mexican and other Latino immigrants are slow to learn English. They remain in overwhelmingly Hispanic neighborhoods and regions and tend not to disperse, as other groups have. Their education levels, even into the fourth generation, are far below that of other groups. They are less likely to start companies or work their way up into managerial and professional jobs.
 Most important, Huntington concludes, they tend not to buy into the basic American creed, which is the bedrock of our national identity and our political culture. ''There is no Americano dream,'' Huntington writes, ''There is only the American dream created by an Anglo-Protestant society. Mexican-Americans will share in that dream and in that society only if they dream in English.''
 Obviously, Huntington is not pulling his punches. You can read an excerpt from the book in the new issue of Foreign Policy magazine at www.foreignpolicy.com. You'll find that Huntington marshals a body of evidence to support his claims. But the most persuasive evidence is against him. Mexican-American assimilation is a complicated topic because Mexican-Americans are such a diverse group. The educated assimilate readily; those who come from peasant villages take longer. But they are assimilating.
 It's easy to find evidence that suggests this is so. In their book, ''Remaking the American Mainstream,'' Richard Alba of SUNY-Albany and Victor Nee of Cornell point out that though there are some border neighborhoods where immigrants are slow to learn English, Mexicans nationwide know they must learn it to get ahead. By the third generation, 60 percent of Mexican-American children speak only English at home. 
 Nor is it true that Mexican immigrants are scuttling along the bottom of the economic ladder. An analysis of 2000 census data by the USC urban planner Dowell Myers suggests that Latinos are quite adept at climbing out of poverty. Sixty-eight percent of those who have been in this country 30 years own their own homes.
 Mexican immigrants are in fact dispersing around the nation. When they have children, they tend to lose touch with their Mexican villages and sink roots here. If you look at consumer data, you find that while they may spend more money on children's clothes and less on electronics than native-born Americans, there are no significant differences between Mexican-American lifestyles and other American lifestyles. They serve in the military -- and die for this nation -- at comparable rates. 
 Frankly, something's a little off in Huntington's use of the term ''Anglo-Protestant'' to describe American culture. There is no question that we have all been shaped by the legacies of Jonathan Edwards and Benjamin Franklin. But the mentality that binds us is not well described by the words ''Anglo'' or ''Protestant.''
 We are bound together because we Americans share a common conception of the future. History is not cyclical for us. Progress does not come incrementally, but can be achieved in daring leaps. That mentality burbles out of Hispanic neighborhoods, as any visitor can see.
 Huntington is right that Mexican-Americans lag at school. But that's in part because we've failed them. Our integration machinery is broken. But if we close our borders to new immigration, you can kiss goodbye the new energy, new tastes and new strivers who want to lunge into the future.
 That's the real threat to the American creed.

Paul Krugman is on vacation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); LITERATURE (76%); REFUGEES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); CHILDREN (72%); RELIGION (65%); CENSUS (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Books and Literature; Mexican-Americans

PERSON: David Brooks; Samuel P Huntington

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (94%); LATIN AMERICA (77%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



563 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Study Finds Global Trade Benefits Are Uneven

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 23 

 BODY:
The uneven benefits of globalization are creating a growing divide between rich and poor countries, as well as within countries, according to a two-year study by the United Nations' labor organization. 
 The report found that the opening of borders, new trade agreements and the establishment of the World Trade Organization after the end of the cold war failed to speed the growth of global gross national product, which lagged behind the economic performance of previous decades. 
 Entitled ''A Fair Globalization,'' the study was commissioned by the International Labor Organization and prepared by 20 officials and experts, including Joseph E. Stiglitz, the American economist who won the 2001 Nobel in economic science. 
 The underlying premise was that ''the potential of the global market economy for good is immense and has demonstrated great productive capacity for hundreds of millions of people.'' 
 The authors were asked to describe the social and economic dimensions of globalization that have spawned the growing antagonism toward trade in hopes of finding a way to reduce the pain and point to ways to regulate trade and development.
 Echoing sentiments heard during the current Democratic campaign for president, the reports' two co-chairmen, Tarja Halonen, the president of Finland, and Benjamin William Mkapa, the president of Tanzania, wrote: ''Currently, globalization is a divisive subject. It verges on a dialogue of the deaf, both nationally and internationally. Yet the future of our countries, and the destiny of our globe, demands that we all rethink globalization.''
 The report, to be released on Tuesday in London, found that 188 million people are unemployed worldwide, or 6.2 percent of the labor force; that the gap between rich and poor nations has widened, with countries representing 14 percent of the world's population accounting for half the world's trade and foreign investment; and that in the developing world, women have been harmed more than men by globalization. 
 The report also said that women's traditional livelihoods as subsistence farmers or small producers have been undermined by foreign subsidized agriculture or foreign imports but, as women, they face cultural barriers when looking for alternative occupations. 
 Within some rich nations -- Britain, Canada and the United States -- the gap between rich and poor has grown wider as well. The United States posted the greatest gap, with the top 1 percent earning 17 percent of the gross income, ''a level last seen in the 1920's.''
 Globalization has also affected the rate of taxes collected by countries, the report said. In the world's 30 wealthiest nations, the average level of corporate tax fell from 37.6 percent in 1996 to 30.8 percent in 2003.
 The report did note two bright spots: China and India, the two Asian nations with a third of the world's population.
 While the number of people living in absolute poverty worldwide declined from 1.2 billion in 1990 to 1.1 billion in 2000, most of the improvement was in China and India. 
 The report argues that globalization is at a turning point and international institutions need to address social inequities as well as other consequences of open borders.
 Globalization's ''volatility threatens both rich and poor,'' the report said. ''Open societies are threatened by global terrorism, and the future of open markets is increasingly in question.'' 
 Among the suggestions offered to expand the benefits of globalization were: improved international governance, more transparency in trade laws, better protection for people and goods crossing borders, increasing development assistance to poorer nations and better enforcement of international labor standards and immigration rights. 
 Arguing that globalization has its most direct effect on people through their work and employment, the report called for the enforcement of the four core international labor standards. They are the right to organize and bargain collectively, the elimination of compulsory labor, the abolition of child labor and the ending of discrimination in employment.
 Both leading candidates for the Democratic nomination for president -- Senator John F. Kerry of Massachusetts and Senator John Edwards of North Carolina -- have made the enforcement of those labor standards part of their trade agendas.
 In its trade agreements, the Bush administration calls on countries to enforce their labor laws. Most nations subscribe to these standards.
 The report said, however, these standards are often ignored and pointed to an estimated 246 million child laborers worldwide, as well as continued forced labor in agriculture, the military and sex work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); GLOBALIZATION (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); COLD WAR (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); WRITERS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); DEAFNESS (66%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (57%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Third World and Developing Countries; International Trade and World Market; Gross Domestic Product; Labor; Unemployment; Foreign Investments; Women; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (83%) United Nations; International Labor Organization; World Trade Organization

PERSON: TARJA HALONEN (50%) Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%); FINLAND (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



564 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: Met Adding Space to Get Works Out of Storage

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Museum of Art is creating thousands of square feet of new exhibition space, including a grand Roman Court and renovated Islamic galleries, substantially increasing the number of artworks it is able to display. 
 The $155 million remodeling project, to be announced today, will allow the museum to display world-famous pieces like its richly decorated Etruscan chariot, which has been in storage since the early 1990's.
 The project, along the south end of the building, will expose the windows facing Central Park for the first time in 50 years. The remodeling is part of a 10-year-old plan aimed at using every inch of the museum's existing space in Central Park.
 The museum will also renovate galleries devoted to 19th-century art, modern art and modern photography. Work is scheduled to begin within days in the space where the old restaurant was. There, a new Roman Court -- a skylit room with double-height ceilings punctuated with limestone columns -- is to be installed to house Hellenistic and Roman art, increasing the works on view to 7,500 from 2,500. It is scheduled to open in spring 2007. 
 The museum is not permitted by the city to extend its footprint in the park, a challenge that Philippe de Montebello, the Met's director, called a domino game. 
 The Met recently completed renovating its galleries devoted to Egyptian, Chinese, Cypriot, Korean and Indian art. A new restaurant opened in June in the area under the Medieval sculpture court. 
 The money for the recent renovations and the new project comes from private sources, officials at the museum said. The Met is increasing its decade-old fund-raising drive by $250 million, making it a $900 million campaign, which experts say is thought to be the largest in the history of museums. Most of the $250 million will be for construction costs, but $22 million will go toward increasing the museum's $1.5 billion endowment to finance the operation of the new spaces. 
 ''This is the grand orchestral coda to the reinstallation of our Classical galleries,'' Mr. de Montebello said late last week. He said he has spent years studying historic buildings -- from Roman villas to the Colosseum -- to come up with the most appropriate architecture for the new Roman Court. Mr. de Montebello also assessed every nook and cranny, from air shafts to stairwells, to determine how best to use the museum's space to keep pace with its vast and growing collections.
 The design of the Roman Court echoes in spirit what McKim, Mead & White, who designed and built the space, originally envisioned for it in the early years of the 20th century. After World War I, however, money was scarce and their elaborate design was abandoned. It will be called the Leon Levy and Shelby White Roman Court, named after a financier and collector who died last April and his wife, a longtime Met trustee. 
 The museum will also renovate its galleries of Etruscan and Islamic art, which have not been touched in 30 years. The Met closed its Islamic galleries in June, but some of its collection has been moved to vitrines on the balcony above the Great Hall, once dominated by Asian ceramics.
 At the same time the Met is gearing up for ''Byzantium: Faith and Power, 1261-1557,'' which is to open on March 23. The new Islamic galleries, scheduled for completion in late 2007 or early 2008, will house 12,000 objects, including paintings, calligraphy, ceramics, tiles, glass and metalwork dating from the 7th to the 19th centuries. 
 Part of the intention, said Harold Holzer, the museum's vice president for communication, ''is to show a side of Islamic culture not often discussed these days.'' 
 Included in the plans are new spaces for the 19th- and 20th-century art collections. The museum will also rebuild the Ruth and Harold D. Uris Center for Education, visited by 125,000 schoolchildren every year. 
 Kevin Roche, John Dinkeloo & Associates, the firm that has masterminded and overseen the Met's expansions and renovations for the last 30 years, developed the design for the project. In addition to the Roman Court, the adjacent galleries along Fifth Avenue and the space on the mezzanine and the first floor, which had been offices and bathrooms, will become galleries for the museum's collection of Etruscan art, Hellenistic art and arts of south Italy and Sicily. 
 The art on view, much of which has not been seen for decades, will include portraits of Roman emperors including Augustus, Caligula and Antoninus Pius, as well as a display of Roman funerary sculpture featuring the ornate Badminton Sarcophagus, which depicts the triumph of the god Dionysus. In the galleries along Fifth Avenue the museum's collection of frescos excavated at Boscoreale, including its famous Pompeiian bedroom, will be on display. Until recently the bedroom was on view next to the museum's coat check room. The Etruscan chariot will occupy center stage in the mezzanine galleries overlooking the Roman Court. 
 In addition to rethinking its space, the museum's curators have changed the way they will present their collections. Rather than show things by medium -- putting, say, all the bronzes or all the vases together -- the installations will be more cross-cultural, so that objects can be seen in the context of their time. ''You travel through a much broader spectrum,'' Mr. de Montebello said. ''It is the way people think today.'' 
 Above the Oceanic galleries, the Met plans to construct new galleries, adding 9,000 square feet of space for 19th-century art, modern art and photography. ''This will give us elbow room in which to grow our collection of 21st-century art,'' Mr. de Montebello said. 
 So far the museum has raised about $680 million, and E. John Rosenwald Jr., a trustee who is the executive chairman of the campaign, does not foresee a problem raising the rest. ''We'll get there,'' he said. ''We have an uptick in the economy, and we're constantly trying to grow our market.'' The Dillons, the Astors and the Annenbergs were huge benefactors in the past, but Mr. Rosenwald stressed that the museum would ''have to drill new wells.'' 
 Like most of New York's cultural institutions, the Met is experiencing flattening revenues and rising expenses. Still, Mr. Rosenwald believes now is the time to forge ahead. ''We don't want to lose momentum,'' he said. ''We have a marvelous development team in place and an enthusiastic board, so the decision to keep going was easy. It will only make the museum a more exciting place.'' 
 Neighboring residents, who have been vocal in their dislike of the museum's recent projects, are not likely to be happy about construction noise and cranes in the middle of Fifth Avenue. Last year the Metropolitan Museum Historic District Coalition, a group that represents some residents of 15 buildings mostly along Fifth Avenue, sued the city and the museum to block a plan, since postponed, to add space under the Fifth Avenue fountains and under either side of the Lehman Wing for storage, offices and the Costume Institute.
 The group charged that the museum failed to formally assess the environmental and land-use codes. The suit also claimed that the museum was violating a 1971 agreement with the city that restricted its ability to expand. ''A decision on the status of the suit is expected soon,'' said Mr. Holzer, the vice president for communications. 
 Pat Nicholson, who founded the coalition and who has lived across the street from the museum since 1988, said of the new plans: ''One more time the museum is doing what the museum wants to do. It is doing it without any environmental review. It is time for the city agency to start doing their duty.'' 
 Mr. Holzer said that ''the museum has consistently sought and received government approvals.'' And, Mr. de Montebello stressed, ''We are building only from within.'' He added, ''nothing is higher than the current roofline.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Cutouts take the place of actual artwork as renovations begin on a new gallery for Roman and Hellenistic art. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 Philippe de Montebello, director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and a model of the new Roman Court. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. A1)Chart/Diagram: ''Renovating the South Wing''The Metropolitan Museum of Art is planning a $155 million renovation that will transform the former restaurant area into a Roman court and gallery, and expand the Islamic galleries and Uris education center.Diagram highlights the following:(Main areas under renovation) and (Area of detail)OfficesLeon Levy and Shelby White Roman CourtIslamic Galleries, existing but upgradedIslamic GalleriesRuth and Harold D. Uris Center for EducationSouth Italy, Hellenistic and Treasury roomsRoman GalleryEtruscan GalleryFormer restaurant(Source by Metropolitan Museum of Art [including images])(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (73%); RELIGION (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); WORLD WAR I (50%) Art; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Museums; Company and Organization Profiles; Art

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (94%) Metropolitan Museum of Art (NYC)

PERSON: Philippe De Montebello; Carol Vogel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; Central Park (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



565 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Interest Rate Worries Push Shares Down for a Fourth Day

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday for the fourth consecutive session, with the Nasdaq composite index hitting its lowest level this year at one point as investors sold technology shares, including Intel, fearing they may be overpriced after an 11-month run-up in the sector. 
 The technology-dominated Nasdaq is down 7 percent from two-and-a-half-year highs set in late January after ending its fifth consecutive week of losses on Friday. It dipped below the 2,000 mark late in the session yesterday for the first time since Jan. 2.
 The Nasdaq has staged a steady rally from the middle of last March, gaining 50 percent over all of 2003, but many investors are now fearful that such high share prices cannot be justified at a time when the Federal Reserve is preparing to raise interest rates, a move that would be likely to reduce corporate profits. 
 ''People have been rotating out of technology stocks into safer names like banks, drugs and retailers,'' said Keith Keenan, vice president of institutional trading at brokerage Wall Street Access.
 The Nasdaq composite index closed down 30.41 points, or 1.49 percent, at 2,007.52. The Dow Jones industrial average finished down 9.41 points, or 0.09 percent, at 10,609.62. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 3.12 points, or 0.27 percent, to 1,140.99.
 Trading was about average, with 1.41 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, just below the 1.4 billion daily average for last year. About 1.9 billion shares were traded on Nasdaq, just ahead of the 1.8 billion daily average last year. Decliners outnumbered advancers by 7-to-4 on the New York Stock Exchange and by 5-to-2 on the Nasdaq.
 The Intel Corporation, the world's largest microprocessor company, was one of the Dow's biggest losers, falling $1, or 3 percent, to $29. Intel, a Nasdaq heavyweight, said that the Internal Revenue Service was auditing its tax returns for 2001 and 2002, but it thought that the outcome would not have a significant adverse effect on its finances.
 That sparked a wider sell-off in semiconductor shares, dragging the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Semiconductor Index down 2.7 percent. That index is now almost 12 percent lower than 20-month highs that were reached in mid-January.
 The United Technologies Corporation, the aerospace company, slumped $2.82, or 2.9 percent, to $93.80, while the Boeing Company lost 72 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $43.62. Government sources said the Defense Department was canceling the multibillion-dollar RAH-66 Comanche helicopter program being developed by United Technologies and Boeing. The Army confirmed late yesterday that it was canceling the program.
 Citigroup edged up 43 cents, to $49.32, and helped support the Dow. Citigroup, the world's largest financial services group, outbid Standard Chartered to buy KorAm Bank of South Korea and said it expected the deal to add to 2004 earnings.
 Qualcomm Inc., a wireless communications technology provider, emerged as a bright spot in the falling market, jumping $3.03, or 5.1 percent, to $62.43, after it said quarterly earnings would exceed previous estimates on stronger-than-expected shipments of its chip sets for telephones. 
 Treasury prices climbed yesterday as the dollar's retreat heightened the chances of foreign central bank buying at this week's United States debt auction, and as the stock market's decline provided extra support. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 14/32 to 99 22/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dropped to 4.04 percent from 4.09 percent on Friday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.965	99.497	High Rate	0.930	0.995	Investment Rate	0.947	1.017	Low Rate	0.905	0.975	Median Rate	0.920	0.990	Total applied for	$47,391,110	$47,922,365	Accepted	$25,669,390	$23,111,165	Noncompetitive	$1,375,668	1,199,300	

Both issues are dated Feb. 26, 2004. The three-month bills mature on May 27, 2004 and the six-month bills mature on Aug. 26, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Graph tracks 3-Month Treasury Bills, high rate at weekly auction, since November. (Source by The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); MICROPROCESSORS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); RETAILERS (73%); SEMICONDUCTORS (67%); TAX AUTHORITIES (66%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (62%); HELICOPTERS (60%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Finances; Government Bonds; Interest Rates; Credit

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (86%); BOEING CO (81%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (81%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (51%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (86%); BOE (LSE) (81%); BAB (BRU) (81%); BA (NYSE) (81%); UTX (NYSE) (81%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (81%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (51%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



566 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Questions About a Market System for Mercury

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
As the Bush administration presses ahead with a market-based plan to let power companies swap their rights to emit mercury, scientific and economic uncertainties leave an important question unresolved: whether the plan would leave ''hot spots'' with extremely high levels of mercury around the country.
 That question will be among those explored on Wednesday at hearings in Chicago, Philadelphia and Research Triangle Park in North Carolina, as the Environmental Protection Agency moves to draw up mercury regulations for coal-burning power plants by the end of the year. 
 Mercury emissions from coal-burning plants are not regulated under federal law, though the Clinton administration had moved toward strict regulation by classifying mercury as a hazardous pollutant under the Clean Air Act in 2000. Hazardous air pollutants, which include asbestos and lead, are generally subject to strict controls at each source, a requirement intended to bring down the level of pollutants everywhere. 
 The Bush administration wants mercury to fall under a less stringent section of the Clear Air Act that governs pollutants like those that cause smog and acid rain, which are not as toxic to humans.
 Under the current proposal, power plants would buy and sell the rights to emit mercury into the air; the administration says this trading system is intended to cut mercury emissions by 70 percent by 2018. Critics say that developing technology will make it feasible to reduce mercury by 90 percent on a faster timeline.
 Environmental groups argue that mercury, a neurotoxin that can harm fetuses and young children, should be subject to plant-by-plant controls because it is acutely toxic even at low levels and because it tends to concentrate nearer its source than other air pollutants do.
 According to the agency's own models, in-state sources produce more than 50 percent of the mercury pollution in 8 of the 10 states with the highest concentrations of mercury. 
 ''There are criteria for deciding which pollutants should be traded, and should not be traded and mercury fails most of these criteria,'' said Michael Shore, who works with Environmental Defense, a group that has previously backed pollutant trading. 
 Industry groups have sought a trading system, arguing it is more efficient than uniform mandatory controls. Industry and E.P.A. economists estimate that it would cost $40,000 to $70,000 to remove each pound of mercury, with the technology now available. Power plants emit about 48 tons of mercury annually.
 Administration officials say that concerns about hot spots are unfounded. ''Based on the information we now have, we don't think there is a concern on hot spots,'' said Jeffrey Holmstead, the E.P.A. assistant administrator for air.
 He noted that despite similar concerns, problems did not arise after a sulfur dioxide trading program was created by the 1990 Clean Air Act amendments to combat acid rain. In fact, that system is widely considered a success by both industry and environmental advocacy groups, reducing the overall level of emissions ahead of schedule at a fraction of the costs estimated when the proposal was passed. Hot spots did not occur in large part because the dirtiest power plants were the ones that had the greatest incentive to clean up.
 Environmental groups, though, say the most dangerous areas for mercury are not necessarily the ones with the dirtiest power plants since mercury enters the food chain by converting into an organic form, called methylmercury, as it falls into lakes and rivers.
 Power plants produce mercury in two forms: a stable form of elemental mercury that travels long distances and a reactive gaseous form, which falls to earth faster.
 ''Hot spots come from high proportion of reactive gaseous mercury,'' said David Krabbenhoft, a mercury researcher at the United States Geological Survey. ''You wouldn't get hot spots with releases of elemental mercury.''
 Scientists and engineers say the reactive form of mercury is easier to remove from power plants, which may address some local concerns about hot spots. Another safeguard is that states can impose their own controls. 
 ''If states felt like they had vulnerable ecosystems, they could opt out of a national trading program,'' said Robert Stavins, a professor of environmental economics at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government. Indeed, while 43 states have advisories for mercury levels in fish, only 14 of them, concentrated in the Great Lakes region and the Northeast, have advisories covering all state lakes and rivers.
 Some believe the debate should be less on the appropriateness of trading than on the overall limit and timeline. E.P.A. staff and Democrats have endorsed hybrid controls that combine trading with plant-by-plant controls.


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Warnings About Contamination''Environmental agencies in 43 states have issued some type of advisory on eating fish because of possible mercury contamination. The broadest warnings are mostly in the Midwest and Northeast, where mercury pollution from coal-burning power plants is concentrated.Map of the United States color codes each state according to the following criteria: (Advisories in effect for)All lakesAll riversAll lakes and riversCertain bodies of water only(Source by Environmental Defense)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS (90%); AIR POLLUTANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); AIR QUALITY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (83%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); SMOG (76%); ACID RAIN (75%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); CHILDREN (71%); ASBESTOS (70%); CHEMICALS REGULATION & POLICY (70%) Education and Schools; Teachers and School Employees; States (US); Labor; Organized Labor; Law and Legislation; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (59%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%) National Education Assn

PERSON: Robert Pear; Roderick R (Sec) Paige; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (90%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



567 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1922 words

HEADLINE: Forecast of Rising Oil Demand Challenges Tired Saudi Fields

BYLINE: By JEFF GERTH

 BODY:
When visitors tour the headquarters of Saudi Arabia's oil empire -- a sleek glass building rising from the desert in Dhahran near the Persian Gulf -- they are reminded of its mission in a film projected on a giant screen. ''We supply what the world demands every day,'' it declares.
 For decades, that has largely been true. Ever since its rich reserves were discovered more than a half-century ago, Saudi Arabia has pumped the oil needed to keep pace with rising needs, becoming the mainstay of the global energy markets.
 But the country's oil fields now are in decline, prompting industry and government officials to raise serious questions about whether the kingdom will be able to satisfy the world's thirst for oil in coming years. 
 Energy forecasts call for Saudi Arabia to almost double its output in the next decade and after. Oil executives and government officials in the United States and Saudi Arabia, however, say capacity will probably stall near current levels, potentially creating a significant gap in the global energy supply.
 Outsiders have not had access to detailed production data from Saudi Aramco, the state-owned oil company, for more than 20 years. But interviews in recent months with experts on Saudi oil fields provided a rare look inside the business and suggested looming problems.
 An internal Saudi Aramco plan, the experts said, estimates total production capacity in 2011 at 10.15 million barrels a day, about the current capacity. But to meet expected world demand, the United States Department of Energy's research arm says Saudi Arabia will need to produce 13.6 million barrels a day by 2010 and 19.5 million barrels a day by 2020.
 ''In the past, the world has counted on Saudi Arabia,'' one senior Saudi oil executive said. ''Now I don't see how long it can be maintained.''
 Saudi Arabia, the leading exporter for three decades, is not running out of oil. Industry officials are finding, however, that it is becoming more difficult or expensive to extract it. Today, the country produces about eight million barrels a day, roughly one-tenth of the world's needs. It is the top foreign supplier to the United States, the world's leading energy consumer.
 Fears of a future energy gap could, of course, turn out to be unfounded. Predictions of oil market behavior have often proved wrong.
 But if Saudi production falls short, industry experts say the consequences could be significant. Other large producers, like Russia and Iraq, do not have Saudi Aramco's huge reserves or excess oil capacity to export, and promising new fields elsewhere are not expected to deliver enough oil to make up the difference.
 As a result, supplies could tighten and oil prices could increase. The global economy could feel the ripples; previous spikes in oil prices have helped cause recessions, though high oil prices in the last year or so have not slowed strong growth.
 Saudi Aramco says its dominance in world oil markets will grow because, ''if required,'' it can expand its capacity to 12 million barrels a day or more by ''making necessary investments,'' according to written responses to questions submitted by The New York Times.
 But some experts are skeptical. Edward O. Price Jr., a former top Saudi Aramco and Chevron executive and a leading United States government adviser, says he believes that Saudi Arabia can pump up to 12 million barrels a day ''for a few years.'' But ''the world should not expect more from the Saudis,'' he said. He expects global oil markets to be in short supply by 2015. 
 Fatih Birol, the chief economist for the International Energy Agency, said the Saudis would not be able to increase production enough for future needs without large-scale foreign investment.
 The I.E.A., an independent agency founded by energy-consuming nations, and Washington see investment in energy exploration and field maintenance as vital, but such proposals face strong opposition inside Saudi Arabia. Tensions with the West, particularly the United States, make such investment politically difficult for Saudi society. For example, an effort by Crown Prince Abdullah, the kingdom's de facto ruler, to encourage Western companies to invest $25 billion in his country's natural gas industry essentially collapsed last year.
 ''Access to Persian Gulf oil reserves, especially Saudi Arabia's, is the key question for the whole world,'' Dr. Birol said.
 President Bush has said he wants to make the United States less reliant on oil-producing countries that ''don't like America'' by diversifying suppliers and financing research into hydrogen fuel cells, but achieving that remains far off.
 His administration backs foreign investment initiatives in the gulf region, including Saudi Arabia, and his energy policies rely on Energy Department projections showing the world even more dependent on Arabian oil in 20 years. That may be enough time for governments to find alternatives, but oil field development requires years of planning and work.
 Publicly, Saudi oil executives express optimism about the future of their industry. Some economists are equally optimistic that if oil prices rise high enough, advanced recovery techniques will be applied, averting supply problems.
 But privately, some Saudi oil officials are less sanguine.
 ''We don't see us as the ones making sure the oil is there for the rest of the world,'' one senior executive said in an interview. A Saudi Aramco official cautioned that even the attempt to get up to 12 million barrels a day would ''wreak havoc within a decade,'' by causing damage to the oil fields.
 In an unusual public statement, Sadad al-Husseini, Saudi Aramco's second-ranking executive and its leading geologist, warned at an oil conference in Jakarta in 2002 that global ''natural declines in existing capacity are real and must be replaced.'' 
 Dr. al-Husseini, one Western oil expert said, has been ''the brains of Saudi Aramco's exploration and production.'' But he has told associates that he plans to resign soon, and his departure, government oil experts in the United States and Saudi Arabia say, could hinder Saudi efforts to bolster production or entice foreign investment.
 Saudi Arabia's reported proven reserves, more than 250 billion barrels, are one-fourth of the world's total. The most significant is Ghawar. Discovered in 1948, the 300-mile-long sliver near the Persian Gulf is the world's largest oil field and accounts for more than half of the kingdom's production.
 The company told The New York Times that its field production practices, including those at Ghawar, were ''at optimum levels'' and the risk of steep declines was negligible. But Mr. Price, the former vice president for exploration and production at Saudi Aramco, says that North Ghawar, the most valuable section of the field, was pushed too hard in the past.
 ''Instead of spreading the production to other fields or areas,'' Mr. Price said, the Saudis concentrated on North Ghawar. That ''accelerated the depletion rate and the time to uncontrolled decline,'' or the point where the field's production drops dramatically, he said.
 In Saudi Arabia, seawater is injected into the giant fields to help move the oil toward the top of the reservoir. But over time, the volume of water that is lifted along with the oil increases, and the volume of oil declines proportionally. Eventually, it becomes uneconomical to extract the oil. There is also a risk that the field can become unstable and collapse.
 Ghawar is still far too productive to abandon. But because of increasing problems with managing the water, one Saudi oil executive said, ''Ghawar is becoming very costly to maintain.''
 The average decline rate in Saudi Aramco's mature fields -- Ghawar and a few others -- ''is in the range of 8 percent per year,'' without additional remediation, according to the company's statement. This means several hundred thousand barrels of daily oil production would have to be added every year just to make up for the diminished output.
 Every oil field is unique, and experts cannot predict how long each might last. For its part, Saudi Aramco is counting on Ghawar for years to come.
 The company projects that Ghawar will continue to produce more than half its oil. One internal company estimate from 2002 puts Ghawar's production at 5.25 million barrels a day in 2011, more than half the total expected crude oil capacity of 10.15 million, according to United States government officials and oil executives.
 ''The big risk in Saudi Arabia is that Ghawar's rate of decline increases to an alarming point,'' said Ali Morteza Samsam Bakhtiari, a senior official with the National Iranian Oil Company. ''That will set bells ringing all over the oil world because Ghawar underpins Saudi output and Saudi undergirds worldwide production.''
 The I.E.A. warned in November that huge investments would be needed to offset the decline rates in mature Middle Eastern oil fields -- it put the average at 5 percent -- and the increasing costs of oil and gas production. The agency, based in Paris, forecasts that Saudi production will need to reach 20 million barrels a day by 2020. (I.E.A. and other research estimates say that more than 90 percent of that would be crude oil; the rest would be liquid products like natural gas liquids that result from the processing of crude oil.)
 In his speech in Jakarta, Dr. al-Husseini noted the need for exploration, pointing out that colleagues at Exxon Mobil predict that more than 50 percent of oil and gas consumption in 2010 must come from new fields and reservoirs.
 Harry A. Longwell, the executive vice president of Exxon Mobil, says finding new sources of oil is crucial. Mr. Longwell, in an interview, said that increasing demand and declining production were not new problems, but they were ''much larger now because of the world's demand for energy and the magnitude of the numbers now are much larger.''
 To offset its declines, Saudi Aramco is bringing back into production one idle field, Qatif, and is enhancing production at a nearby offshore field, Abu Safah. The company says that with expert management, these fields will produce about 800,000 barrels a day.
 But current and former Saudi Aramco executives question those expectations, contending that the goal of 500,000 barrels a day for Qatif is unrealistic and that development costs are higher than anticipated.
 Qatif poses real difficulties. It is near housing for Saudi Arabia's minority Shiite population and contains high concentrations of hydrogen sulfide, a highly toxic gas. Its development is ''particularly challenging,'' according to a technical paper by Saudi Aramco engineers presented last year in Bahrain, which said that 45 percent of potential drilling sites ''were rejected due to safety concerns.''
 At Abu Safah, Saudi Aramco has experienced increasing water problems as it has turned to submersible pumps to extract oil. Experts, including American and Saudi government officials, say the technique is ill advised. Saudi Aramco, in its written response to questions, defended the use of the pumps at Abu Safah and its ability to manage the water after 37 years of production.
 One United Sates government energy expert noted that ''submersible pumps is what the Soviets went to on an indiscriminate basis in West Siberia and it went south.'' Samotlor, a huge field in Siberia, once produced more than three million barrels a day, but it declined sharply in the 1980's after the Soviets pushed it too hard. Today it produces only a few hundred thousand barrels a day.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Prognosis for Saudi Oil''Saudi Arabia's aging oil fields are in decline, prompting concern that the country will have difficulty meeting the demand for oil in coming years.An uncertain outlook for aging oil fieldsNine-tenths of Saudi Arabia's oil production comes from seven older fields, with over half from the Ghawar field, discovered in 1948. To offset declines, the Saudis are bringing two fields back into production, Qatif and the offshore Abu Safah.A major supplier for the U.S. . . .Since the late 1980's, 15 to 20 percent of crude oil imports to the United States have come from Saudi Arabia, making it the leading supplier in most years.Graph tracks oil imports from Nigeria, Venezuela, Canada, Mexico, Saudi Arabia and All other countries since 1989.. . . and increasingly, the worldThe Energy Department's research arm forecasts that by 2025, 18 percent of world oil production capacity may come from Saudi Arabia.Graph tracks oil production capacity for Non-OPEC, Other, OPEC, Persian Gulf OPEC and Saudi Arabia since 1990.(Sources by Energy Information Administration, Dept. of Energy
Saudi Aramco
 Matthew R. Simmons, chairman, Simmons & Company International)(pg. C2)Map of Saudi Arabia shows the location of major and minor oil fields as well as gas fields. (pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (85%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Industry Profiles; International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (91%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%) Saudi Aramco

PERSON: Jeff Gerth

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (93%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (93%); NIGERIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); IRAQ (79%) Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



568 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Island Chaos Casts a Pall Over Miami's Little Haiti

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 23 

 BODY:
The music flowing from Eddy Michel's record shop in Little Haiti was plaintive on Monday, and Mr. Michel could not imagine playing more buoyant songs for weeks, even months, to come. 
 ''I'm sad, so sad for my family,'' said Mr. Michel, who moved here from Haiti in 1988 and still has relatives there, engulfed in the turmoil that has plagued the island nation for months. ''I try to call; I can't get through. I try to send money last week; it doesn't go through.'' 
 Mr. Michel and many other Haitians living in South Florida -- there are at least 230,000, the largest concentration in the United States -- have been transfixed by the violence and chaos in Haiti in recent weeks, though they are divided on how it should end. Mr. Michel, 47, is among those who believe President Jean-Bertrand Aristide should serve out his term, which ends in 2006, even if his leadership has fallen short.
 ''He don't do a good job, but he was elected,'' Mr. Michel said as he brought lunch back to his shop, Edma Music and Video, in the pastel-hued neighborhood just north of downtown where thousands of Haitian immigrants live and work. ''So he should stay. He has to stay.''
 Down the street, Stacy Apollon, who left Port-au-Prince for Miami five years ago, made the opposite argument. ''He's got to go; too many people are dying,'' Mr. Apollon, 23, said of Mr. Aristide, Haiti's first democratically elected president, who was held up as a populist hero when he won office in 1990 but has lost support for failing to address his nation's rampant poverty. ''He's been in for a while and he isn't doing nothing. Most people I know want him to go, I'd say 95 percent.''
 A telephone poll of 600 Haitian-Americans conducted this month for New California Media, a network of ethnic news outlets based in San Francisco, found that 52 percent believed Mr. Aristide should stay in office, with older respondents and those who did not speak fluent English most likely to support him. Twenty-seven percent thought Mr. Aristide should leave. The poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
 Younger respondents were more likely to say Mr. Aristide, whose government is under attack by rebel forces, should resign. Half of the respondents were in Florida; the rest were in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Massachusetts.
 But most respondents to the poll, conducted by Bendixen and Associates, a Miami firm, also said Haiti was better off politically and economically under the dictators Francois and Jean-Claude Duvalier than under Mr. Aristide.
 Forty-two percent of the respondents said that American immigration policy discriminated against Haitians, crystallizing one of the biggest frustrations of Haitian immigrants here. Under a Bush administration policy adopted in 2001, Haitian refugees who reach the United States are held in indefinite detention until they are deported or, less frequently, granted asylum.
 Critics have called the policy discriminatory because it applies almost exclusively to Haitians. Cuban refugees are allowed to stay without detention during their asylum proceedings because of the possibility of persecution if they are returned. 
 At one South Florida detention center, some Haitian women awaiting asylum hearings are so terrified of being returned to Haiti that they went on a hunger strike this month, said Cheryl Little, executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, a legal aid organization. 
 ''They believe if they are sent back they'll be killed, so they would rather die here,'' said Ms. Little, who sent staff members to interview the women last week. ''We were there late last week trying to convince them to begin eating, because many were getting seriously ill.''
 Many of the detainees, who are being held at the Broward Transitional Center, have lost relatives in the violence that has swept Haiti in recent weeks, Ms. Little said.
 Ms. Little and other immigration advocates are lobbying Washington to ease its policy on Haitian refugees. In the immediate term, they seek temporary protective status for Haitians here who might otherwise be deported. But Representative Kendrick B. Meek, a Miami Democrat who has joined their effort, said there had been no progress. 
 ''It's hard to explain the current policy to the community when you have this kind of televised, documented violence taking place in their homeland right now,'' Mr. Meek said. ''I think this will motivate Haitians to vote against the president.''
 At the Haitian Neighborhood Center, a resource center for Haitian immigrants in Miami, Gepsie Metellus, the executive director, said her clients were obsessively monitoring Haitian television and radio, but regarding the strife more realistically than in the past.
 ''People's hearts are in their throats,'' Ms. Metellus said. ''Everyone is so torn. What's surprising is all the people here who are not necessarily pro-Aristide, but who don't favor his resignation. That shows a lot of maturing politically, because they are not just reacting emotionally.'' 
 At another music store, Patrick Juste, whose family emigrated here in 1966, said he wanted the United States to send peacekeeping troops to Haiti so that Mr. Aristide would have a chance to stay in power. 
 ''Aristide has made a lot of mistakes,'' said Mr. Juste, whose family's music store, Les Cousins, has seen business decline during the unrest in Haiti. ''He has only 4,000 police officers -- what kind of security force is that? But the man is the elected leader of the country.''
 Mr. Juste and others, including Ms. Little, said they expected Haitians to take to the seas in coming months to seek better lives here. When Haiti was under military dictatorship in the early 1990's after a coup temporarily ousted Mr. Aristide, the Coast Guard intercepted thousands of Haitians at sea and sent most home. Many drowned. 
 ''The biggest concern is that we're going to drag our heels until we have an impossible situation and countless lives are lost,'' Ms. Little said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: In Miami's Little Haiti, women met at a local market to pray for an end to turmoil in Haiti. Eddy Michel, right, a shop owner, is worried about his family in Haiti. (Photographs by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); MUSIC STORES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICS (73%); RIOTS (69%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%) Politics and Government; Demonstrations and Riots; Haitian-Americans

PERSON: Abby Goodnough; Jean-Bertrand (Pres) Aristide

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (94%) Haiti; Florida; Miami (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



569 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Expected to Continue to Lag Economy

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
Job growth is likely to remain tepid even as the economy moves ahead, according to a survey of professional forecasters by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. Indeed, the bank said yesterday, the economists' outlook for employment has grown gloomier even as their predictions of economic expansion are becoming more robust. 
 The 32 economists polled by the Philadelphia Fed, drawn from private business and academia, increased their forecast for economic growth this year to 4.6 percent, on average, from a previous projection of 4.3 percent. Yet at the same time, they trimmed their 2004 forecast of job creation to 1.1 million jobs, from 1.25 million. 
 Economists have been puzzled for months by the sluggishness of the employment market. The new forecast suggests that they have come to terms with the pattern established in this recovery: fast economic growth being driven by even faster expansion in productivity, with businesses meeting demand by squeezing more output from their current employees instead of hiring more workers. 
 ''The economy has a greater capacity to grow because of stronger productivity growth,'' said James Glassman, an economist at J.P. Morgan Chase, who participated in the survey. ''So we need stronger growth to get everybody employed.''
 Mr. Glassman estimated that the nation's output needs to grow some 5 percent a year for several years if the economy is to create jobs for the 2.5 million people who have lost employment since the start of 2001 as well as absorb new workers coming into the job market.
 The forecast is at odds with an estimate this month by the White House Council of Economic Advisers, which said that the economy would generate more than 2.5 million jobs this year. The forecast, ridiculed by Democrats as being out of touch with the real world, was swiftly disowned by some administration officials, including Treasury Secretary John W. Snow. 
 The economy has lost some 2.3 million jobs since President Bush took office, with little evidence of job creation despite economic growth. Since July, the economy has added only 42,000 jobs a month, on average, while expanding at an 8.2 percent annual pace in the third quarter of 2003 and a 4 percent pace in the fourth. 
 The new forecast points to similar developments in 2004, with employment growth around 91,000 new jobs a month, substantially less than the 150,000 or so needed to keep up with the growth in the work force. 
 Though a weak job market is a potential problem for the president as he begins the November election campaign, there are not many policy levers left to pull in hopes of encouraging businesses to hire more. ''The federal funds rate is as low as you can get it, and fiscal policy is already extremely accommodative,'' said Joseph T. Abate, an economist at Lehman Brothers, who took part in the Fed survey. ''It's really more of a confidence issue on the part of businesses.''
 Ultimately, economists say, hiring will recover because companies can squeeze only so much productivity from their workers. Productivity growth fell from a 9.5 percent pace in the third quarter to 2.7 percent in the fourth. 
 The economists in the survey forecast that yearly productivity growth over the next decade will average 2.5 percent. Next year, they project, the economy will add 2.25 million jobs -- or 188,000 a month -- even as growth in overall output runs 3.8 percent. 
 But having forecast employment rebounds before, economists seem more uncertain now. ''There is some point where job growth turns around,'' said Ed McKelvey of Goldman, Sachs, who participated in the survey. ''We're just not good at forecasting it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (86%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (79%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%) United States Economy; Labor; Hiring and Promotion

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (92%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



570 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGN BEGINS AS BUSH ATTACKS KERRY IN SPEECH

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 23 

 BODY:
President Bush kicked off his general election campaign on Monday night, shedding his above-the-fray posture to deliver a robust defense of his record and begin an assault on the Democratic front-runner, Senator John Kerry.
 Facing declining poll numbers and concerted Democratic criticism, and urged by many Republicans to accelerate his timetable for partisan engagement, Mr. Bush used a speech here to assert that the election would present a clear choice between his steady leadership and Democrats who could not be relied on to make the tough decisions necessary to deal with the economy and the threat from terrorism.
 ''It's a choice between keeping the tax relief that is moving the economy forward, or putting the burden of higher taxes back on the American people,'' Mr. Bush said. ''It's a choice between an America that leads the world with strength and confidence, or an America that is uncertain in the face of danger.'' 
 Without using Mr. Kerry's name, the president mocked him as a politician whose positions changed with the wind. The Democratic field, Mr. Bush said, is ''for tax cuts and against them. For Nafta and against Nafta. For the Patriot Act and against the Patriot Act. In favor of liberating Iraq and opposed to it. And that's just one senator from Massachusetts.''
 The speech, delivered at a fund-raiser to benefit the Republican Governors Association, was billed by Mr. Bush's campaign as the start of a more aggressive phase of the race after months in which the president, to the growing consternation of some in his party, had remained largely on the sidelines.
 Much of the speech was forward-looking. It sought to position Mr. Bush as optimistic and steady in the face of serious challenges to the country and relentless attacks by Democrats who, he said, have failed to say how they would deal with the challenges the United States faces at home and abroad.
 ''Our opponents have not offered much in the way of strategies to win the war, or policies to expand our economy,'' he said, sounding a theme similar to one his aides tried out when it appeared that Howard Dean would be the Democratic nominee. ''So far, all we hear is a lot of old bitterness and partisan anger. Anger is not an agenda for the future of America.''
 But his message that his party was taking the high road was undercut by a member of his cabinet, Rod Paige, the education secretary. In remarks to the nation's governors at the White House earlier in the day, Mr. Paige called the National Education Association, a longtime ally of the Democrats, a ''terrorist organization'' for resisting provisions of the education bill Mr. Bush signed into law in 2002.
 Mr. Bush, who has told Republican officials in recent weeks that he was eager to begin defending himself, was himself biting at times in his portrayal of his opponents. Alluding to Democrats who have criticized the war but agreed that the world is better of with Saddam Hussein out of power, Mr. Bush said, ''Maybe they were hoping he'd lose the next Iraqi election.''
 In an indirect slap at Mr. Kerry, who in a 1970 interview suggested that the United States military should be deployed only under the auspices of the United Nations, Mr. Bush said he would never ''outsource'' national security to other governments. Mr. Kerry has since said his views have changed.
 Mr. Bush's political advisers said the speech was likely to be as close as the president comes to formally declaring his candidacy. Mr. Bush decided to go ahead with it, they said, after getting bad reviews from even some of his own supporters in two recent high-profile appearances: his one-hour interview this month on the NBC program ''Meet the Press'' and his State of the Union address last month. 
 Even before Mr. Bush delivered his speech, Mr. Kerry tried to pre-empt him. In an appearance in New York, the Massachusetts Democrat said he had Mr. Bush ''on the run'' even before Democrats settled for certain on their nominee. He said the president had failed on the economy, had pursued a ''reckless'' foreign policy and was practicing ''crony capitalism and crony government.''
 In a statement issued after Mr. Bush's speech, Mr. Kerry said: ''George Bush's credibility is running out with the American people. They want change in America and I'm running because I am determined to bring that change and put America back on track.''
 While, Mr. Bush never mentioned Mr. Kerry by name, his campaign openly said it was now focused on him as its probable opponent and spent much of the day trying to exploit his long record of votes in the Senate to paint him as weak on national security.
 In focusing exclusively on Mr. Kerry as an opponent, Mr. Bush's aides risk making a mistake should Mr. Kerry falter and the Democrats nominate Senator John Edwards of North Carolina. 
 In a statement, Mr. Edwards said the election was ''not about John Kerry's past or the president's past.'' He said, ''This election is about the future, and the new ideas we have that will change American so that it works for all of us.''
 Mr. Bush invoked the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks several times in casting the election as a big choice for the American people. He sought to dispel rumors that he might drop Vice President Dick Cheney from the ticket, joking that he had again put Mr. Cheney in charge of his vice-presidential search and that Mr. Cheney had come up with the same recommendation he made in 2000.
 The speech got rousing applause at several points from the audience of Republican donors and governors, including the president's brother, Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, and the newest Republican star, Arnold Schwarzenegger of California.
 Mr. Bush has gradually become more involved in the day-to-day decision making in his campaign. The campaign's advertising team went to the White House two weeks ago to film him for appearances in television commercials. One senior White House official said Mr. Bush had been having a ''rolling conversation'' with his political strategists in recent weeks about how to proceed as Dr. Dean's candidacy collapsed and Mr. Kerry emerged as the front-runner.
 Mr. Bush's media team has moved forward with plans to purchase advertising time, asking stations about rates in 17 swing states, the vast majority of which were decided by five percentage points of the vote or less in 2000. Among them were Florida, New Hampshire and Wisconsin.
 Campaign officials have said that Mr. Bush's first advertisement will focus on his accomplishments, and that it would not attack Mr. Kerry.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush robustly defended his record on Monday at a fund-raiser in Washington to benefit the Republican Governors Association. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PATRIOT ACT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TERRORISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (84%); GOVERNORS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); TAX RELIEF (74%); LEGISLATION (70%); EDUCATION LAW (62%); TEACHER UNIONS (61%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Public Opinion; United States Economy; Terrorism; Education and Schools; Presidential Election of 2004; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US); Labor; Teachers and School Employees; Organized Labor; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (59%) National Education Assn

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Richard W Stevenson; Roderick R (Sec) Paige; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



571 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Says Personal Debt Is Mitigated by Housing Value

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The finances of American households are in generally good shape even though consumers have increased their debt and bankruptcy filings have surged, the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, said yesterday.
 In a speech to the Credit Union National Association in Washington, Mr. 
Greenspan said that an extended period of low interest rates and extra cash from mortgage refinancing had given borrowers flexibility to better manage their debts.
 Consumer spending accounts for roughly two-thirds of economic activity in the United States, and a widespread deterioration in households' balance sheets could significantly cut spending. Consumer debt reached a record $2 trillion in December, according to the most recent figures from the Federal Reserve. That includes credit cards and car loans, but not mortgages.
 More than 1.6 million people filed for bankruptcy protection in the 2003 fiscal year, ended Sept. 30. Continuing the record-setting pace of recent years, personal bankruptcies rose 7.8 percent, according to the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.
 Mr. Greenspan said that while elevated bankruptcy filing rates in the last few years were troubling because they underlined the difficulties that some households experience during economic slowdowns, ''bankruptcy rates are not a reliable measure of the overall health of the household sector because they do not tend to forecast general economic conditions and they can be significantly influenced over time by changes in laws and lender practices.''
 He said that American households own more than $14 trillion in real estate assets and that mortgage refinancing and the rise in home values have helped to bolster consumer spending in economic hard times as well as better periods. 
 ''Over the past two years, '' he said, ''significant increases in the value of real estate assets have, for some households, mitigated stock market losses and supported consumption.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); CREDIT UNIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); HOME PRICES (86%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (76%) United States Economy; Credit; Consumer Credit; Consumer Behavior; Bankruptcies; Housing; Mortgages; Interest Rates

ORGANIZATION: CREDIT UNION NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS (56%) Federal Reserve System; Credit Union National Assn

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



572 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Bank Deal Expands Citigroup's Stake in South Korea

BYLINE: By SAMUEL LEN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Feb. 23 

 BODY:
Citigroup, the world's largest financial services company, which agreed on Monday to buy South Korea's sixth-largest bank for $2.72 billion, will be entering a crucial Asian market that offers reliable growth prospects and few rivals so far, analysts said.
 Citigroup beat Standard Chartered to acquire KorAm Bank, which has about 200 local branches and more than $36 billion in assets. In joining Citigroup's operations in Korea, KorAm would become the country's fifth-largest lender in terms of revenue, the two companies said.
 For Citigroup, which is based in New York, the deal is the latest in an expansion into potentially lucrative consumer-banking markets outside of the United States. South Korea is home to Asia's third-largest consumer-banking market, after Japan and China. Citigroup, which entered South Korea in 1967, was one of the first foreign banks to establish a presence here. 
 ''We can still expect the consumer-banking sector to grow at least as much as the economic growth rate,'' said Jason Yu of Samsung Securities. ''Domestic banks have fewer products to offer consumers and lack the firepower of Citigroup in terms of the ability to develop new products.''
 South Korean banks, burdened by a surge in late credit card payments in recent years, suffered tumbling profits in the final quarter of last year as they set aside huge provisions against bad card loans. Despite the troubles of overextended consumers, the government expects the economy to grow about 6 percent this year, about twice the estimated rate for 2003, as exports remain strong. Frozen consumer spending has shown signs of gradual thawing.
 ''Korea is a strategic priority for Citigroup,'' said Deryck C. Maughan, the chairman of Citigroup International. ''We see this transaction as part of a broader strategy to provide greater access to Citigroup's world-class products and services in attractive and growing markets.''
 Foreigners have been a growing presence in South Korea's banking industry since the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis, with investment funds like Lone Star Funds and Newbridge Capital acquiring controlling stakes in prominent South Korean banks. But until now, the major foreign investors were mainly private equity funds and not global banking brands. Standard Chartered and HSBC, based in London, also operate in South Korea.
 In recent years, South Korean banks, formerly focused on corporate lending, have been rushing to tap wealthy private customers, offering new products and luring clientele with exclusive, marble-floored rooms in branches in affluent neighborhoods.
 ''Citigroup will pursue aggressive sales targeting high-end and middle-market customers,'' said Jun Lee, a banking analyst at Dongwon Securities, citing the bank's strength in private banking. ''Korean banks will emulate this, focusing more on profits, emerging from the past format that focused on size.''
 The Citigroup acquisition was also seen as a precedent that could prod other global banks to look at South Korean consumer banking. Sales of large stakes in Woori Bank, South Korea's No.2 lender, and the fourth-largest player, Hana Bank, are expected this year. In the years ahead, stakes in banks held by Newbridge Capital and Lone Star are expected to go on the block.
 Under the deal, Citigroup would acquire a 36.6 percent stake in KorAm held by a consortium led by the Carlyle Group, an American investment fund. 
 The deal also includes a tender offer for a further 43.4 percent of KorAm shares at 15,500 won ($13.14) each in cash, which would give Citigroup at least 80 percent of KorAm, the banks said. The price per share represents a 6.7 percent premium to the average closing price of KorAm stock over the past month, according to the companies.
 Standard Chartered, which also bid for KorAm, has a 9.8 percent stake, and Citigroup said it was interested in those shares as well. Standard Chartered executives in Seoul were unavailable for comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); RETAIL BANKING (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%); PRIVATE BANKING (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (65%) Banks and Banking; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); LONE STAR FUNDS (63%); KORAM BANK (58%); SAMSUNG SECURITIES CO LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Koram Bank; Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); 016360 (KSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (63%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (63%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: Samuel Len

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (91%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) South Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



573 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Broadway Joins Criticism Of West Side Stadium Plan

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The West Side rail yards, where the city, the state and the Jets want to build a $1.4 billion football stadium with a retractable roof, is at least 13 gritty blocks away from the Broadway theater district around Times Square.
 But theater owners like Gerald Schoenfeld and Rocco Landesman and union workers who make their living in a business that attracts 225,000 patrons a week say that the proposed stadium would cast a dark shadow over one of the city's most important tourist attractions. It would, they say, obstruct traffic and discourage tourists and New Yorkers from visiting the theater district. Further, they say that the stadium, which would double as a central Olympic site if the city wins its bid for the 2012 summer games, would contribute little other than congestion to the city's economy. 
 Mr. Schoenfeld and Mr. Landesman, who together own 22 of the 35 Broadway theaters, and Tom Short, president of the 5,000-member International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, have emerged as outspoken critics of the city's effort to build the stadium, a key element of a comprehensive plan to expand the nearby Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, extend the No. 7 subway line and transform the low-scale far West Side of Manhattan into a high-rise residential and commercial district.
 Generally the city's West Side efforts have enjoyed at least modest public support from the hotel industry, the real estate lobby and the chamber of commerce. But the stadium has become a flashpoint. There have been rumblings among some business and civic leaders. And now the theater industry is adding its voice to a small chorus of opposition that includes community groups, local politicians and even some trade show executives who contend that the stadium could interfere with the expansion of the Javits.
 ''The stakes for the city are enormous,'' said Mr. Schoenfeld, chairman of the Shubert Organization, Broadway's biggest landlord. ''I think the Javits can expand without being tied to an Olympic Stadium. There is no evidence of a stadium having a positive effect on an urban center. This is a valuable piece of real estate; we should not be rushed in deciding its fate.''
 Mr. Schoenfeld and some leading real estate executives favor building the stadium in Queens, where they say it would less disruptive.
 The Jets have been puzzled by the chilly reception for the 75,000-seat stadium, despite its offer to invest $800 million, more than any other professional team has ever put into a sports arena in the United States. Plans call for the city and the state to invest an additional $600 million in constructing a retractable roof and a platform over the rail yards, on which the stadium would be built. That brings the total cost to at least $1.4 billion, or two to three times that of recently built sports structures.
 Economists generally view stadiums as poor public investments that enrich teams and players, but do little to spark new business in the area other than parking lots. 
 But stadium advocates contend that the Jets stadium would provide a broader public benefit because it is designed to provide up to 200,000 square feet of exhibition space for the adjacent Javits Convention Center, which brings in more visitors. Traffic congestion should be less of a problem, the Jets say, because the team plays only 10 home games a year, usually on Sundays.
 Unlike Mr. Short's construction union brethren who have embraced the stadium, Mr. Short himself has denounced it as a problem for the neighborhood.
 ''Many of our members live in that area, and they could be displaced by this, '' said Mr. Short of the stage employees union.
 Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff has put the stadium and the plans for the West Side on a fast track for approval, which has upset those who want a public debate over the use of the city's scarce resources.
 ''A lot of people are shy about articulating their concerns, because they don't want to alienate the mayor,'' said Mr. Landesman, president of Jujamcyn Theaters. 
 After Mr. Doctoroff unveiled a financing plan last week, for one portion of the West Side plan, real estate executives began questioning the estimates. The city plans to create a development corporation that would issue $3.7 billion in bonds and short-term debt for the subway line extension, new streets and a deck over the eastern rail yard. 
 Mr. Doctoroff said the bonds would be paid for by selling development rights and from new taxes generated by office and residential buildings constructed over the next 30 years. The plan envisions selling the development rights for $100 a square foot, while instituting property taxes equivalent to $12 a square foot. With a vast supply of development rights to sell, real estate executives said, it is unlikely that the city will get anything close to $100 a square foot.
 The New York Times Company recently paid about $58 a square foot -- far less than Mr. Doctoroff envisions -- for development rights for a new headquarters to be built at Eighth Avenue and 40th Street, away from the higher prices of Times Square but still considered a far more desirable block than the 11th Avenue sites envisioned by Mr. Doctoroff.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rocco Landesman, theater owner. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); OLYMPICS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LOBBYING (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); POLITICS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TOURISM (71%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); LODGING (70%); TRENDS (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SPORTS (69%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (69%); TRADE SHOWS (66%) Football; Stadiums and Arenas; Area Planning and Renewal; Theater; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (91%) New York Jets

PERSON: Charles V Bagli; Rocco Landesman; Gerald Schoenfeld

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



574 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Wife Reported Dead in Iraq Is Home and Filing for Divorce

BYLINE: By MAREK FUCHS and AVI SALZMAN

 BODY:
Very much alive and well, an Army Reserve sergeant who is back home in Waterbury, Conn., on emergency leave has decided that divorce is the way to put her life back in order after her husband was charged with fabricating a story of her death in combat. 
 A lawyer for the reservist, Sgt. Betsy Valentin, said yesterday that she was flabbergasted and too distraught to talk. ''She's putting her life on the line for her country and her colleagues are dying on a weekly basis, and then this all starts when she gets a call that she's dead,'' said the lawyer, Michael Ferguson. 
 The tall tale came to a head on Feb. 13. The police received a call that a man, Edward Valentin, and his three children were distraught and in need of help because the family's matriarch, a sergeant in the Army Reserve, had been killed in action. 
 The police arrived at the Valentin home, ''and Mr. Valentin appeared to be very upset,'' said Sgt. David Jannetty, who works in the criminal investigation bureau of the Waterbury Police Department. 
 The local news media picked up on the story, and before long, Sergeant Valentin, busy maintaining order in Iraq, was hearing of her own death.
 When informed that Sergeant Valentin was, in fact, anything but dead, the police began to investigate. 
 Mr. Valentin said he had received a phone call informing him of her death, so the police initially figured that the Department of Defense may have made a terrible error. But then they found out that the department informs families of deaths by sending an official and a member of the clergy to the home of the dead service member. 
 Suspicions then led to the theory that someone had played a cruel hoax on Mr. Valentin. 
 It was after police secured a search warrant for Mr. Valentin's cellphone records that the puzzlement began. Though none of the incoming calls were suspicious in nature, there was a batch of calls from Mr. Valentin to a particular woman, a family friend.
 When the police interviewed the woman, whose name they would not release, she told them that Mr. Valentin had been propositioning her, but she had been telling him that she would not have an affair with a married man.
 Mr. Valentin, Sergeant Jannetty said, soon told the woman that the circumstances of his marriage had changed. 
 Sergeant Jannetty recalled: ''She told us he told her: 'my wife died in Iraq, and my children need a woman in their life. What are you going to do?'''
 Mr. Valentin's plan, the authorities said, was to tell the woman that he was a widower in order gain her sympathy before telling her it was all a big mistake.
 But the story of tragedy quickly spread, ''and it snowballed,'' Sergeant Jannetty said. ''He couldn't control it and say it was a mistake. That's when it all came down around him.''
 Mr. Valentin eventually admitted that he was the source of the hoax, the police said, though he claimed purity of purpose: that the public word of his wife's death would bring her home from Iraq.
 Indeed, Sergeant Valentin came home, but it was not with gratitude on her mind. She apparently sided with the authorities in determining that it would take a leap of faith -- if not logic -- to believe that such a tale would be told for a loved one's benefit. 
 Granted a two-week leave to put her affairs in order, Sergeant Valentin arrived home on Friday, and by Monday, she had filed for divorce. 
 At the couple's house on a residential cul-de-sac early Monday afternoon, Diane Valentine, Mr. Valentin's mother, who spells her last name differently, answered the door and said that he was not home. ''He's very sick,'' she said. ''It's his nerves. He's at the doctor's.''
 At 2 p.m., a state marshal, Domenic Jannetty, arrived at the house to deliver the divorce papers. As he was leaving, Mr. Valentin arrived in a car with another man. When he got out, the marshal told him why he was there, and Mr. Valentin answered, ''O.K.,'' before telling a reporter that his lawyer had told him not to comment to the news media.
 Mr. Valentin has been charged with telephone harassment, falsely reporting an incident involving death and making a false statement. False reporting is a felony carrying a sentence of up to five years. 
 Mr. Ferguson, Sergeant Valentin's lawyer, said that Monday brought one more unpleasant surprise for her.
 Though she had been deployed for year and though her paychecks were being deposited into the couple's bank account, Mr. Valentin, who is unemployed, had not been paying the mortgage, Mr. Ferguson said. 
 ''They are $18,000 behind on the house,'' he added, ''and the only reason the bank did not foreclose is that she was on active duty.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); FAMILY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); SEARCH WARRANTS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); RELIGION (50%) Hoaxes; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

PERSON: Marek Fuchs; Avi Salzman; Edward Valentin; Betsy (Sgt) Valentin

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



575 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Small Business; Pg. 1; SIZABLE DECISIONS

LENGTH: 1595 words

HEADLINE: The Big Question: To Grow or Not to Grow?

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
THE hiring spree by Fine Point Technologies in the last six weeks sounds at first like a story from another world, a happy one that existed five years ago. Top executives at the New York City software company recently signed up an outside investor and increased the work force by 25 percent. 
 But the scale of the increase -- from 40 to 50 workers -- and the anxiety that accompanied it make it clear this is no boomtime bubble-chasing.
 The company did not make the hires lightly, said its chief executive, John O'Keefe. After laying people off in 2001, Fine Point waited until it was clear that 2004 would be much busier than previous years, and spent the last six months building a financial cushion. 
 ''We actually have a couple of very large sales taking place,'' Mr. O'Keefe said. The investor, he said, is for additional support if necessary.
 For Fine Point, as for thousands of other small businesses, there may be no trickier question than this: how big should your small business be? And there may be no trickier time to decide than early in an economic recovery whose strength is uncertain.
 Interviews with a sampling of small businesses indicate that the reasons to expand -- or not -- are as varied as the companies themselves. The decision may be driven by anticipated customer demand, fear of the competition or an owner's desire to remain at a manageable size. Some businesses must grow constantly to sustain themselves, while for others -- a tiny graphic design company, for example -- small can be an asset.
 The Small Business Administration classifies as small any company with fewer than 500 workers. Such businesses, roughly 23 million, account for more than 99 percent of all employers, and more than half the people working in the private sector, according to the agency. 
 Size matters, because small businesses can reap different benefits, depending on revenues and the number of employees. In New Jersey, for example, companies employing fewer than 100 people are exempt from some antipollution regulations, according to the National Federation of Independent Business, an advocacy group in Washington. 
 There are more classifications that provide benefits to companies in particular industries, from furniture wholesalers with fewer than 100 employees to state banks with less than $100 million in assets, the federation says.
 Fine Point Technologies has always been on the small end of the spectrum. Even in the late 1990's, it did not follow the traditional, rapid growth model eagerly pursued by numerous dot-com and other technology companies.
 Instead, it grew ''organically,'' Mr. O'Keefe explained. ''Organic means not having venture capital or any type of influx of cash from investment,'' he said. ''You're building your business off your sales.''
 The company started with 10 people working in Mr. O'Keefe's apartment in 1997. They had developed software that Internet service providers (like Verizon) gave consumers so they could access the Internet. The software worked by using dial-up connections. 
 Fine Point grew to about 25 employees in 1999, but was hammered the next year by the dot-com collapse, the meltdown of the telecommunications industry and the new focus on high-speed, broadband Internet access that did not use dial-up connections. Mr. O'Keefe was forced to cut expenses -- to $30,000 from close to $200,000 each month -- and to lay off more than half of the employees. Then came Sept. 11.
 ''We were two blocks away from the World Trade Center,'' Mr. O'Keefe recalled. A period of down time followed, and the company's technicians worked on developing software that performs the same function for broadband connections. Then business began to improve slowly, he said, as cable and telephone companies battled to sign up more broadband customers over the last year and a half.
 Recognizing that an opportunity to ride another wave might be coming, the company decided last July to pursue venture capital financing; over the course of six months Fine Point found a partner, and began hiring. Now about 50 people are working in its new offices in Chinatown, leased from a dot-com company that can no longer fill the space.
 Trying to gauge future demand presents a challenge for companies of all sizes. The differences lie in the consequences of the hiring.
 At Falcon Plastics Inc., a manufacturer of plastic parts in Brookings, S.D., a rise in customer demand of 10 to 20 percent would probably not affect overhead costs, like information technology or human resources staff, the company president, Jay Bender, said.
 Distinguishing overhead costs from production costs is important in his business, Mr. Bender said, because a production staff turns over much more quickly. ''If I hire an extra person or two on each shift in the production area, within six months I may have some person who's leaving,'' he said.
 Other positions are more problematic, for two reasons. First, higher-quality staff do not want to work at a company if they think their jobs are short-term; and second, once in those jobs, people do not want to leave. ''We're not as quick to do that,'' Mr. Bender said. ''We want to see that the need is going to be there for the long-term.''
 Falcon Plastics has around $20 million in annual revenue and about 200 employees -- about half in production and half in maintenance, customer service and sales, accounting, warehousing and other necessary functions. The plan is to double the revenue over the next three to five years, Mr. Bender said, but because of greater automation, probably without doubling the work force.
 When companies invest in new plants, they generally need fewer people to run them. Last August, Pine Hall Brick, an 82-year-old manufacturer based in Winston-Salem, N.C., completed a plant in Georgia that added only 35 employees.
 ''In a new plant you are typically going to invest in state-of-the-art technology right from the start, to go ahead and make that plant as automated as you can,'' the company president, W. Fletcher Steele, said. ''In an existing plant, it's a different investment decision.''
 Mr. Steele outlined a simplified cost-benefit analysis used at his company to determine whether a particular investment in new equipment is worthwhile. He will add up the cost of a job -- wages paid and benefits provided -- over three years. 
 ''We will typically say that we can spend $100,000 to $150,000 on a capital improvement that will reduce the labor by one person,'' Mr. Steele said. The company has grown fairly quickly, he said, with sales rising to around $100 million and 400 employees from $40 million and 275 people 10 years ago.
 One reason for Pine Hall's growth is its goal of maintaining a dominant position in production of brick for pavement, Mr. Steele said, citing a classic reason that companies expand capacity: to deter potential competitors.
 For Gracious Home, a purveyor of upscale household goods in Manhattan, growth is important but for slightly different reasons. The company has more than 400 employees and operates stores on the Upper East Side and the Upper West Side. 
 ''We need to raise the volume because of overhead,'' the company vice president, Nancy Wekselbaum, said. Salaries and rent, for example, are always increasing, she said. In choosing where and when to expand, she continued, the company considers the cost of space, data on population density in different parts of the city, data on income earned by a neighborhood's residents and other factors.
 In some cases, investment decisions reflect the owners' ideas of what the appropriate size of their company should be. Emily Oberman and Bonnie Siegler, the co-founders of Number Seventeen, a graphic design company with eight employees in Manhattan, said they did not want their business any larger.
 ''This way we still get to do some design work every day,'' Ms. Siegler said. If the company were to grow, she continued, the two women would probably have to spend more time on administrative tasks. 
 ''You grow because you're successful doing this one thing,'' she said. ''You get so successful and you don't get to do that one thing anymore.''
 As companies employ more people, they face other hurdles because they become subject to more regulatory requirements. These are important for companies to consider, said Patrick J. Cleary, senior vice president for public and external affairs at the National Association of Manufacturers, a trade group in Washington.
 The Family and Medical Leave Act, for example, kicks in when a company has more than 50 employees. ''Once you cross that 50 threshold, now all 50 employees get 12 weeks of unpaid leave, which is daunting for a small employer,'' Mr. Cleary said. So growing to 51 from 49 becomes significant; a company could choose to hire not just one employee but a few in anticipation that some may take a leave, or not to hire at all to avoid that possibility, he said. 
 Another rule requires companies with more than 15 employees to allow those who lose their jobs to keep their company-provided health insurance for several months, if the employees pay the premium, Mr. O'Keefe of Fine Point said. 
 He said his company had grown and shrunk so many times that it had crossed that 15-employee line more than once. 
 ''There are certain things, as small companies, that you don't have to offer your employees,'' Mr. O'Keefe said. ''Small companies don't think of that. As we've been growing, we've never thought about 401(k)'s. As we're growing, we're realizing how important these benefit packages are to maintaining employee loyalty.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: FILLING UP -- The work force of Fine Point Technologies, a Manhattan software firm. Its chief executive, John O'Keefe, is at the far left. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. G1)
 STAYING AHEAD -- W. Fletcher Steele runs Pine Hall Brick, which needs to grow to keep a dominant position in the production of pavement brick. (Photo by Nell Redmond for The New York Times)(pg. G10)Chart: ''Small Companies: The Big Picture''Businesses with fewer than 20 employees represent the bulk of enterprises, while the largest companies represent less than half of 1 percent. But companies with fewer than 500 workers employ half the work force.The companiesPERCENTAGE OF U.S. FIRMS BY SIZE OF STAFF, IN 2001*Firms with fewer than 20 employees: 89%Firms with 20 to 99 employees: 9%Firms with more than 500 employees: 2%The work forcePERCENTAGE OF U.S. WORKERS BY SIZE OF COMPANY, IN 2001Firms with 100 to 499 employees: 14%Firms with 20 to 99 employees: 16%Firms with fewer than 20 employees: 18%Firms with more than 500 employees: 50%*The last year for which data was available. Percentages have remained almost unchanged in the last 20 years.(Source by U.S. Bureau of the Census)(pg. G10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (69%); WHOLESALERS (67%); FURNITURE & FURNISHINGS WHOLESALERS (50%) Small Business; Labor; Small Business

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF TEN (G10) (93%)

PERSON: Jonathan D Glater

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



576 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; Pg. 5; THE OUTLOOK

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Optimism, and Hiring, Appear to Be on the Rise

BYLINE: By BERNARD STAMLER

 BODY:
IN economic terms, spring may finally be arriving for small business -- a little sooner, it seems, than for corporate America. 
 Because data collection and analysis can take at least a year, there are no hard statistics about the state of small business today, said Chad Moutray, chief economist for the Office of Advocacy of the Small Business Administration.
 And economic observers are wary about predicting growth after a series of false starts followed the 2001 recession.
 Nevertheless, a general sense of optimism seems to prevail among small-business owners, one that is far greater than a year ago, said William C. Dunkelberg, chief economist for the National Federation of Independent Business, a small-business advocacy group in Washington that conducts a monthly survey measuring such things. 
 Moreover, Mr. Dunkelberg said, many small businesses -- defined by the Small Business Administration as those that employ fewer than 500 workers -- also reported plans for increased capital spending and investment in inventories.
 Perhaps even more significant is that job growth among small businesses is ''strong in every industry, including manufacturing,'' Mr. Dunkelberg said, although federal payroll statistics show overall job creation to be anemic at best. But those statistics do not always pick up hiring at small businesses and start-ups at the beginning of business upswings, economists say.
 Others also see the trends in small business, including Mark Zandi, the chief economist of Economy.com, a research company. ''Broadly speaking, small businesses have fared better than large or midsize businesses over the last few years,'' he said, largely because many are service businesses that ''tend to consumers.'' And they remain ''well-positioned to do well this year,'' he added.
 Jeffrey A. Joerres, the chief executive of Manpower, the temporary employment company, agrees. He called 2004 ''a real pivotal year for small businesses,'' and not only in the service sector, predicting steady job growth based on, among other measures, Manpower's own quarterly employment survey.
 In interviews, owners of three very different businesses backed up that perception. Jerry Miller is president and co-owner of Accurate Fabrication of Columbus, Ohio, a maker of kitchen exhaust hoods, computer cabinetry and other products. The company just had its ''strongest January in three years,'' Mr. Miller said.
 Things are also looking up for Greg Labelle. He is the plant manager for Innovative Office Products of Easton, Pa., a maker of mounts and arms for computer monitors and medical equipment, among other things. The company has about 100 employees, an increase of 17 or so from a year ago. ''Our growth has been exploding since November,'' Mr. Labelle said.
 That is also the case for Susan Sano, the co-owner of the Discovery Center, a preschool in Bend, Ore. Ms. Sano said that the opening of a new building had led to a doubling of enrollment this year, and she expected it to increase again next year because of ''a growth trend in our community.'' 
 That certainly was true for Mr. Miller. Last year, he cut the number of employees to 38 from 48 in 2001, when his business was at its height. He now has 43 employees, up from 40 in December.
 BUT not everything is rosy. Sales for many small businesses are still slower than their owners would like. And, despite some cuts, many complain that taxes are still too high.
 There is also the price of health and other insurance, pushed constantly higher by post-Sept. 11 jitters and soaring medical costs. The expense and availability of insurance is the biggest problem cited by small-business owners responding to Mr. Dunkelberg's survey.
 Insurance costs certainly have affected Mr. Miller. He remains cautious about expanding, taking a wait-and-see attitude in large part because of coverage worries.
 ''My general liability insurance went up 30 percent in the last year,'' Mr. Miller said. ''And medical insurance goes up by 16 to 18 percent every year, even though we've increased out-of-pocket expenses for employees.''
 As for Ms. Sano, who does not offer medical insurance to employees, she, too, complained that the rates she must pay for liability coverage, workers' compensation and property insurance are too high.
 ''We are able to absorb it now,'' she said. ''But later on it might be a question of affording insurance or hiring a new teacher.''
 Then there is the issue of foreign competition, which compounds the difficulties caused by insurance woes.
 Take the case of SeamCraft of Chicago, a maker of custom-sewn accessories for the products of other companies. SeamCraft's president, Stephen S. Stack, said that last year he lost several big customers -- some 40 percent of his sales -- largely because they found cheaper labor abroad.
 For example, the cases for lumbar cushions sold at retail by a large manufacturer used to be made by SeamCraft. Now the manufacturer has gone to China, he said. SeamCraft also used to make the bags for jacks and tool sets for Mazda and Ford vehicles, Mr. Stack said; now, that business has also left, in this case to Mexico.
 Why? ''Our labor is 20 to 25 percent more,'' Mr. Stack said. ''Workers' compensation is up, health insurance is up.''
 He is also hurt by the big companies that ship jobs elsewhere, he said: ''The big businesses that used to feed smaller manufacturers like me are all going overseas.''
 Still, even Mr. Stack sees some rays of sunshine. He has found some new customers and his backlog is improving, he said, though it is not as strong as it was.
 And while his company has had to endure some significant layoffs -- it cut back to 32 workers last summer from a high of about 47 employees -- even he is hiring again.
 ''I just brought four people back,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Thinking Positive''The National Federation of Independent Business recently surveyed 1,245 of its members.Graph tracks Optimism Index and Planned Hirings since 1988.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (93%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TRENDS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (71%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (68%) Small Business; Labor; Capital Investment; Public Opinion; Hiring and Promotion

COMPANY: MANPOWERGROUP (66%); CIRCA ENTERPRISES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (83%); NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (83%)

TICKER: MAN (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (66%); NAICS332999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FABRICATED METAL PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (52%)

PERSON: JEFFREY A JOERRES (50%) Bernard Stamler

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); BEND, OR, USA (50%) OHIO, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



577 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; Pg. 9; INSURANCE

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Another Painful Issue: On-the-Job Coverage

BYLINE: By ROBIN STEIN

 BODY:
HEALTH insurance is not the only kind of insurance giving small-business owners fits these days. 
 Over the last three years, workers' compensation premiums have risen by an average of 50 percent nationwide. The increase has been even greater in California, where Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has threatened to use a ballot initiative to push proposed caps on medical costs and benefits if budget-reduction legislation is not passed by March. 
 Small-business lobbyists have aggressively pushed for such changes, arguing that smaller businesses are having a particularly hard time staying competitive while absorbing soaring workers' compensation costs. But advocacy groups have tended to remain quiet about a trend that regulators and experts agree is adding to the problem -- the growing number of small businesses that evade requirements to carry workers' comp insurance.
 In every state except Texas, laws require most employers to carry workers' compensation coverage, which is no-fault insurance that provides injured workers with medical care and lost wages and protects employers from civil suits brought by employees. 
 It is small employers in lower-wage blue-collar industries -- like restaurants, construction and janitorial services -- that are most likely to go without coverage or understate payrolls to secure lower premiums, experts say.
 Robert P. Hartwig, chief economist at the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York, called the practice ''endemic, especially in contractor sectors of the economy.''
 ''It's a multibillion-dollar problem in the aggregate across the country,'' Mr. Hartwig said.
 Workers who are injured while employed by companies with no insurance or insufficient coverage can still file claims -- costs that are usually passed along to companies with insurance, which pay higher premiums as a result.
 For Richard J. Lawson and his brother Frank, whose family formed the Lawson Roofing Company in the wake of San Francisco's 1906 earthquake and fire, that cycle has had two harmful effects. Lawson Roofing, which has 88 employees, has seen its injury rates drop but its workers' compensation premiums increase by 100 percent since 1999, to 92 cents in premiums for each dollar of payroll. At the same time, Richard Lawson said, it has opened a cost gap that has made it harder to win new contracts.
 ''We're being undercut by uninsured competitors,'' he said. ''When we tell someone, 'It will cost $14,000 to replace your roof,' and someone else says, 'I'll do it for $9,000,' you can talk about insurance all you want, but you're going to lose the job.''
 In a recent survey, the Roofing Contractors Association of California found that nearly 70 percent of roofers in the phone book were either underinsured or ''going bare,'' operating with no insurance. And a 2001 study by the California Department of Industrial Relations found that up to 25 percent of employers in the state were uninsured.
 Some states have begun to take a closer look at employers who do not pay their fair share. The New York State Workers' Compensation Board set up an employer fraud task force in 2001 that has filed more than 20,000 liens and collected more than $26 million in fines from uninsured employers. Antifraud units in Florida, Ohio and Texas have also been actively pursuing business owners.
 But John F. Burton Jr., a professor at the School of Management and Labor Relations at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J., said that enforcement was difficult precisely because of the nature of the perpetrators.
 ''By the time you catch up with small employers, if you can catch up with them, you can't get any assets from them,'' Professor Burton said.
 Similarly, California's insurance commissioner, John Garamendi, said in a recent interview that he was ''very, very interested'' in enforcement. But he cautioned that it would take time to redirect resources and train investigators.
 ''These cases are not your usual stick-a-gun-in-their-face-and-steal-their-wallet cases,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKERS COMPENSATION (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); EMPLOYERS EMPLOYEE LIABILITY COVERAGE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); ROOFING CONTRACTORS (89%); LOBBYING (79%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (79%); INSURANCE (78%); FOUNDATION & EXTERIOR CONTRACTORS (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION BENEFITS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (78%); TRENDS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BALLOTS (72%) Workers' Compensation Insurance; Small Business; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Workers' Compensation Insurance

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (54%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%) Robin Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



578 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: Lightning Rod Issue: When Jobs Here Move There

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Discussion of whether outsourcing of jobs offshore will be good or bad for the United States economy (editorial, Feb. 17) has so far ignored a crucial factor: the resource in question, human labor -- whether at the low or high end of the pay scale -- is in vastly greater supply in countries like China and India than here at home.
 When economists project that in years to come the living standards in those countries will rise such that there will be little economic advantage in outsourcing, they are deluding themselves. Their wages will not rise to approximate ours; ours will plummet to try to compete with theirs.
 To that, add projections of three billion more people on the planet by 2050, the overwhelming majority in less developed nations, and the consequences of letting American jobs go overseas are dire indeed. In the face of out-of-control global population growth, our leaders have no choice but to protect our own workers.

MICHAEL JORRIN
Ridgefield, Conn., Feb. 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); POPULATION GROWTH (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%) Labor; Unemployment

PERSON: Michael Jorrin

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



579 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; Pg. 8; OUT OF BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1798 words

HEADLINE: Lessons Learned the Hardest Way, by Going Belly-Up

BYLINE: By LAURA RANDALL

 BODY:
New small businesses start every day, and fail just as frequently. About 34 percent of businesses with 500 or fewer employees close within two years of opening, and 50 percent fold after four years, according to the Small Business Administration. The reasons vary, but the failures often carry valuable lessons for the owners and administrators. LAURA RANDALL

Mark Mitchell
BUSINESS: Mitchell & Company, an advertising agency.
LOCATION: Toledo, Ohio
 Mark Mitchell, 54, started his agency in the mid-1980's. In 2001, a year after losing his biggest client, Owens Corning, Mr. Mitchell closed the company, declared personal bankruptcy and opened a much smaller agency called Interrupt. Last year, he took a job as president of another Toledo advertising agency; he also operates his own company out of that office.
 Owens Corning had been my client since the mid-1970's. I located my office a block from their headquarters in Toledo. About three years before Owens Corning went bankrupt, they signed a contract with me in which they gave me a guaranteed percentage of their business. I had to grow to serve that business. 
 At our peak, we had 42 employees and were doing about $4.5 million in sales annually, and $3 million in gross profit. Every month I would make more than the month before, so I would not see an end in sight. I probably didn't spend the money as wisely as I should have. I would send employees to personal development seminars. We had a kitchen in the office and would look for excuses to have a chef come in and make lunch. We had a person come in once a week and give massages. 
 Then we started to get these rumblings that Owens Corning had asbestos liability problems. You hear these rumors, but you can't really act on those. We kept moving forward and then, boom, we got the message that they'd gone bankrupt. A couple of days later they said you're fired and we're going to consolidate our business with one firm. The first thing that hit me was I could not pay the debts to suppliers and others. The amounts were just too staggering.
 I put my best face on it and thought I could call on Owens Corning's competitors. They gave me work, but not at the volume that was going to enable me to keep the staff and retire $600,000 in debt. 
 I worked at it for a little over a year, then made the choice in 2001 to close Mitchell & Company, and file personal bankruptcy. The bank had the right to all of the assets. I started a new advertising agency called Interrupt, but business wasn't great. I was going to have to let the last couple of people working with me go.
 Then I met Bill Tailford, who has a successful advertising agency in Toledo, and we decided to start working together. I still have my agency, Interrupt, which is just me and a few freelancers, and I'm president of Tailford & Associates. We decided to find a way to date before we get married. If it does work, we'll probably merge things into one.
 When I look back, I think I expanded my company too fast. When times were good, I didn't take money and put it away for when times would be bad. I would like to say that I wouldn't have put all my eggs in one basket with Owens Corning, but I enjoyed working with them so much. I knew they could get along without me, but I probably naively put too much importance on my value.

Magda Halgash
BUSINESS: Angels in the Attic, an antiques and home decor shop.
LOCATION: Leesburg, Va.
 After Magda Halgash, 43, lost her job as a manager at a video company in 2002, she and a friend opened Angels in the Attic in Leesburg, 35 miles from Washington, in April 2002. A year later, Ms. Halgash closed the store after a string of setbacks, including the sniper attacks that paralyzed the Washington area for weeks in late 2002.
 One of my best friends had also lost her job, so we thought, ''Why don't we open our own business?'' We had worked together in the past so we knew each other's work ethic. We found a place to lease in Leesburg, which is a big antiques area. The rent was a bit steep, so we decided to have some other people come in and rent some space to help cover it. My partner was going to run the business since it was 10 minutes from her home, and I would be there two or three days a week. I live in Falling Waters, W.Va., which is an hour's drive from Leesburg. 
 We opened April 1, 2002. We had a good opening weekend. We advertised in local papers and also got a little bit of business from Washington. We were very pleased. People liked the idea that we were giving local women a place to showcase their products. I had a woman who did hand painting on porcelain, and she did beautiful work. Another woman hand-painted furniture, and she sold hand over fist out of the store.
 In May my partner got married, and by November she and her family had moved to North Carolina. I took on a little bit more financial burden than I had anticipated. I paid her a partial lump sum, then I was going to make payments once the business started making money. We thought we should have no problem. 
 By the fall of 2002 I was driving every day to the store. It was a lot of time and gas and wear and tear on my vehicle. Then, in October, we had the sniper shootings; business was terrible. Northern Virginia was just deadlocked. Nobody went out. We had several snowstorms, a lot of school closings, a lot of ice. There were problems with just getting the store open and getting people to come in. 
 We also had expenses that we hadn't anticipated -- a water heater leak, a leak in a toilet that we didn't notice until we got the water bill. We were very cautious about spending, but when you don't have a reserve to fall back on, it makes it very difficult. 
 We tried to establish a line of credit with our bank, but everybody wanted a personal guarantee. We purposely incorporated so that our personal assets wouldn't be involved if anything were to happen. We got to the point where the store was breaking even other than my salary, but I needed an income. After some discussions with my husband and a lot of heartbreak, I decided to close. 
 I had a lot of stuff left over that didn't sell. I ended up taking space at an antique mall in Hagerstown, Md., closer to where I live. I work full time at a bank because I need an income, and I'm keeping my fingers in the antiques because I love it. My goal is to pay off the debt from the store and maybe someday if the economy gets better to open a shop again.

Lucinda Duncalfe Holt
BUSINESS: Destiny Web Solutions, which provided software and services to financial institutions.
LOCATION: Conshohocken, Pa.
 Lucinda Duncalfe Holt is the former chief executive of Destiny Web Solutions. The dot-com implosion, the economic slowdown and changes in the competitive landscape contributed to the company's demise, and it was liquidated near the end of 2002. In January of this year, Ms. Holt started a company that offers antispam technology.
 Destiny Web Solutions was originally called Destiny Software. It was founded in 1994. By the end of 1998, we were decently well-positioned, but in that last quarter the behemoths all entered our market -- Microsoft, I.B.M., BEA Systems. It was unbelievable. We looked down the barrel of all those guns and said, ''O.K., it's time to find something different to do.''
 We decided to switch courses and become a consulting company. The company grew from about 30 employees to over 100 in a six-month period. In the second quarter of 2000, we were showing terrific profitability. We had big customers -- Citigroup, Mellon, Bank of America, Bank of New York. The dot-com bubble burst and we saw no immediate impact, but we weren't getting new clients. We finally saw the downturn in the second quarter of 2001. Current customers started cutting back. Citigroup, which was about 70 percent of our business, outsourced all the stuff we were doing to India. We couldn't get our feet underneath us. I likened it to being on a muddy slope. At the end of 2001, we liquidated the company and returned the capital to our investors. It took a year to complete.
 In the process of looking for new opportunities, I founded a new company with someone I knew before I joined Destiny. It's called TurnTide and it offers an antispam router. We founded the company on Jan. 7, we're up to 12 employees, and it's off to the races again.

Michelle Dow
BUSINESS: Bookpeople, a wholesale bookseller and distributor.
LOCATION: Oakland, Calif.
 Michelle Dow, 58, is chairwoman and publications editor of Bookpeople, an employee-owned company, which filed for bankruptcy in August and is in the process of liquidating its assets.
 Bookpeople was founded in 1971 when employees of a book distribution business pooled their resources and bought out the owner. The interest initially was to support independent publishing and bookstores. The titles that really put us on the map were the ''Whole Earth Catalog'' and ''How to Keep Your Volkswagen Alive.'' We had exclusive distribution and everybody in the world wanted them. By 1974, we had 30 employees, stocked 7,000 titles and grossed $3 million in sales. 
 The company was incorporated under a formula where each employee could purchase equal shares of stock, but had to sell it back at no appreciation in value if they left the company. I think that attracted people who were self-motivated and interested in working in alternative business situations. The work here isn't glamorous. You're taking orders, you're filling orders, but if you love books then you're seeing things all day long that are of interest to you.
 We had ups and downs, certainly, but weathered them all. We always sort of felt that books were recession-proof. This time, it turned out not to be the case. The marketplace changed rapidly. The superstores were moving in and the independents would just disappear. Bookstores went bankrupt on us. 
 We were already struggling, then 9/11 happened and there was a shutdown of consumer participation. The whole next spring people just weren't spending money. 
 I think Bookpeople's unconventional structure may have hurt us. We never had our eyes focused much on the profit motive. We had a more altruistic outlook. Now I realize we should have been plowing every cent back into retained earnings.
 At the end of August 2003, we declared bankruptcy because we had a lot of debt. December came, the high-water mark of the wholesaling year. We did respectably, but we didn't have a great month.
 In January, it became evident that we should close. We were getting some pressure from the creditors committee in our bankruptcy case. We also had to prepay for all our orders and we could only afford to stock what we guessed would sell. That's an untenable way to continue business. What we're trying to accomplish now is a very managed liquidation of the assets.


GRAPHIC: Photos: MICHELLE DOW (Photo by Terry McCarthy for The New York Times)
MAGDA HALGASH (Photo by Marty Katz for The New York Times)
MARK MITCHELL (Photo by J. D. Pooley for The New York Times)
 LUCINDA DUNCALFE HOLT (Photo by Sabina Pierce for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (63%); ASBESTOS (63%) Small Business; Shutdowns (Institutional)

COMPANY: OWENS CORNING (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (58%)

TICKER: OC (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423330 ROOFING, SIDING & INSULATION MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS327993 MINERAL WOOL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS324122 ASPHALT SHINGLE & COATING MATERIALS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3296 MINERAL WOOL (92%)

PERSON: Mark Mitchell; Magda Halgash; Lucinda Duncalfe Holt; Michelle Dow; Laura Randall

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



580 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: More Child Aid In Fiscal Plan For New Jersey

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

DATELINE: TRENTON, Feb. 23 

 BODY:
Gov. James E. McGreevey will introduce a budget on Tuesday that sharply increases aid for child welfare programs and boosts aid to schools while taxing cigarette smokers an additional 45 cents a pack and levying heavier fines for traffic violations. 
 In a briefing for reporters, the state treasurer, John E. McCormac, said on Monday that without a $125 million increase in spending for New Jersey's faltering child welfare agency, the actual state spending for the 2005 budget year beginning on July 1 would be lower than that of the current year.
 As it is, state appropriations would increase by about 7 percent over last year, to $26.26 billion. But Mr. McCormac, with an eye to Republican criticism about budget bloat in a Democratic administration, insisted that since the current budget listed spending that, in fact, was covered by federal aid, actual spending in 2005 will rise by slightly more than 4 percent. 
 The highlights of the budget that Mr. McGreevey is expected to announce in his annual address include a $273.3 million increase in aid to local school districts -- much of it to poor districts -- a $24.2 million increase in aid to municipalities to offset property taxes, and smaller amounts for colleges, universities and arts programs that have suffered under the governor's earlier austerity budgets.
 ''It's a good-news budget,'' said State Senator Wayne R. Bryant, Democrat of Camden, the chairman of the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committee. And after years of cuts and austerity as the state struggled with shortfalls upward of $5 billion a year, this budget enables Mr. McGreevey to deliver some positive news as he goes into his re-election campaign next year. 
 However, Republicans reacted angrily to the cigarette tax increases and to proposed borrowing, particularly Mr. McGreevey's plan to issue $1.5 billion in bonds for next year's operating budget against the $135 million a year the state expects from the increase in cigarette taxes and the $44 million it expects from new surcharges of up to $200 on serious traffic violations.
 The current tax, the nation's highest state cigarette tax, is $2.05 per pack, up from 80 cents when Mr. McGreevey took office in 2002. The price for a pack of cigarettes ranges from about $5.25 to $6.50.
 The $7 billion New Jersey is to receive under the national tobacco litigation settlement has already been pledged to pay off borrowing for earlier budgets, and the tactic of borrowing against future revenues drew scorn from Senator Leonard Lance, the senate minority leader and the state's ranking Republican.
 ''I believe bonding for general operation expenses is spectacularly poor governance,'' Senator Lance, of Flemington, said. ''It violates every principle of fiscal responsibility that I know.''
 Mr. Lance acknowledged that past Republican governors have employed the same borrowing method to fill budget gaps, a point the state's treasurer, Mr. McCormac, made on Monday. The senator said that he had opposed the practice at those times, too.
 Mr. McCormac argued that the governor's proposal differs from past practice because this time the state is providing new revenues -- the cigarette tax and traffic offense surcharges -- to pay for the new debt.
 ''Here we are creating the revenue to pay off the debt, and it's an important distinction over the way it was done in the past, and I think it ought to be a part of the record,'' Mr. McCormac said.
 But Assemblyman Joe Pennacchio of Morris Plains, the ranking Republican on the Assembly Appropriations Committee, called the argument a ''smoke screen.''
 In addition to the borrowing, the governor's spending plan relies on expectations of an improving economy, the treasurer said, reflected in the 40,000 jobs added over the past year, increased revenues from business taxes and a slight growth in income tax withholding.
 In an economic forecast released on Monday, Governor McGreevey predicted that the state economy would grow by 5 percent in 2004 and 2005 and that personal income would increase by nearly as much. 
 ''This is yet another sign of our economic strength, yet more proof that we're making the right investments to help businesses meet their goals and to create jobs for New Jersey,'' the governor said in a statement.
 The new spending plan will cut the budgets of most state departments, with the notable exceptions of Human Services, which will add 1,500 new child welfare case workers, and the New Jersey State Police, which will get 200 additional troopers and an expanded vehicle fleet under the state's homeland security plan. None of the cuts will require layoffs, Mr. McCormac said.
 Among the largest increases in aid under the proposed budget are $190 for general school aid, $40 million for preschool programs for mostly poor urban schools, and $15 million for after-school programs.
 School spending also includes a $138.5 million increase in Social Security contributions and retirement health benefits for teachers, expenses the administration said would free local revenues for classrooms. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); SMOKING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SCHOOL BONDS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (73%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); BONDS (62%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (50%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Education and Schools; Taxation; Smoking and Tobacco; Roads and Traffic; Children and Youth

PERSON: LEONARD LANCE (76%) Iver Peterson; James E (Gov) Mcgreevey; John E (Treasurer) Mccormac

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Jersey; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



581 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 4; Small Business; Pg. 4; ON THE JOB

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Workers Assessing What a New Bill Will Mean

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

 BODY:
JUAN CARLOS TORRES has a hard-to-find skill: he knows how to disassemble, clean, refurbish and test more than 60 models of laser printer cartridges, each with its own arrangement of gears, screws, drums and rollers. Mr. Torres, a 31-year-old Mexican who came to the United States illegally seven years ago, has been a godsend for Frank Garcia, the owner of Millennium Remanufactured Toner, a laser cartridge recycling company in the Bronx with 15 employees.
 Yet when Mr. Torres renews his seasonal work visa this month, it will not be for his adeptness with laser cartridges but with horse manure.
 The first time he applied to Millennium, three years ago, Mr. Garcia turned him away; he had no papers. So Mr. Torres got a job cleaning horse stalls and doing other duties through the New York Thoroughbred Horsemen's Association, an industry group whose members employ more than 1,500 assistant trainers a year through a seasonal work visa program. 
 After Mr. Torres began the legalization process, Mr. Garcia felt able to hire him. During the racing season, Mr. Torres starts his day at 4:30 a.m. at Belmont Park in Elmont on Long Island, just beyond the Queens line, heads to Millennium for a 9-to-5 shift as the company's manager and quality control specialist, then goes home to his wife and two children in Brooklyn.
 It frustrates Mr. Garcia that a big organization like the racing association has the resources to obtain a visa for Mr. Torres, but he does not. So Mr. Garcia, who is also president of the Bronx Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, is hopeful that a temporary worker program like the one President Bush proposed last month could help small businesses like his.
 ''I would benefit from this law right now,'' he said. Indeed, Mr. Garcia plans to hire another 25 workers to handle millions of dollars of new contracts, the result of a full-page display in the 2004 Corporate Express computer and imaging catalog.
 And he would like nothing better than to hire Mr. Torres's former colleagues who worked at another cartridge recycling plant.
 ''That's a constant fight,'' Mr. Garcia said. ''He wants me to hire these immigrants, who know how to recycle toner, who were exploited for years.''
 But Mr. Garcia says he is ''afraid'' to hire them because of the consequences.
 Like many other small-business owners, Mr. Garcia has some doubts about how the president's worker program would play out.
 So far, the plan has not moved beyond a vague outline. President Bush has proposed that employers be able to sponsor immigrants, including those already in the country illegally, for three years or more to fill jobs they say they cannot fill otherwise.
 How the details are filled in will largely determine the response of small businesses, according to immigration experts and small-business owners. 
 Mr. Garcia is worried about the potential for the program to bog down in paperwork. He fears that like the current visa programs that are beyond his resources, the temporary worker program will entail complicated legal or logistical processes. Raymond J. Keating, chief economist of the Small Business Survival Committee, an advocacy and lobbying group in Washington, said that could be true. 
 ''Any mandate like this is going to be more costly for small businesses,'' Mr. Keating said. ''Big businesses have the ability to absorb these costs.''
 The Bush proposal requires that an employer make ''every reasonable effort'' to find an interested American to fill the job. It is not clear what that means, but legislation introduced recently by Senator Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota, and Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, offered some details about what President Bush might have in mind.
 It would require that employers advertise job openings in ethnic and trade publications as well as ''in a publication with the highest circulation in the labor market that is likely to be patronized by a potential worker.'' Major corporations might not blink at buying classifieds in a major metropolitan newspaper, but the owner of a neighborhood grocery store might find the cost prohibitive.
 Then there are the potential legal bills. Mr. Garcia said he would like to see some of the $1,000 fee that the workers would pay under the Bush proposal funneled to the Small Business Administration or local nonprofit groups to assist small businesses through the process.
 Many immigration advocates say the biggest potential problem with the president's proposal is its requirement that workers return home after their temporary status expires; the plan creates no new path toward permanent residence.
 The general manager of a restaurant in Queens, who spoke on condition of anonynimity because most of her 20 workers are illegal, said that although she would want to obey the law, she would not require employees to enter a temporary program that could force them to leave, or remain illegally, a few years later.
 She also said the law could actually have a perverse effect: if current illegal immigrants do not choose to seek legal work under the program, it could attract more immigrants from other countries who end up staying illegally after their time is up.
 Mr. Garcia predicted that some businesses would use their new power to extort money from workers in exchange for their papers. ''There are going to be a lot of people in our community,'' he said, ''that are going to try to take advantage of that, charge them to get their papers.''
 Then there may be others who prefer illegal immigrants because they are easier to control. Juan Carlos Torres said that described his old cartridge recycling company, where he earned $2 to $3 an hour. (He earns $12 at Millennium.) ''It's not in their interest,'' Mr. Torres said, speaking in Spanish, ''because if the law passes they would have to pay the people what they deserve. When someone is undocumented, the first thing they say is, 'We can only pay you this much.' ''
 Another complicating factor is the close relationships that can develop between management and workers, which could shade personnel decisions once employers are given obvious power over immigration status. For example, Mr. Garcia is the godfather of Mr. Torres's year-old son, a relationship difficult to imagine between, say, Wal-Mart's chief executive and a cashier. 
 And if business owners are immigrants themselves, might they clear out jobs to legalize undocumented relatives (and friends) or bring them in from abroad in a sort of immigration nepotism?
 What if Abdul Mannan, a Bangladeshi businessman with a five-employee halal meat shop in a heavily South Asian area of Queens, wants to bring in a cousin from Bangladesh? He could run an ad that says: ''Wanted: Bengali-speaking butcher with at least 10 years experience, 12-hour days, $400/week.''
 How closely would overstretched authorities look into failure to find an American?
 In fact, Mr. Mannan wants nothing of the sort. It turns out he would hesitate before hiring a temporary worker. Not only would he have to constantly train new employees, he would lose people that he had become attached to.
 One worker, Pedro Sanchez, has been there for five years, has become very skilled at cutting up a chicken and has learned enough meat-related Bengali to serve non-English-speaking customers. Replacing Mr. Sanchez would be a ''very big difficulty,'' Mr. Mannan said, but not because of his Spanish-Bengali-butchering skills. Mr. Sanchez, he said, is family: ''If he goes, then I feel maybe one of my two hands is gone.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: CAUTIOUSLY OPTIMISTIC -- Frank Garcia, the owner of Millennium Remanufactured Toner, hopes to hire more workers like Mr. Torres.
 LABOR PAINS -- Juan Carlos Torres at his second job at Millennium Remanufactured Toner in the Bronx. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT VISAS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); CHILDREN (70%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (70%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (69%); REFUGEES (67%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (64%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (63%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Aliens; Foreign Labor; Small Business; Labor; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (85%) George W (Pres) Bush; Seth Kugel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004



582 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1; SAME-SEX MARRIAGE: NEWS ANALYSIS

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Faith With His Base

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24 

 BODY:
It is a cardinal rule of politics, all the more so for a president who saw his father defeated largely because he failed to heed it fully: Pay attention to the party's base.
 In recent weeks, on a variety of fronts, President Bush has done just that, trying to allay the concerns and stoke the spirits of his restive conservative base. His impassioned endorsement on Tuesday of a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage, after weeks of intensive lobbying by social conservatives, was the culmination of this rapprochement.
 But will he pay a price with the centrist voters who so often decide presidential elections, as the Democrats hope? Or is the country at such an ideologically polarized point that the middle simply matters less? 
 Almost no one suggests that Mr. Bush is operating solely on the basis of political calculations. In his remarks on Tuesday, he emphasized that ''an amendment to the Constitution is never to be undertaken lightly,'' and closed his remarks with a plea to ''conduct this difficult debate in a manner worthy of our country, without bitterness or anger.''
 But as David A. Keene, chairman of the American Conservative Union, put it, ''neither is it fair to say that the politics of it aren't important.''
 The administration clearly recognized in recent weeks that it faced political unrest on its right, after what Mr. Keene described as ''a short period of denying the problem existed.'' The soaring deficits, the growth in government, and most particularly the passage of a Medicare bill that amounted to the biggest expansion of that entitlement program in 38 years, all led to growing discontent among economic conservatives. Other conservatives were dismayed by the administration's immigration proposal, granting temporary work permits to illegal immigrants.
 At the same time, in the wake of a Massachusetts court ruling declaring marriage a basic right that could not be denied to gay people, social conservatives were pushing hard for the president to embrace a constitutional amendment limiting marriage to heterosexuals. Still others were frustrated in the face of Senate filibusters of some conservative judicial nominees.
 Mr. Bush began to respond. In a classic exercise of presidential muscle, he bypassed the Senate and installed two conservatives in federal judgeships, positions long denied them by Democrats on Capitol Hill. He issued a veto threat against a $318 billion highway and mass transit bill, cheering economic conservatives who have long demanded a harder line on spending.
 Finally, after a long period of edging up to the amendment with qualifications and reservations, and after days of news dominated by gay couples getting marriage licenses in San Francisco, Mr. Bush made his intentions clear on Tuesday.
 Conservatives hailed all these steps, but social conservatives, who have been alarmed over the events of recent months, were euphoric over the endorsement of the gay marriage amendment. Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, said: ''The risk we were running with this cultural crisis is that fear tends to incapacitate people, they get paralyzed. And there was a danger that this would spill into the election.'' Instead, Mr. Perkins added, ''with the president stepping forward, this will energize people in a very powerful way.''
 In fact, Republican strategists close to Mr. Bush said they had no fear that conservatives would defect from their candidate. Rather, the strategists say, what they worry about is keeping their core voters, particularly evangelicals, energized and eager to vote on Election Day, given the high level of fervor against Mr. Bush among Democrats.
 Mr. Bush can ill afford any problems among his base. His approval ratings in some polls have been sagging in recent weeks and his likely Democratic opponents have been surging forward. His support for a constitutional amendment allows his supporters to heighten the contrast with the Democratic front-runner, Senator John Kerry, who opposes gay marriage but also opposes a constitutional amendment. Republicans have been portraying Mr. Kerry as a man of shifting stands and a classic Massachusetts liberal.
 Democrats say that Mr. Bush's gains among his base will come at a cost. While a majority of Americans may oppose the idea of same-sex marriage, these Democratic strategists say, many are also uneasy with the idea of amending the Constitution, fearful that the country will edge into intolerance and distrustful of the administration's priorities at a time of war abroad and economic distress at home.
 ''This is clearly a step to placate his base,'' said Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic pollster who also polls for the Human Rights Campaign, a gay rights group. ''All the research we've done suggests that voters are extremely cynical about the president's motives for doing this.''
 But Republican strategists say that the same-sex marriage amendment, while essential to conservatives, has much broader appeal. ''This gets you Reagan Democrats, pro-life Democrats, churchgoing Democrats,'' said a House Republican leadership aide. ''This gets you a lot of Democrats who are not happy with Bush on economic policy but not happy with Kerry on being from Massachusetts.''
 Glen Bolger, a Republican pollster whose firm does some work for the Bush campaign, said, ''We've tested this issue six ways to Sunday, and given that the president is seen as compassionate, I don't think there's going to be the kind of backlash as there was with Dan Quayle and Murphy Brown, for instance.''
 In fact, many Democrats harken hopefully back to the 1992 election, when Republicans ran a ''family values'' campaign to help re-elect President George Bush. It was widely believed that the values campaign, which reached its apotheosis at the party's convention in Houston, badly backfired, sending a signal of intolerance rather than shared values.
 It was a painfully difficult time for President George Bush, who had faced a series of humiliating rebellions from conservatives after breaking his pledge not to raise taxes. 
 From the start, President Bush signaled that he would not make the same mistakes, keeping movement conservatives in the loop, heeding their concerns.
 Conservatives are also confident that their current causes are part of a new broadly appealing cultural populism. Unlike previous ''cultural battles,'' said Gary L. Bauer, a longtime conservative strategist, ''this one is not much of a battle.'' He added, ''The public overwhelmingly embraces what would be considered the conservative side.''
 But both parties seem consumed with rousing their core constituents for what is shaping up to be a fiercely polarized election. Just as Mr. Kerry is rousing his party's faithful with a challenge to ''Bring it on,'' so is Mr. Bush taking pains to remind his constituents that while he has pledged to be compassionate, he is very definitely conservative. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (89%); VETO (78%); FILIBUSTER (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (76%); LOBBYING (75%); JUDGES (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); MEDICARE (64%); IMMIGRATION (62%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (62%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (62%) Presidential Election of 2004; Marriages; Homosexuality; Constitutional Amendments; Evangelism; Christians and Christianity ; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CONSERVATIVE UNION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Robin Toner

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004



583 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: Be It Ever So Low, the Basement Is Often Home

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
At least once every day, Pura Fernandez makes her way down the rickety stairs to visit her disabled mother in the windowless world that her family has proudly called home for two decades, a storage basement in a five-story walk-up, not far from Times Square.
 If she turns right at the bottom of the stairs, she heads toward her old bedroom, where she grew up listening to the currents of sewage from the neighbors upstairs, sloshing inside an exposed pipe. If she turns left, she heads toward the boiler room, past the garbage bags and the storage containers, and underneath the pipes that doubled as the asbestos-padded monkey bars of her youth.
 ''It was very makeshift,'' said Ms. Fernandez, 29. ''Before I came here, I had heard from other people that -- ooh, New York City, that's America, and everyone does well, and you live in a high-rise. But of course, I found that not to be the case.'' 
 The vertical nature of New York City has long helped define its image, with families stacked on top of each other and penthouse apartments reaching the clouds. But for generations, tens of thousands of people have made do with another New York reality -- the basement apartment -- and they literally climb out of the ground to enter the city that is always on top of them.
 There are building superintendents who have lived below ground for decades. There are young artists who are crammed into dark, illegal dormitories. There are secretaries and flight attendants, teachers and musicians, all trying to eke out a living, all trying to find the cheapest digs possible.
 For some, the basement represents a stopgap measure, a housing option of last resort. For others, they offer a gamble to live in illegal, unsafe cubicles, sliced up by criminal landlords to maximize tenancy in only hundreds of square feet of space.
 But for still others, the basement apartment has a quirky and quiet charm that can actually grow on a person, month after month, year after year. Either way, the very notion that people are willing to tolerate such subterranean conditions is, in the end, another testament to a New York brand of urban adaptability.
 ''I prefer the basement,'' said Maria Fernandez, Pura's 59-year-old mother, who has rheumatoid arthritis. She is a sentimental pack rat whose apartment is cluttered with rocking chairs, family photographs and homemade clothes. ''It's more comfortable. It's my home.''
 In 2002, about 110,000 people lived in 45,000 basement units in New York City, 60 percent of them in Brooklyn and Queens, according to the city's Housing and Vacancy Survey. But the true numbers are higher, housing groups say, because of the often temporary nature of the apartments.
 In the annals of New York, underground dwellings may be best associated with the kind of squalor documented most notably by the photographer Jacob Riis, and depicted most recently by Martin Scorsese's ''Gangs of New York.'' The most atrocious conditions existed in the 1850's and 1860's, when the city's 20,000 or so cellars, crammed with new immigrants, became a breeding ground for cholera and other diseases, said Steve Long, vice president for collections and education at the Lower East Side Tenement Museum.
 These days, basements are defined as places that are more than 50 percent above ground, and cellars as places that are less than 50 percent above ground. Most cellars are illegal. But many basements can be legally converted for residential use if they meet requirements related to windows, exits and other measures.
 In Queens, most of these units -- walk-downs, if you will -- can be found in single- or two-family houses that have illegally converted the recreation room. With rents that are as little as half of anything above ground, these apartments are especially attractive to poor immigrants with a high threshold for inconvenience, and vital to landlords who say they are pinched by rising taxes, insurance, mortgages and other costs.
 The story of Richard Rye, a 43-year-old musician and aquarium designer in Forest Hills, Queens, is not unusual. He has lived alone for the last 10 years in a $700-a-month basement that has three tiny windows, poor ventilation and a wet bar functioning as a kitchen.
 But when neighbors complained about Mr. Rye's upstairs residents attracting huge crowds on the weekends, inspectors came, and they stumbled upon Mr. Rye's illegal apartment. So now, Mr. Rye is facing eviction in housing court, and is bitter about his twist of fate.
 ''I feel disenfranchised,'' he said.
 In Brooklyn, many former factories in places like Williamsburg and Greenpoint have given birth to basement units that have been popular with artists.
 Jonathan Schipper, a 30-year-old sculptor, grew up in California on a mountaintop with views of the Sierra Nevada. His art school classmate, Aaron McMasters, 34, grew up on Vashon Island, which is in Puget Sound between Seattle and Tacoma, Wash. For the past year, they have been roommates in a former funeral home in Greenpoint, in a basement that used to hold the coffins.
 There are neither windows nor views.
 The $900-a-month space does not lack for heat, thanks to a powerful radiant heater suspended from the 12-foot-high ceiling that the two refer to, jokingly, as ''our sun.'' On the other hand, they have no clue as to what the weather is like unless they actually go outside. But their apartment does afford them the ability to eavesdrop on passers-by on the sidewalks above.
 ''You basically hear all of humanity on the street,'' Mr. McMasters said.
 Not far away, in a former factory near the Williamsburg Bridge, Benjamin Maddox, a 25-year-old artist who makes soap carvings, stuffed animals and customized sneakers, has paid up to $500 a month to live underground with seven other people, split into five rooms.
 His bedroom is on the other side of the boiler room, and he runs several fans at all times to stir the air. He keeps a light on and sets three alarm clocks so he won't oversleep.
 Still, the shared hardships have translated into a gritty texture that is one part ''Real World,'' one part ''Survivor.'' To heighten the intrigue, there is even a resident hermit, nicknamed Mystery Ted, who always wears his headphones, never says a word and has been down there for at least six years.
 ''I don't think we'd be able to survive without a certain sense of camaraderie,'' said Mr. Maddox, who hopes to move soon. ''But I've served my sentence in the dungeon, and it's time to move out.''
 Not every underground apartment is as bleak, of course. Some have a surreal charm all their own.
 Take the underground chamber of Kein Cross, 42, the longtime owner of Kein, on West 19th Street in Manhattan, which sells home furnishings and personal care products. Almost two decades ago, Mr. Cross began cleaning out the basement, which had been a restaurant, and designing a modern and Parisian-flavored 600-square-foot one-bedroom apartment.
 There is a room nicknamed ''The Grotto,'' 60 feet long and 3 feet wide, with chandeliers, palm fronds and shellacked stone walls. There is, too, a climate-control system.
 ''It's like a cocoon,'' said Mr. Cross, who grew up on a dairy farm in Bentonville, Ark. ''There can be a nuclear blast upstairs, and you wouldn't know it.''
 Then again, some people live in the basement because they have little economic choice but to stay. Such is the case with many building superintendents, who typically pay no rent for a basement apartment.
 Angel Ortega, a 37-year-old who lives in Hunts Point, the Bronx, is a second-generation superintendent, basement-born and basement-bred. Mr. Ortega is proud of what he does and has worked hard to decorate his apartment. But he is also loath to let his son, who lives with his mother elsewhere in the Bronx, linger inside for long stretches.
 Pura Fernandez, the Dominican immigrant who played on asbestos-padded pipes, grew up as the child of a superintendent, in a windowless, illegal basement bathed in fluorescent light. Saying that she often felt depressed and was embarrassed to invite friends over, she turned to her schoolwork as an outlet, graduating from Stuyvesant High School and gaining admission to New York University.
 She now lives one flight up, in a small one-bedroom apartment, with her fiance and infant son. Last year, a new management company took over her building and began eviction proceedings against the family, partly because of the basement's illegality. A month later, her father died.
 The case is now in housing court. Still, Ms. Fernandez is not bitter about her underground experience; she even jokingly calls herself an underdog.
 ''Had it been a choice between living in the basement or staying in the Dominican Republic -- not that the Dominican Republic is a bad place -- I would choose the basement,'' she said. ''The fact remains that this is New York City, land of opportunity, so if you have to live in the basement, then you have to do it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jonathan Schipper, 30, grew up with a view of the Sierra Nevada but now shares a windowless basement in Greenpoint with a classmate. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
The basement apartment of Richard Rye, 43, who lives in Forest Hills, Queens, with his dog, China. Inspectors discovered the illegal apartment when they were responding to a complaint about the residents upstairs. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B10)
 Pura Fernandez, with her son, Sean, and her mother, Maria, in the basement apartment where she grew up. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (50%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%); ARTHRITIS (50%) Housing

PERSON: David W Chen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004



584 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Europe May Ask Microsoft For 2 Versions of Windows
European antitrust regulators are considering a requirement that Microsoft sell two versions of Windows in Europe -- one with the music- and video-playing software stripped out -- should they find the company to be an abusive monopoly, people close to the case said.
 The European Commission, which is nearing a ruling in the five-year-old case, may also ask Microsoft to propose ''within a few months of a ruling'' what computer code for Windows it should disclose to make the operating system fully compatible with programs and servers manufactured by rivals. [Page C5.] 

A New Cycle of Merger Mania
With the economy improving and memories fading of the disastrous string of merger deals during the last stock market boom, big-time Wall Street deal making is back. [A1.]

Traders that make their living by betting on mergers, buyouts and hostile bids, known as arbitragers, are dipping a toe in the market but expect to dive in real soon. [C8.]

Hong Kong Rail Lines May Merge
Hong Kong officials called for the mass transit system, the MTR Corporation, to conclude merger talks by the end of August with the Kowloon-Canton Railway Corporation. Currently riders of both lines pay two separate fares. Dr. Sarah Liao, Hong Kong's secretary for the environment, transport and works, said the government did not think it was creating a monopoly that would be harmful to consumers. [World Business, Section W.]

U.S. Parmalat Units File Chapter 11
Parmalat's United States dairy subsidiaries filed for bankruptcy protection, saying they are trying to protect their assets and are readying for a possible sale that could help settle the parent company's debts. [C4.]

Buzz About Disney Continues
Questions about who knew what, and when, continue to dog Walt Disney, which disclosed on Monday that its board had been advised of an overture to enter merger talks with Comcast ahead of a formal bid. [C3.]

S.E.C. Chief Offers a Choice
William H. Donaldson proposed a rule change that could shift trades away from the New York Stock Exchange to its electronic rivals by allowing investors to choose speed over best price. [C4.]

Saudi Oil Production to Stand Pat
Saudi Arabia executives plan to maintain oil production capacity at its current rate of 10 million barrels a day this decade. [C4.]

Renovations Bolster Home Depot
Shares of Home Depot rose 61 cents, to $35.99, after the company reported a 39 percent increase in fourth-quarter profit and a 14 percent rise in sales. Home Depot has been renovating stores into a softer, cleaner look. It reported strong gains in several crucial markets, including Baltimore, Cleveland and Washington. The chief executive, Robert L. Nardelli, also acknowledged that there are more improvements that can be be made. One area is increasing the average amount of money Home Depot takes in on each sales ticket. [C12.]

Court Says Airline Liable for Death
The Supreme Court ruled that Olympic Airways was liable for the death of a 52-year-old passenger who had an asthmatic reaction to cigarette smoke. [A21.]

Stocks Decline for a 5th Day
Stock gauges fell after a report said consumer confidence tumbled. The Dow Jones industrials slipped 43.25 points, to 10,566.37. The S.&P. 500 lost 1.90 points, to 1,139.09, and the Nasdaq composite shed 2.08 points, to 2,005.44. [C8.]

Book Chain Enters Inner Cities
Borders Books and Music is tapping into one of the retail industry's few remaining new frontiers -- underserved inner-city neighborhoods. Commercial Real Estate. [C6.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,566.37 down 43.25Nasdaq composite -- 2,005.44 down 2.0810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.03% down 0.01The euro -- $1.2689 up 0.0161The dollar -- 108.09 yen down 0.60Graph tracks share prices of Home Depot for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); HOME CENTERS (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (88%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); NETWORK SERVERS (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); PARMALAT SPA (54%); WALT DISNEY CO (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); PLT (BIT) (54%); DIS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (54%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (54%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (54%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (53%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (53%)

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (70%) MARYLAND, USA (70%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004



585 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Cambodia Is Working to Escape Its Past

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: PHNOM PENH 

 BODY:
Tourists who take a wrong turn while driving out to the Khmer Rouge ''killing fields'' could be in for a shock. The highway passes a new water park, a new factory district, a new international school and a new golf course. Eventually, the newly repaved road ends at the beaches of Sihanoukville, where an 800-room hotel opens in June.
 ''We want to flip the killing fields page to one of a normal country,'' a trade ministry official, Siphana Sok, said. Speaking fluent English, which he learned growing up in Washington, after escaping the Khmer Rouge as a child, he added, ''We want to move on.'' 
 A quarter-century after the Khmer Rouge communists were driven from Phnom Penh, streets here throb with market capitalism.
 ''Do you want to buy 'Last Samurai'? 'Lord of the Rings?''' a vendor in a brown silk shirt appealed to an American visitor to one market, his stall stacked with pirated DVD's, selling for $3 each. Nearby, a multicolor display of raw silk scarves drew more tourists, a vanguard of the estimated one million expected here in 2004.
 With the Khmer Rouge years reduced to sinister displays rusting in museums, Cambodia is solidly on the map of mainstream Asian tourism. With the temple complex of Angkor as the main draw, Cambodia recently won new international airline flights and new international hotels.
 ''Just eight years ago, there were only a few hotels,'' said Thim So Thea, a guide in Siem Reap, gateway city for the Angkor complex. ''Now there are more than 60 hotels and more than 100 guesthouses.'' Passing a man ferrying a pig to market on a motorcycle, he said: ''Look, tourism provides a lot of jobs for the Cambodian people.'' 
 The other pillar of Cambodia's new economy, the garment industry, is cautiously expanding, despite the threat of direct competition with China next year as the United States drops most quotas on imported clothes.
 ''We are looking at $39 million in new investment this year,'' said Ray Chew, secretary general of the Garment Manufacturers' Association in Cambodia. ''For companies who are here, the tendency is expansion.'' His group represents the 196 clothing factories that have opened in the last decade.
 Cambodia's garment industry has received a publicity lift with a campaign led by the actress Minnie Driver and Oxfam, a private charity concerned with fighting poverty. The campaign gives cautious praise to improvements in working conditions here, but urges international buyers, like Gap and Nike, to do more.
 Ly Tin's trade views are shaped by selling shampoo packets and sundries to women working in garment factories across the street from her store. ''The United States,'' she said, ''should continue to provide Cambodia with most-favored-nation status, to help us develop.'' 
 Propelled by these twin forces, tourism and garment manufacturing, economists forecast that Cambodia's economy will grow 5 percent this year, matching last year's level.
 But Cambodia still lags its neighbors, Thailand and Vietnam. Last year, Vietnam's economy grew 7.3 percent, Asia's second-fastest growth rate, after China. Every year, Thailand's more-developed economy draws thousands of illegal migrants from Cambodia, a country where more than a third of the population of 12 million get by on less than $1 a day.
 Ties with Thailand, the largest foreign investor here, are being patched up after anti-Thai riots a year ago caused an estimated $55 million in damage to Thai-owned companies and the Thai Embassy. An 11-foot wall surrounding the rebuilt embassy here speaks of residual wariness about volatile nationalist feelings.
 Five years after the last Khmer Rouge were disarmed, Cambodia is one of Southeast Asia's largest aid recipients, taking in $635 million last year. But Japan, the largest donor, is urging Cambodia to shift from public aid to private investment.
 Shoichi Nakagawa, Japan's trade and industry minister, said on a visit here in early January that Cambodia should cut taxes, reduce corruption and treat foreigners in a consistent and transparent manner to attract investment. To jump-start the process, Tokyo is sending groups of business leaders here on investment promotion trips this spring.
 A big stumbling block to foreign investors has been Cambodia's political paralysis. More than six months after Cambodia's parliamentary elections in July, the prime minister, Hun Sen has been unable to form a new government. His Cambodian People's Party did not win enough seats to form a government alone, and opposition parties have refused to join him.
 Because of the deadlock, Cambodia has won an extension, until September, from the World Trade Organization to pass legislation to put Cambodia's membership into effect. Last September, in a step toward joining the global economy, Cambodia was admitted to the group.
 The political uncertainty is delaying many public and private investments. A visiting Cambodian-American engineer from a Massachusetts technology company said he would shy away from investing in Cambodia until the political outlook clears. 
 At an adventure travel agency facing the chocolate waters of the Mekong River, Andre Ruys, the Dutch owner, studied a map of Cambodia and lamented that many road-paving projects were stalled, losing the dry season, largely because donors are unsure of the composition of the new government.
 ''The Thai military have machines ready to build bridges and pave here,'' he said, tracing a road running east from the Thai border, parallel to the Gulf of Siam. Turning to other road rehabilitation projects, west from Vietnam and south from Laos, he added: ''The Vietnamese are ready to build from their border. The Chinese are ready to come down here. Everybody is ready. Only the government is not ready.''
 Mr. Chew of the garment makers' group -- a Malaysian who moved here in 1992 -- said Cambodia's circumstances should be kept in perspective, adding: ''Vietnam has had peace since 1975. Here, they have no war only five years.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A golf course near Phnom Penh. More than one million tourists are expected to visit Cambodia this year. (Photo by Andy Eames for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER PARKS (90%); APPAREL MFG (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (79%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (79%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); BEACHES (74%); GOLF (72%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (70%); AIRLINES (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); CHARITIES (66%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Travel and Vacations; Politics and Government; Hotels and Motels; Airlines and Airplanes

ORGANIZATION: Khmer Rouge (Cambodia)

PERSON: James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (93%) CAMBODIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%) Cambodia

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004



586 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: The Triumph of Hope Over Science

BYLINE: By Mark Derr. 
Mark Derr is author of the forthcoming ''A Dog's History of America.''

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH 

 BODY:
After I was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease two years ago, at the relatively young age of 52, I read everything I could about the condition's usual ''progression'' -- an odd word for degeneration. The worst-case prognosis is grim: a long slide into physical and mental incapacity.
 That is not going to happen to me, I said, as I began measuring my physical decline. I am young enough that I may be able to benefit from advances in medicine, especially in brain research. Maybe with new medications I would be able to put off taking L-dopa, the best drug for Parkinson's but one that loses its effectiveness over time. Surely better treatments will become available, I told myself. 
 So why didn't I welcome the news that researchers in South Korea were able to clone a human embryo and extract viable stem cells from it? After all, one of the researchers said their goal was ''not to clone humans, but to understand the causes of diseases'' -- and one of the diseases named most often was Parkinson's. Scientists say they may one day find a way to develop stem cells into brain cells to replace the ones that are killed or disabled by Parkinson's.
 Part of my reaction, I know, is simply personal; I don't think cloning offers much hope for a cure for Parkinson's any time soon. But my objections are also moral, ethical, economic and scientific.
 I feel this way not because I oppose human cloning, although I do. What bothers me is that scientists are putting forth an overly optimistic list of potential benefits of their research. The potential benefits of human cloning, we are told, include growing replacement kidneys and other organs, nerve cells to patch damaged spinal cords, and neurons to help cure neurodegenerative diseases like Parkinson's.
 Such predictions engender genuine, if speculative, hope. I suspect it is human nature to want to believe in a cure, whether derived through magic or science. But ethical uneasiness clouds this promise when the issue is human cloning.
 If the researchers crossed an heretofore unbreachable line by cloning a human embryo, the argument goes, they did so for a noble cause. Neither they nor any other respectable scientist would engage in reproductive cloning to create a human baby. By implication, if I object to therapeutic human cloning I am condemning myself -- and everyone else with an incurable disease -- to a life of suffering. I am also opposing scientific progress.
 But the invocation of human suffering to justify cloning and other controversial procedures is disingenuous and unfair. Saying that their goal is therapeutic does not alter the fact that researchers in South Korea have cloned an embryo that could become a human being. Holding out the possibility of some future health benefit simply obscures more fundamental issues.
 And the possibility of a health benefit seems remote. Even if researchers could use embryonic cloning to create neurons from my cells, who is to say that the new neurons won't die again after being injected into my brain? In trials so far, the injection of neurons from other sources into the brains of Parkinson's patients has largely failed to have an effect, perhaps because no one yet fully understands how the brain malfunctions in people with Parkinson's disease.
 Even if cloning and implanting neurons worked, it would be expensive, with little guarantee that insurance companies would pay for it. Would the medical benefits of cloning be available only to those who could afford to pay for them? Someone like me might have to serve as a scientific guinea pig, a role I would prefer not to play.
 Granted, stem cells from cloned embryos might provide scientists with some basic insights into the development of organs and cells, and might ultimately present the opportunity for testing treatments. But in its current state embryonic cloning means less to me, as a Parkinson's patient, than other new research, some of which involves adult stem cells. In a recent issue of the journal Nature, for example, researchers discussed the need to better understand the purpose and potential of neural stem cells that are found in all adult human brains.
 For me, the tradeoff is personal. I would rather give up any possible benefit of human cloning research than rush into a practice with such profound repercussions for society. So why not declare a worldwide moratorium at least on human cloning? Scientists could study the cloned animals and embryos that now exist to determine their properties and potential. And the rest of us could join in the necessary debate about what it means to be human.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKINSONS DISEASE (94%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (92%); CLONING (91%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ETHICS (89%); BIOETHICS (89%); BRAIN (89%); HUMAN CLONING (89%); DOPAMINE AGENTS (78%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (74%); SPINAL CORD INJURIES (69%) Medicine and Health; Reproduction (Biological); Cloning ; Stem Cells; Parkinson's Disease; Ethics; Research; Medicine and Health

PERSON: Mark Derr

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (59%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004



587 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: Job Worries Dim Outlook Of Consumers

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Consumer confidence tumbled in February as persistent worries about jobs tarnished Americans' optimism, an industry group reported yesterday.
 The Conference Board said its consumer confidence index dropped more than 9 points, to 87.3, after a rise in January to a revised reading of 96.4. 
That reading was the index's highest since mid-2002. Analysts expected a decline, but the index came in significantly below their consensus forecast of 92.3.
 ''Consumers began the year on a high note, but their optimism has quickly given way to caution,'' said Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board's Consumer Research Center. ''Consumers remain disheartened with current economic conditions, and at the core of their disenchantment is the labor market.''
 The confidence reading is watched closely because consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of the economy. The decline in confidence is a sign that consumers are disturbed by changes in the job market, which have quickly become a crucial issue in the presidential campaign, economists said.
 ''The labor market is actually improving, not very rapidly, but it's improving,'' said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo & Company in Minneapolis. ''But the perception is otherwise.''
 The decline in confidence reflects consumer uncertainty over both the current business climate and economic conditions in the next six months.
 In February, an index measuring consumers' assessment of current conditions declined to 73.1, from 79.4 in January. Those describing the present climate as good declined to 19.3 percent, from 21.9 percent in January. Those who said conditions were bad increased to 25.1 percent, from 22.9 percent.
 The sentiment on jobs was similarly depressed, with those saying positions are hard to get rising to 32.1 percent, from 31.6 percent, while those saying jobs are plentiful slipped to 11.8 percent, from 12.3 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%) United States Economy; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Labor; Unemployment

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (68%)

ORGANIZATION: Conference Board

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004



588 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1; ARCHITECTURE REVIEW

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Conjuring Histories at a Crucible of the Revolution

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP

 BODY:
Robert A. M. Stern's new design for the National Center for the American Revolution at Valley Forge is a lovely surprise. Imagine Frank Lloyd Wright crossed with Peter Eisenman, and you've clearly got something more than the usual roadside attraction. Critics like myself sometimes belittle Mr. Stern as a theme park designer, and the mind reels trying to figure out what he intends this building's theme to be. Jacques Derrida over Fallingwater, perhaps. Radical forms to commemorate a revolutionary past. 
 As a training ground for insurrectionists, Valley Forge is a confusing place to think about right now. The imperial shoe is on the other foot. The Defense Department was born there, you could say, and the encampment also anticipated suburbia. The privations suffered by the Continental Army in the winter of 1777-78 resulted from the lack of a proper distribution system. The housing was adequate, but not so the roads. Nor were there reliable means for transporting food, clothing and medicine. 
 Mr. Stern's design, unveiled yesterday, invites historical speculation. Considering his previous work, he might have been expected to produce a classical structure, a framework to signify cultural certainty. Instead the project suggests that history is an open question, its function to raise issues rather than to resolve them. Though the design includes a classical procession of outdoor and indoor spaces, these elements are emphatically warped, as if to say that the meaning of history changes with the passing of time.
 A flowing, almost free-form design, the National Center for the American Revolution takes its aesthetic cues from the rolling landscape of Valley Forge National Historic Park, a 3,500-acre preserve 25 miles northwest of Philadelphia. The design is roughly triangular, but the sides are serpentine, as if to recall a river delta. The roof is broken up into four ribbonlike segments of different height and pitch. Three of these are to be planted with year-round vegetation. Walls faced with Pennsylvania bluestone further integrate the building with the land.
 The center owns the nation's largest collection of artifacts from the Revolutionary War. These will be displayed in galleries on the building's three levels, which are reached through a two-story, glass-enclosed Great Hall that serves as the building's entrance. Adjacent to the hall is a 350-seat theater, where mixed-media presentations will introduce visitors to the story of Valley Forge. Circulation is by gently inclined step-ramps. Hardwood floors and ceilings will warm the interior throughout.
 Completion of the 110,000-square-foot building is scheduled for 2006. The landscape architects Andropogon Associates and the exhibition designers Haley Sharpe Design are collaborators on the project.
 Mr. Stern's ''historical'' architecture is usually ahistorical. He selects the style of a particular period and inserts it into the present like a token of pastness. The Valley Forge center departs from this anachronistic program. A synthetic design, it seems to liquify succeeding architectural epochs into an unbroken stream of memory.
 Wright is easily recognized in the horizontal thrust of the building, in its organic relationship to the site, the spatial continuity of inside and outside, and the unadorned state of its materials. (Some will also detect the adaption of Wright's forms by park designers in the great public works of the New Deal era.)
 Regionalist painting, too, is hinted at in the design's flowing contours. In the 1930's many Americans believed that cities were responsible for the Depression. Painters like Thomas Hart Benton and Grant Wood appealed to this prejudice by depicting the landscape as a recumbent, maternal figure, a source of sustenance at a time of despair.
 If you're a baby boomer or older, the design will also bring to mind the hospitality ethos of the postwar years, when renewed American prosperity inflated the New Deal concept of service. We thought it would last forever, this notion that graciousness could be expanded to the mass society. Rosie the Riveter returned as Dolley Madison to wild suburban applause, but only briefly. Before long the fantasy was dimmed by shrinking economic expectations and the resentment that they provoked. But in Mr. Stern's design beats the heart of a Howard Johnson's hostess, circa 1956.
 Now here come the naughty bits: Mr. Stern's use of forms derived from contemporary architecture's progressive wing. Those familiar with Mr. Eisenman's work of the last decade will see his influence in the serpentine outline of the roof, its division into distinct ribbons and the sectional organization of the interior. These features were developed in his convention center and Wexner Center for the Arts (both in Columbus, Ohio), and in more recent designs in France and Spain.
 These resemblances may escape the majority of visitors to the Valley Forge center. But they ensure that the design will be discussed in architectural circles for some time to come. A few will be tempted to dismiss the design as a prank. If so Mr. Stern is pranking a prankster, given Mr. Eisenman's proclivity for architectural jests.
 It's true that Mr. Stern has perverted Mr. Eisenman's philosophical intentions. When Mr. Eisenman goes wavy gravy, the forms are meant to signify a rupture with accepted contextual norms. In Mr. Stern's design, similar forms convey continuity. The design treats deconstruction as only the most recent view in an unfolding panorama of architectural history.
 I find Mr. Stern's the more provocative statement, because it is made on behalf of freedom. Some feel that an eclectic, populist architect like Mr. Stern isn't supposed to borrow from a figure like Mr. Eisenman, who has developed a distinctive formal vocabulary and an intellectual aura to go with it. In many cases what these critics are really saying is that they wish bourgeois taste would remain more identifiably bourgeois, so that their own taste for difficulty isn't called into question.
 Time passes, and in the modern marketplace the life cycle of any aesthetic novelty passes quickly. It is the fate of innovation to be absorbed rapidly into the mainstream and to assume forms that innovators are seldom able to foresee. To state that lesson you couldn't pick a better spot than Valley Forge.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The design for the National Center for the American Revolution. (Photo by Thomas Schaller/Robert A. M. Stern Architects)(pg. E1)
 An artist's rendering of the two-story, glass-enclosed entrance hall. (Photo by Thomas Schaller/Robert A. M. Stern Architects)(pg. E4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%) Architecture; Reviews; Revolutionary War, American (1775-83)

ORGANIZATION: National Center For the American Revolution (Valley Forge, Pa)

PERSON: Herbert Muschamp; Robert A M Stern

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (68%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Valley Forge (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004



589 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: Book Chain Taps Underserved Neighborhoods

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHAROFF

 BODY:
Borders Books and Music is tapping into one of the retail industry's few remaining new frontiers -- underserved urban neighborhoods -- with stores in Detroit and Chicago.
 In November, the company, a subsidiary of the Borders Group, opened an 8,000-square-foot store in the heart of downtown Detroit at the Compuware Corporation's new world headquarters building, the first new office building to be constructed there since the 1970's. 
 The company is also the main retail anchor for an ambitious new mixed-use retail and residential complex on the North Side of Chicago. 
 ''There's no doubt that there's certain rough spots in these trade areas,'' said Alex Lelli, vice president for development of Borders, which is based in Ann Arbor, Mich. ''But there's a lot of change coming.'' 
 Of the two projects, the Detroit store is probably the bigger gamble, if only because of the general absence of retail activity of any kind in the downtown area. 
 ''Retail is lacking in downtown Detroit,'' said Charles Maday, the chief executive of Exclusive Realty, a Detroit commercial brokerage firm. ''All the retailers left. It's the only major city that doesn't have even a hardware store.''
 A walk around the downtown area confirms that. It is impossible to buy even a T-shirt in downtown Detroit, let alone necessities like groceries or furniture.
 Compuware's new headquarters, a 1.1-million-square-foot office building with about 60,000 square feet of retail space, is the first significant retail development -- aside from restaurants and entertainment spots-- since the construction of the riverfront Renaissance Center in the 1970's. 
 The location, at the corner of Woodward Avenue and Monroe Street, has powerful associations for many older residents. For most of the last century, the area was the city's retail hub, home of the J.L. Hudson Company and other department stores now vanished. Hudson's, which occupied a square block just north of the Compuware Building, closed in the 1980's and its building was demolished in the mid-1990's.
 ''Retail from Day 1 was a component of our strategy,'' said Denise Knobblock, executive vice president for administration at Compuware. ''Hudson's is still sorely missed in the city. We wanted to bring back some of the things it used to provide.''
 Ms. Knobblock said that Compuware pursued Borders ''quite heavily'' by appealing to its civic responsibility as a Michigan-based company and by pointing out that the downtown area, while deserted at night, continues to have a viable population of daytime office workers. In addition to the 4,000 people who work in Compuware's new building, the headquarters for General Motors is several blocks away in the Renaissance Center. 
 ''We feel the population is just unserved,'' Mr. Lelli said. ''They have no alternatives on their lunch hour in terms of retail. Our feeling is that if we're careful about our operational discipline in terms of hours of operation, we will be successful.''
 The store opened in early November and according to Mr. Lelli is performing to expectations. While declining to say what kind of sales he expects the store to generate, he did say that Borders' ''general rule of thumb'' for stores in underserved markets is to ''break even in Year 1 and look forward to Year 2.''
 Three other retail operations -- a Hard Rock Cafe, a coffee shop and a credit union office -- have opened in the building, and leases have been signed for six others, including a Kinko's, two restaurants and a clothing store.
 The Chicago project, called Uptown Square, is also an attempt to bring retail life to a blighted commercial district. Situated in Uptown, a North Side neighborhood that has resisted gentrification for many years, it consists of three buildings, two of them existing and one new, totaling about 80,000 square feet at the intersection of Broadway Street and Lawrence Avenue. 
 Both of the older buildings -- one, in neo-Classical style, originally housed a bank; the other is a terra cotta department store -- date from the early decades of the last century. Both have been vacant for many years. 
 The project has about 40,000 square feet of retail space, with Borders taking 25,000 square feet for its store, which will open in April. 
 The project also has 33 condominiums, 8 of them earmarked for residents who earn 60 to 80 percent of the area's median income. 
 The developer of the project is Joseph Freed & Associates of Palatine, Ill., a company that until recently was known mainly for constructing mixed-use downtown revitalization projects in the Chicago suburbs. 
 ''It's an interesting project,'' said Dennis Harder, vice president for development services at Freed. Mr. Harder said the company ''got past the idea that this would be a big risk or gamble'' by studying what he called ''the positives'' associated with the neighborhood. 
 The Uptown neighborhood has traditionally been an entertainment district and is still home to several concert halls and nightclubs. The area also has a considerable amount of new and renovated residential housing and is easily accessible by public transportation. 
 ''We looked at it in terms of its proximity to residential areas and the fact that there isn't any competition in this location,'' Mr. Lelli said. 
 The city also cooperated by awarding the $23.5 million project a $7 million tax break. ''This is a catalyst project that involves retail, market rate and affordable housing, and historic preservation,'' said Alicia Berg, the city's commissioner of planning and development. ''It's a microcosm of how we're trying to create balance in our neighborhood redevelopment efforts.''
 Both projects are part of a larger trend playing out in many urban neighborhoods around the country. According to Mark Blaxill, senior vice president of the Boston Consulting Group, a Boston-based business consulting firm that helped write an influential study on urban retailing in the late 1990's, the core areas of cities represent an $85 billion market. He also said that in some areas unmet demand was as high as 60 percent. 
 ''The popular press often promotes the notion that inner cities are drug-ridden gang-dominated horrible places,'' he said. ''But the vast majority of these neighborhoods are populated by working-class people who have jobs and incomes and some degree of education.''
 Increasingly, retailers are taking notice. ''Virtually all retailers that are seeking expansion today are considering underserved urban markets,'' said Richard Totaro, president of the corporate services division of the real estate brokerage and services company CB Richard Ellis. 
 The reasons, he said, include ''the high densities you find in many inner-city markets and the fact that there's typically an extremely diversified income base in these neighborhoods.''
 There are also numerous competitive advantages for guessing right and being the first retailer to enter a gentrifying neighborhood.
 ''The first guy in gets all the goodies -- the best location, the incomparable economic deal,'' said Bruce Kaplan, president of Northern Realty Group, a Chicago-based real estate services firm. 
 Mr. Kaplan said that bookstores are viewed as especially desirable tenants for neighborhood revitalization projects. ''They have a lot of influence with developers because their drawing power far exceeds the actual size of their space,'' he said. ''They play the same role that diners or gas stations do in small towns -- they are places where people meet their friends, socialize and hang out.''
 Another plus is the general lack of competition in many urban neighborhoods. In both Detroit and Chicago, Borders will be the only large national store for many blocks.
 ''Being the first store into a trade area gives you and your brand the first shot at underserved customers,'' Mr. Lelli, the Borders executive, said. ''Hopefully, that impression is long lasting.''
 The downside, of course, is that a retailer can arrive too early or in a neighborhood that ultimately does not revive as anticipated. 
 Also, building in the city is typically a far more complicated process than suburban development. 
 ''There's a different set of operational challenges,'' said Mr. Blaxill of Boston Consulting. These include, he said, everything from the added time to line up approvals for zoning changes and construction permits to dealing with the competing agendas of various neighborhood groups. 
 The benefits, however, remain compelling. ''Anytime and anywhere you open a store, there's risks associated with it,'' Mr. Lelli said. ''But I think there's sufficient background and support for each of these locations.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 27, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Wednesday about the opening of Borders bookstores in Detroit and Chicago referred incorrectly to development in downtown Detroit. The headquarters building of the Compuware Corporation, the site of a new Borders store, is the third new office building to be built there since the 1970's, not the first. The article also referred incorrectly to the availability of T-shirts for sale in the area. They are indeed available, at stores that sell souvenirs and sundries.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alex Lelli, vice president for development at Borders, in front of the company's new 8,000-square-foot store in downtown Detroit. (Photo by William Zbaren for The New York Times)Chart: ''Data Update''Value of construction contracts for commercial and industrial buildings by region. Seasonally adjusted annual rate through January.Graph tracks contracts (regionally in billions) for the South, West, Midwest, and Northeast from 2000-2004.NATIONAL IN BILLIONSJAN. 2003: $70.7NOV. 2003: 60.3DEC. 2003: 57.0JAN. 2004: 60.4(Source by McGraw-Hill Construction/Dodge) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (91%); BOOKSTORES (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); RETAILERS (89%); MUSIC STORES (79%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); HARDWARE STORES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%) Books and Literature; Book Trade; Books and Literature

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (97%); COMPUWARE CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Borders Group Inc

TICKER: CPWR (NASDAQ) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (97%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (97%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (85%)

PERSON: Robert Sharoff; Alex Lelli

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (95%) Detroit (Mich); Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004



590 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 63 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Canada: Bank's Profit Rises

BYLINE: By Bernard Simon (NYT)

 BODY:
Citing a steep decline in loan loss provisions, the Bank of Montreal said its first-quarter income rose 34 percent and it raised its quarterly dividend to 40 Canadian cents a share from 35. Net income in the latest period was 532 million Canadian dollars ($398 million). The bank attributed the improved loan recoveries partly to the stronger American economy. Bernard Simon (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DIVIDENDS (87%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: BANK OF MONTREAL (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of Montreal

TICKER: BMO (TSX) (93%); BMO (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (93%)

PERSON: Bernard Simon

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004



591 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: S.&P. 500 and Dow Decline a Fifth Consecutive Day

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday, pushing the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrial average down for a fifth straight day, the longest losing streak since January 2003.
 An index of consumer confidence had its biggest monthly drop since the start of the Iraq war, damping optimism that the 11-month rally would continue.
 ''You never like to see those numbers,'' said Sally Anderson, who helps manage $2.5 billion for Kopp Investment Advisors in Edina, Minn. ''Investors are going to have to see if it continues in that direction or if it was a blip.'' 
 Calpine, the power producer, led the retreat after the company canceled sales of $2.3 billion in notes and term loans intended to refinance debt. Shares of Calpine fell 42 cents, to $5.31. Netflix, a mail-order service for digital video discs, and Synopsys, a maker of software for designing computer chips, slumped after the companies said quarterly results would be below forecasts.
 The S. &P. 500 lost 1.90 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,139.09. The Dow fell 43.25 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,566.37. The Nasdaq composite index shed 2.08 points, or 0.1 percent, to 2,005.44, almost erasing its gains for this year. It is down 6.9 percent from the 31-month high it reached in January.
 ''Stocks came off fast at the start of the year, and now we're having to pay the price of that,'' said Brian Pears, the head of trading at Victory Capital Management in Cleveland.
 The same number of stocks rose and fell on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.53 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 7.9 percent more than the three-month daily average.
 Since their 2003 lows in March, the S.&P. 500 and Dow have risen more than 40 percent as investors were buoyed by better-than-expected profit growth. About two-thirds of S.&P. 500 companies that have reported fourth-quarter earnings exceeded analyst expectations, according to Thomson Financial.
 Netflix shed $3.82, to $31.20. It said its first-quarter loss would be wider than expected because of an increase in marketing expenses. 
 Synopsys fell $4.55, to $29.88. It said that its second-quarter sales and profit would be below the expectations of analysts.
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the biggest buyers of home mortgages, accounted for 22 percent of the drop in the S.&P. 500 after the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, said the companies might pose a risk to the United States financial system because of their rapid growth. Fannie Mae fell $2.65, to $76.25. Freddie Mac lost $1.81, to $62.12.
 Phone stocks had the biggest gain of the S.&P. 500's 10 industry groups, rising 0.9 percent. Verizon Communications led the advance, adding $1.08, to $38.09. Verizon, the biggest local-telephone company, could benefit as two of its rivals, SBC Communications and BellSouth, focus on their acquisition of AT&T Wireless Services, a Morgan Stanley analyst, Simon Flannery, said.
 Health care stocks rose, led by Guidant. The stock gained $4.50, or 7.1 percent, to $67.95, for the biggest jump in the S.&P. 500. The company obtained the right to co-promote Johnson & Johnson's drug-coated stent, a device used to prop open clogged arteries. The agreement grants Guidant immediate entry into a market that may reach more than $3 billion by the end of 2004. Johnson & Johnson rose $1.13, to $54.18.
 Prices of Treasury securities rose, trading near their highest level in almost a week. The drop in consumer confidence, reported yesterday by the Conference Board, bolstered forecasts that the Federal Reserve would hold its target interest rate at 1 percent until late this year. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 4/32 to 99 26/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dropped to 4.03 percent, from 4.04 percent on Monday.
 Here is the result of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.927
High Rate: 0.935
Coupon Yield: 0.955
Low Rate: 0.920
Median Rate: 0.930
Total applied for: $49,855,650
Accepted: $21,390,143
Noncompetitive: $37,273

The four-week bills mature March 25, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph tracks 3-6 month and 2 through 30 year maturity securities from yesterday and one month ago.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (63%); INTEREST RATES (60%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (63%); KOPP INVESTMENT ADVISORS INC (57%); NETFLIX INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); VICTORY CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (53%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (56%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (56%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC6091 NONDEPOSIT TRUST FACILITIES (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (77%) IRAQ (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004



592 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Haitian Rebels Reject U.S. Power-Sharing Plan
Haitian opposition leaders rejected an American-drafted proposal for a power-sharing arrangement with President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, increasing pressure on the Bush administration to send in security forces. The action surprised Bush administration officials, who had seemed confident of their ability to deliver opposition support. A1

President Jean-Bertrand Aristide urged other countries to hasten plans to intervene in the deepening crisis. He warned of a bloodbath in the capital and a wave of refugees fleeing across the Caribbean to Florida if the rebels advancing against him are not stopped. A6

Aid for Nuclear Freeze
North Korea will be offered economic aid in return for a pledge to freeze and eventually dismantle its nuclear arms facilities in talks with the North in Beijing, according to senior Asian and American officials. But they said the offer is expected to be presented by South Korea and not the United States. A11

More Nuclear Evidence in Iran
International Atomic Energy Agency experts in Iran found evidence of the production of bomb-grade fuel suitable for nuclear weapons, saying in an inspection report that equipment manufactured there showed many traces of the fuel, highly enriched uranium. Iran has consistently denied a nuclear program. A11

Earthquake Kills Hundreds
A powerful earthquake killed at least 564 people in the city of Al Hoceima in northern Morocco, toppling mud-brick homes and burying residents in their sleep under tons of rubble. Hundreds of others were reported injured in and around the city. A11

Russian Prime Minister Fired
President Vladimir V. Putin abruptly dismissed Russia's prime minister and his Cabinet, announcing that he would appoint a new government in a surprise shuffling of ministers on the eve of an election Mr. Putin is certain to win. A3

Israel and Jordan Share Project
Israel and Jordan have agreed to build an environmental studies center on their shared desert border, a rare instance of cooperation on a major project between the Middle East neighbors, officials said. A8

More Qaeda Terror Threats
A senior leader of Al Qaeda threatened further attacks against the United States and lambasted France for banning Islamic head scarves, on two audiotapes broadcast by separate Arab satellite channels. Analysts at the Central Intelligence Agency said the recordings appeared to have been made by Dr. Ayman al-Zawahiri, the top lieutenant to Osama bin Laden. A8

New Iraqi Army in Training
The Iraqi Army remains a work in progress. The army is just one piece of a security architecture that is new and increasingly Iraqi. However, debate continues in Washington about how best to deal with Iraq's near-term security threats ahead of the transfer of sovereignty set for July. A12

NATIONAL A14-21

Bush Backs Amendment Banning Gay Marriage
President Bush declared his support for an amendment to the Constitution that would ban gay marriage, saying that the union of a man and a woman is ''the most fundamental institution of civilization'' and that it cannot be separated from its ''cultural, religious and natural roots'' without weakening society. A1

U.S. to Charge Two Detainees
Pentagon officials said that they were bringing charges for the first time against detainees at the Guantanamo Bay naval base, accusing two prisoners of conspiracy to commit war crimes and terrorism. A1

Kerry Wins in Utah and Idaho
Senator John Kerry won the Utah primary with 55 percent of the vote, while Senator John Edwards received 30 percent. Senator Kerry also won the Idaho caucus by a wide margin. A21

Some people in and around Ohio politics say Senator Edwards has a fighting chance in the state's presidential primary next Tuesday. A1

Death Sentence Overturned
The Supreme Court overturned a Texas inmate's death sentence on the ground that the prosecution deliberately withheld evidence that would have made jurors less likely to impose the death penalty. A14

Airline Found Liable for Death
The Supreme Court ruled that an airline was liable for the death of a 52-year-old passenger who had an asthmatic reaction to cigarette smoke, because the flight attendant repeatedly refused to move him farther from the smoking section. A21

Senators Stall Bush Nominee
Two Democratic senators said they would hold up the confirmation of a new Medicare chief until the Bush administration explained why it opposed prescription drug imports. A15

FASHION B12

EDUCATION B9

Racial Incident Denounced
Columbia University's president condemned the publication of a racially offensive cartoon in an alternative student newspaper. B9

NEW YORK/REGION B1-11

More Testimony Is Heard About a Williams Cover-Up
Two men who were at Jayson Williams's country estate on the night a chauffeur was killed there testified that they saw Mr. Williams wiping down a shotgum moments after the fatal blast. A third said Mr. Williams never encouraged any of the nine men in the mansion to lie. B5

3 Infants Found Abandoned
Three newborns were found abandoned on far ends of the city, leading to police investigations. B1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Criticism on Food Safety
A senior scientist at the Department of Agriculture says its scientific experts have been pressured by top officials to approve products before their safety can be confirmed. A19

ARTS E1-8

Christ Movie Disturbs Clergy
An interfaith panel of eight Christian and Jewish clergy members and laypeople who saw a screening of ''The Passion of the Christ'' said the movie deviated in bizarre ways from the Gospel accounts, fell flat emotionally and was numbingly violent. A14

A. O. Scott reviews the film. E1

Protest Over Mix Album
More than 300 Web sites and blogs staged a protest over a record company's efforts to stop them from offering downloadable copies. E3

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-7

DINING OUT F1-10

Food Writer Jolts France
Pascal Remy, 40, a former restaurant inspector for a French food-lover's guide, has sued his former employer and says his forthcoming book will accuse the firm of favoritism, cutting corners and duping readers. F1

Looking for Help in New York
A rush of big-ticket restaurant openings has put pressure on chefs and owners to find staff members. F1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

I.B.M. Overhauls Stock Options
I.B.M. announced that it would change the way it pays senior executives, instituting a system where stock awards become valuable only if the company's shares rise by 10 percent or more. C1

Warning on Mortgage Lenders
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, warned that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the nation's two big government-sponsored mortgage institutions, pose a ''systemic risk'' that could cost taxpayers dearly in the future. C1

Stent Makers Combine Efforts
Johnson & Johnson said it had joined forces with a rival, Guidant, to sell its Cypher stent, bolstering the two companies' market position as Boston Scientific prepares to introduce a competing drug-coated stent. C1

Stewart Will Not Testify
Lawyers for Martha Stewart said they would wrap up their defense this morning, without her testimony. C1

Bankruptcy in U.S. for Parmalat
Subsidiaries in the United States filed for bankruptcy protection. C4

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

OBITUARIES C13

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: Putting bias in the Constitution; the gun lobby's bull's-eye; another mistake by Rod Paige; Gail Collins on the candidate in blue, third from the left.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, William Safire.

Crossword E4
TV Listings E7
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ARMIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); AL-QAEDA (87%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); REFUGEES (76%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (74%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); TERRORISM (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); MARRIAGE LAW (60%); MARRIAGE (50%); RELIGION (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (76%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%) UNITED STATES (98%); HAITI (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); ISRAEL (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); JORDAN (92%); CHINA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MOROCCO (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004



593 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Warns of a Risk to Taxpayers

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, warned on Tuesday that the nation's two big government-sponsored mortgage institutions pose a ''systemic risk'' that could cost taxpayers dearly.
 Mr. Greenspan said that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which buy up and repackage billions of dollars' worth of mortgages every year, have grown so rapidly and accumulated so much debt that they cannot adequately hedge against the risks of financial crises.
 The Fed chairman said both companies, which hold about $2 trillion worth of obligations tied to home mortgages, have grown much faster than their competitors because investors think the federal government will bail them out in a crisis. 
 Mr. Greenspan said this ''implied subsidy'' has been a boon to the companies' shareholders but provided only modest benefits to homebuyers in the form of lower mortgage rates.
 The danger, he said, is that the companies are using this implicit federal backstop to assume more risk and finance their expansion through increased debt.
 ''There is a general belief in the marketplace that these securities are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government,'' Mr. Greenspan testified at a hearing of the Senate Banking Committee. 
 Even though the federal government does not guarantee the securities of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, Mr. Greenspan suggested that their special status as ''government-sponsored enterprises'' and their huge size would make it difficult for Congress to avoid a bailout in the event of a financial calamity. ''It's basically creating an abnormality, which the system cannot close around, and the potential of that is a systemic risk in -- sometime in the future, if they continue to increase at the rate at which they are.''
 Shares of both companies dropped after Mr. Greenspan's testimony. Fannie Mae shares fell $2.65, to $76.25. Freddie Mac slid $1.81, to $62.12.
 Fannie Mae executives quickly lashed back at Mr. Greenspan, complaining that many of his criticisms were based on a Fed study that it called seriously flawed.
 ''We, of course, disagree with most of his conclusions,'' said Jayne Shontell, Fannie Mae's senior vice president for investor relations. ''We believe that the testimony does not appreciate the role of our mortgage portfolio and the impact of his proposal.''
 Mr. Greenspan's lengthy and blunt criticisms are likely to provide new impetus for legislative proposals aimed at tightening the regulatory control over both companies.
 Though Mr. Greenspan has criticized Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the past, he expressed a greater degree of alarm about the potential risks posed by the companies, and he was insistent that Congress act ''sooner rather than later.''
 Both companies have been under fire for more than a year, in part because both have admitted to a wide variety of questionable accounting practices. 
 Freddie Mac executives admitted in November that the company had understated earnings by $5 billion, a move they hoped would smooth out the company's long-term earnings trend and thus assuage investors. In October, Fannie Mae was forced to correct what it said were $1 billion in errors in its recent financial results.
 Critics have complained for years that the two companies have been far less transparent in their financial reporting than ordinary financial institutions. But the larger concern voiced by Mr. Greenspan is that the companies may represent a huge and hidden financial liability that could at some point lead to a heavy costs for taxpayers.
 The Bush administration has proposed transferring regulatory responsibility for the companies to the Treasury Department, which might then set new restrictions on their ability to issue debt or their requirements to keep larger amounts of capital in reserve.
 Republicans and Democrats on the Senate Banking Committee are trying to draw up a bipartisan plan that would create an independent regulatory group, overseen by top officials at the Treasury, the Fed and the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
 Originally chartered by Congress, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were created to expand the pool of money for home mortgages at a time when few banks or savings institutions operated nationwide. 
 The two companies essentially buy up mortgages from local lenders and bundle the loans into large securities, which they then resell on financial markets. Today, Mr. Greenspan said, the companies stand behind about $4 trillion worth of mortgages -- about three-quarters of all single-family mortgages in the United States. 
 Mr. Greenspan emphasized that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had done a good job of managing their risk thus far. But he said their total volume of outstanding debt could soon exceed the debt of the federal government itself. That would make it hard for the government to avoid a bailout, he said.
 ''The scale itself has reinforced investors' perceptions that in the event of a crisis involving Fannie and Freddie, policy makers would have little alternative than to have taxpayers explicitly stand behind the G.S.E. debt,'' Mr. Greenspan said, referring to the debt of ''government sponsored enterprises.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, said that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have grown faster than their competitors. (Photo by Bloomberg News)Chart: ''Bulking Up''Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have grown rapidly and accumulated a level ofdebt that drew criticism from Alan Greespan, the Federal Reserve chairman.Graphs track securities backed by and loans held by both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from 1980-2002.(Source by Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (94%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%) Freddie Mac; Federal Reserve System; Fannie Mae

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (94%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%) Edmund L Andrews; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004



594 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: OHIO

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Trade and Jobs at Center Stage As Democrats Court Ohio Vote

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: AKRON, Ohio, Feb. 24 

 BODY:
In May, 2002, Representative Tom Sawyer, an eight-term Democrat, was handed a stunning primary election defeat by 28-year-old Tim Ryan in a district stretching from Akron to Youngstown. The major issue was trade.
 Some people in and around Ohio politics think Senator John Edwards of North Carolina has a fighting chance to do the same thing to Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts in the state's presidential primary next Tuesday. Mr. Kerry remains the strong favorite, but there is no question that free trade, and the loss of jobs to which it has contributed, could damage him here.
 The bulk of the vote will be cast in northern Ohio, whose cities have been in economic decline for decades, a trend that has worsened lately. Ohio lost 246,700 jobs in the last three years, 67,000 of them last year -- more than any state except Michigan. Organized labor has called an emergency meeting in May to address the situation. 
 ''There is enormous bitterness among working people on this issue,'' said Mr. Sawyer, who is at least temporarily out of politics, ''and Edwards is in a position to tap into it.''
 In 2002, Mr. Ryan criticized Mr. Sawyer, who was also hurt by redistricting, for his support of trade-liberalization measures, especially the North American Free Trade Agreement. Mr. Edwards has taken a similar tack here, playing up Mr. Kerry's Senate vote for Nafta and his own misgivings about the agreement in speeches to enthusiastic, often overflow crowds in Cleveland, Columbus and Youngstown over the weekend. One of his two commercials that went on the air Sunday is called ''American Jobs.''
 Fighting back, Senator Kerry embarked on what his campaign billed as a ''jobs tour'' across the area of maximum economic distress (and maximum Democratic voting strength). He spoke in Youngstown on Tuesday afternoon, moving on to Cleveland in the evening. On Wednesday, in Toledo, he is scheduled to receive the endorsement of former Senator John Glenn, still by far the state's best-liked Democrat.
 Also on Tuesday, Mr. Kerry began broadcasting a 30-second commercial that features Del Sandusky, a boatmate in the Vietnam War. It is intended to underline his foreign-policy and military credentials.
 Both Mr. Edwards and Mr. Kerry are courting suffering Rust Belt workers. Mr. Edwards has campaigned with locked-out steelworkers in Niles and Mr. Kerry visited a closed auto-parts plant in Dayton, where he said ''the heart has been ripped out of the heartland,'' and a shuttered mill in Youngstown.
 ''I think Edwards has reasonably good prospects here, although going into the final week Kerry is well ahead,'' said John Green, director of the Ray C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at Akron University. ''He is exploiting the trade issue pretty effectively, and it could do him a lot of good.''
 Dennis White, the state party chairman, said he thought Ohio was ''still up for grabs.'' Mr. White said he had been surprised as well as impressed by the crowd Mr. Edwards drew at Ohio State University -- 1,200 people packed into a room at the Ohio Union -- and even more impressed by ''his ability to connect.''
 Mr. Edwards's biggest problem is reaching enough voters quickly enough. He has done best, winning in South Carolina and closing in quickly to finish a strong second in Iowa and Wisconsin, where he has been able to concentrate his attention on a single state for a week or more. But nine other states will vote or hold caucuses on the same day as Ohio, which chooses 140 pledged delegates, including California (370 delegates) and New York (236 delegates).
 Of the three, Ohio probably offers Mr. Edwards the best prospect of pulling off a big upset.
 ''Too little time and too much to do,'' Gerald Austin, a political consultant in Cleveland who is not involved in the presidential race, said of Mr. Edwards. ''He likes retail politics, but with only a week to go, he has to do New York and California, too. You can sometimes make up for lack of campaign time with a real blitz of television, but he doesn't have the money for that.
 ''And remember, he has to win, not just run strongly. Otherwise he ends up like poor Mo Udall, who finished second almost everywhere in 1976.''
 Mr. Kerry is clearly counting on the backing of organized labor, a more important factor in Democratic politics here than in many other states, to inoculate him against accusations that he has cost Ohio and other states jobs with his backing for free trade. But it appears unlikely that the unions will make a big push for him this week.
 In a message posted on the organization's Web site, William A. Burga, president of the Ohio A.F.L.-C.I.O., acknowledged the endorsement of Mr. Kerry by the organization's national leadership. But Mr. Burga reminded members that their main responsibility was winning in November.
 ''At this critical time,'' he said, ''we can't afford to be distracted from our important goal of laying the groundwork needed for Ohio labor to play an effective part in the 2004 election and beyond.''
 Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Cleveland, a long-shot candidate for the Democratic nomination, is expected to pull relatively few votes. His hometown paper, The Plain Dealer, greeted him Sunday with the headline, ''What home-field advantage?''
 The only primary poll, completed before the Wisconsin primary on Feb. 17, breathed new life into the Edwards campaign and forced Howard Dean from the race, showed Mr. Kerry far ahead. 
 Given the time constraints, Ohio has attracted a lot of attention from the candidates. The reason is not so much its convention delegates as its potential importance in November as one of a handful of major battleground states. Mr. Kerry flew here immediately after the Wisconsin voting, and Mayor Charlie Luken of Cincinnati announced, ''Welcome to the battle of Ohio. This is going to be ground zero.''
 Ohio has a record as a bellwether in presidential elections equaled only by Missouri; in this century, it has voted with the winner 23 of 25 times. In 2000, it came within two percentage points of matching the national average. It is often remarked that no Republican has won the presidency without carrying Ohio, and President Bush has visited the state often. But some Republicans have carried the state and failed to take the White House; Richard M. Nixon did so in 1960.
 The state has become more and more Republican in recent years. At the moment, the governor and all the other elected state officers are Republican, as are both senators and 12 of 18 representatives. Both houses of the Legislature are controlled by Republicans.
 In the last 40 years, only Southern Democrats -- Lyndon B. Johnson, Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton twice -- have succeeded in Ohio. One big reason is that the others have had difficulty scoring well ''south of U.S. 40,'' as the local political saying has it -- that is, in the Appalachian counties that were settled from Virginia.
 That might augur well for Mr. Edwards, a Southerner, in the general election if he is nominated. But it will not help him next week, because the Appalachian counties cast few votes in Democratic primaries.
 ''I see this race as a kind of trial heat for the fall,'' said Dale Butland, a Columbus lobbyist who was Mr. Glenn's Ohio chief of staff for many years. ''It's a chance for Kerry and Edwards to introduce themselves to the voters in a state where they are not known, and to raise questions about issues like jobs and education in a state where the trends are going the wrong way.''
 An Ohio Poll, sponsored by the University of Cincinnati and completed Feb. 10, suggested that the economy will be the overwhelming issue in November. It showed President Bush's approval rating at 49 percent, the lowest since he took office, with another 49 percent disapproving and 2 percent unsure.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry talked yesterday with workers in Struthers, Ohio, about health care. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (86%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); TRENDS (74%); REDISTRICTING (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (68%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); VIETNAM WAR (60%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2004; Labor; Election Issues; International Trade and World Market; North American Free Trade Agreement ; Primaries; Political Advertising

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); TIM RYAN (88%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%) John (Sen) Edwards; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); AKRON, OH, USA (90%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (58%); DAYTON, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004



595 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: Putting Bias in the Constitution

 BODY:
With his re-election campaign barely started and his conservative base already demanding tribute, President Bush proposes to radically rewrite the Constitution. The amendment he announced support for yesterday could not only keep gay couples from marrying, as he maintains, but could also threaten the basic legal protections gay Americans have won in recent years. It would inject meanspiritedness and exclusion into the document embodying our highest principles and aspirations. 
 If Mr. Bush had been acting as a president yesterday, rather than a presidential candidate, he would have tried to guide the nation on the divisive question of what rights gay Americans have. Across the nation, elected officials and others have been weighing in on whether they believe gays should be allowed to marry, have civil unions, adopt, visit their partners in hospitals and be free from employment discrimination. Except for a throwaway line about proceeding with ''kindness and good will and decency,'' the president's speech was a call for taking rights away from gay Americans.
 President Bush's studied unwillingness to talk about the rights gay people do have is particularly significant given the wording of the Federal Marriage Amendment now pending in Congress. It calls for denying same-sex couples not only marriage, but also its ''legal incidents.'' It could well be used to deny gay couples even economic benefits, which are now widely recognized by cities, states and corporations. Such an amendment could radically roll back the rights of millions of Americans.
 In his remarks yesterday, President Bush tried to create a sense of crisis. He talked of the highest Massachusetts court's recognition of gay marriage, San Francisco officials' decision to grant marriage licenses to gay couples and a New Mexico county's doing the same thing. He did not say the New Mexico attorney general found that gay marriages violate state law, the California attorney general is asking the California Supreme Court to review San Francisco's actions, and Massachusetts is considering amending its State Constitution to prohibit gay marriage. The president, who believes so strongly in states' rights in other contexts, should let the states do their jobs and work out their marriage laws before resorting to a constitutional amendment.
 The Constitution has been amended over the years to bring women, blacks and young people into fuller citizenship. President Bush's amendment would be the first adopted to stigmatize and exclude a group of Americans. Polls show that while a majority of Americans oppose gay marriage, many would prefer to allow the states to resolve the issue rather than adopting a constitutional amendment. They understand what President Bush does not: the Constitution is too important to be folded, spindled or mutilated for political gain. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); COHABITATION (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%) Marriages; Editorials; Homosexuality; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Constitutional Amendments; Marriages

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004



596 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: North Korea May Get Aid If It Pledges Nuclear Curb

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN and DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24 

 BODY:
North Korea will be offered economic aid in return for a pledge to freeze and eventually dismantle its nuclear weapons facilities, according to senior Asian and American officials. But they said the offer was expected to be presented by South Korea, not the United States, in talks beginning on Wednesday in Beijing.
 The informal agreement between Washington and its Asian partners on how to approach North Korea represents a partial retreat by the Bush administration, which has long insisted that it would not reward the North for simply freezing its nuclear weapons program. Administration officials argue that no aid will go to North Korea until it pledges to move past a freeze and actually dismantle every part of its nuclear program in a manner that can be verified. 
 An Asian official said the proposed aid program would resume fuel oil shipments that were halted in late 2002, after the United States discovered that North Korea had violated a pledge it made eight years earlier to freeze the nuclear weapons program in return for energy assistance.
 By extending the new offer through its Asian partners, which have long argued for compromise, President Bush can argue that he is not giving in to what he has called nuclear blackmail.
 The hope is to move North Korea from a freeze to the next and most difficult stage, taking apart a nuclear program that it has been building up for three decades.
 There were hints as early as last August that Washington might be receptive to an Asian offer of incentives to the North. 
 Secretary of State Colin L. Powell confirmed in an interview late on Monday that the United States would offer no economic benefit to the North in the first phase of a plan to dismantle its weapons.
 ''I would certainly like to see an articulation at this meeting that they are prepared to give up their program in an irreversible, verifiable and complete way,'' he said. ''How we start that, they might be able to freeze, but it can't be a freeze standing alone. It has to be a freeze connected to a total.''
 He said the only American plan to offer something to North Korea at the talks would involve some kind of security assurances in which all parties in the talks -- including China, Japan, South Korea and Russia -- would pledge not to attack the North.
 Many Asian and American experts and officials say that in recent months the North has moved away from its initial demand for such security pledges to a more urgent demand for economic and energy aid.
 An Asian official said that it would be unlikely for South Korea to be very specific about the energy offer, but that it would probably be only a small fraction of the 500,000 tons of fuel oil a year halted in 2002.
 The offer reflects the difference of approach toward North Korea between the United States and its partners, especially China.
 Like South Korea, China believes it is important to present incentives to the North and not force it to acknowledge its nuclear program in every detail. The best way to get progress, they say, is to coax it along gently.
 An Asian diplomat disclosed, for example, that China agreed this month to build a bottle manufacturing plant in North Korea in honor of President Kim Jong Il's birthday as a way to get the North to come to a new round of talks.
 Administration officials said Mr. Bush was unlikely to object to the offer after it was made.
 ''If it doesn't cross what might be considered an objectionable red line of ours, then I don't know that we would object to what another party might want to do,'' said a senior administration official, referring to the South Korean offer.
 An Asian official said the North would have to pause for a moment before reversing course. He said it might be asked to go from a ''freeze'' to actual dismantlement in a very short time.
 ''The metaphor that everybody is using is that if you are in forward gear, and if your car is moving forward, and you want to make it go backward, you have to stop the car first,'' the Asian official said. ''The U.S. thinks that you shouldn't have to stop it for very long. We would like it to be a few months.''
 Diplomats consider the new approach to have great resonance with North Korea. Both American and Asian officials say they have gotten signals through China that the North may be more forthcoming than some had thought possible.
 Administration officials say it is especially important to get North Korea to acknowledge the existence of -- and to pledge to dismantle -- all its nuclear programs. At present, it acknowledges it has a plutonium facility that administration officials believe may have produced one or two bombs.
 But in addition, intelligence reaching the United States in 2002 suggested that North Korea also had a nuclear weapons program involving highly enriched uranium, a technology that it is believed to have built up with the help of Pakistan.
 Administration officials say recent disclosures about Pakistan's wide network of sales of sophisticated technology -- involving Libya and Iran as well as North Korea -- has bolstered their case against North Korea. The disclosures have also strengthened the administration's determination that the North dismantle the program for enriching uranium as well as the one for plutonium. The North has denied a uranium-enriching operation, and American intelligence officials say they do not know the location of the site. 
 It is not clear how explicit the demands for dismantling all those programs will be. China is said to believe that it would be better to demand a kind of blanket pledge that does not force North Korea to back away immediately from its denials that it has a uranium facility.
 Some administration officials also say that intelligence has been assembled quickly in recent days from Pakistan, and that negotiators in Beijing may wish to confront North Korea with evidence of its program if it continues to deny that one exists.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Colin L. Powell at a news briefing on Monday. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TRENDS (78%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); ENERGY DEMAND (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) United States International Relations; Foreign Aid; Economic Conditions and Trends; Atomic Weapons

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Steven R Weisman; David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush; Colin L (Sec) Powell

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (93%); JAPAN (79%) North Korea; South Korea; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004



597 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Libyan Casts Doubt on Plane-Bombing Guilt, Ending Thaw for Now

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER

DATELINE: LONDON, Feb. 24 

 BODY:
Libya's prime minister, Shukri Ghanem, brought the thaw in relations between his nation and the West to a sudden standstill on Tuesday by suggesting that Libya was not responsible for the Lockerbie bombing and other major acts of terrorism, even though it has agreed to pay compensation to victims' families and accepted responsibility in writing. 
 The Bush administration reacted strongly, demanding a retraction. And some of Mr. Ghanem's close associates in government told Western colleagues, one of them said, that the prime minister might be forced to resign over the remarks, which cut against the grain of the country's rapprochement with the West. 
 In an interview with BBC radio on Tuesday morning, Mr. Ghanem, speaking from the Libyan capital, Tripoli, said that ''we thought it was easier for us to buy peace'' with the United States and Britain, ''and this is why we agreed on compensation'' in the Lockerbie case. 
 Pan Am Flight 103 exploded over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988, killing 270 people, mostly Americans.
 Mr. Ghanem also said he believed that Libya was not responsible for the death of a British policewoman, Yvonne Fletcher, killed in front of the Libyan Embassy in 1984. Libya formally accepted ''general responsibility'' for Ms. Fletcher's death in 1999 as part of the agreement to re-establish relations with Britain.
 The Bush administration had been expected to lift the longstanding ban on travel to Libya this week, but White House and State Department officials pointedly put off any announcement on Tuesday. Instead, they demanded that the Libyan government disassociate itself from the prime minister's statements.
 ''We would expect a retraction from the Libyan government,'' said Richard A. Boucher, the State Department spokesman. ''We, and the United Nations, demanded that Libya formally accept responsibility for the actions of its officials in the Pan Am 103 bombing,'' he said. ''Libya did so in a letter that had no ambiguity to the United Nations Security Council on Aug. 15, 2003.'' 
 Mr. Ghanem's remarks represented the first serious setback since the Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, declared on Dec. 19 that Libya would abandon all attempts to develop unconventional weapons and was seeking a new relationship with the West. He was congratulated by President Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, who is expected to meet with Colonel Qaddafi in the spring. 
 American and British intelligence officials have worked intensively since January to dismantle, evacuate or prepare for destruction Libya's illicit weapons technologies, and American and British officials have praised Libya's cooperation, as Jack Straw, the British foreign secretary, did again on Tuesday. American officials have also taken the first steps toward re-establishing diplomatic representation in Tripoli. 
 Mr. Straw seemed at pains to place greater emphasis on the written statements the Libyan government has rendered. 
 ''We take account of the reported remarks of the Libyan prime minister, but we take even greater account of the formal communications from the government of Libya,'' he said. 
 But the Bush administration took a markedly stronger line. Mr. Boucher said the prime minister's statements, if not withdrawn, would ''certainly'' be ''a factor that we would need to take into account as we decide how to proceed'' with Libya. He indicated that other steps in improving relations, like the lifting of sanctions, could not proceed without clarification.
 ''We need to understand that the Libyan position is the one they stated authoritatively to the United Nations in writing, for all the other steps to continue apace,'' he said.
 One close associate of Mr. Ghanem in Europe said the prime minister was ''inexperienced'' in diplomacy and somewhat ''argumentative'' in the position Colonel Qaddafi created for him last June to encourage an economic reform program.
 Mr. Ghanem is considered to be one of the most progressive members of Colonel Qaddafi's government, and some experts suggested that those who oppose his reforms may be among the first to call for his resignation on Wednesday. 
 One of his Western friends said Mr. Ghanem, an economist who studied in the United States and worked in Vienna for OPEC, had privately said that if he believed that his government was responsible for blowing up Flight 103, then he could not serve it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); AIRLINES (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (70%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (61%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%) International Relations; United States International Relations; Airlines and Airplanes; Terrorism; Bombs and Explosives; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (70%)

ORGANIZATION: Pan American World Airways Inc

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (70%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TONY BLAIR (58%); JACK STRAW (50%) Shukri (Prime Min) Ghanem; Patrick E Tyler; Yvonne (D1984) Fletcher; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (89%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); SCOTLAND (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%) Libya; Great Britain; Lockerbie (Scotland); Libya; London (Eng)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004



598 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: With a Recovering Economy, The Day of the Big Deal Is Back

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
By his own admission, William B. Harrison would have been vilified for negotiating a merger a year ago. 
 Not only was Mr. Harrison, chief executive of J. P. Morgan Chase, still trying to justify the deal that brought J. P. Morgan and Chase Manhattan together, he was under fire for missteps that linked the bank to corporate scandals and what he described as ''the populist backlash against corporate America.''
 So it was something of a surprise that J. P. Morgan made another big acquisition last month, agreeing to buy Bank One for $58 billion in stock. More surprising still was the reaction: investors cheered. 
 With the economy improving and memories fading of the disastrous deals during the last stock market boom -- combinations like America Online and Time Warner and Vivendi and Seagram -- big-time Wall Street deal making is back.
 The successful 11th-hour offer last week by Cingular Wireless to buy AT&T Wireless for $41 billion in cash was the largest all-cash deal in history, eclipsing the acquisition of RJR Nabisco by the buyout firm of Kohlberg, Kravis Roberts for more than $25 billion in 1988, when corporate raiders were financing deals with the aggressive use of junk bonds.
 Likewise, the Comcast Corporation's audacious $54 billion hostile bid for the Walt Disney Company seems to signal the beginning of a new cycle of merger mania. Though the investment banking and law firms are not hiring in droves yet and the celebratory closing dinners are more Ruby Foo's than Nobu, there is a palpable sense that heady days are here. And that feeling has given a lift to stocks and generated speculation about all kinds of deals that would not have been possible a year ago. 
 ''People are looking at expansion again,'' said Brian L. Roberts, chairman and chief executive of Comcast, explaining that a year ago he was hamstrung by his focus on integrating AT&T's cable business and by a lagging Comcast stock price.
 So what has changed?
 Executives and bankers cite an improving economy, the stock market recovery in recent months and a little more certainty in the world.
 ''There's a one-word answer: confidence,'' said Roger C. Altman, chairman of the investment banking boutique Evercore Partners and a former deputy Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration. ''If your own business is flat or worse,'' he said, alluding to the difficult economy in recent years, ''it's difficult to say to shareholders that the right thing to do is this big combination.''
 Of course, business history is littered with failed mergers, and academic studies have long suggested that fewer than half of all deals work. Some experts argue that the current confidence in the boardroom may be misplaced.
 ''You would think that they would do these deals when the markets are down and things are cheap,'' said Bruce Greenwald, a professor of finance at Columbia Business School. ''It's crazy. It's countercyclical. As soon as the markets start to perform, all of a sudden they can get away with this.''
 Still, for better or worse, confidence seems to have returned with abundance. Some companies, with their share prices up, are now willing to use stock to make acquisitions. Since the beginning of the year, corporate marriages worth more than $370 billion have been made -- or at least proposed -- worldwide, outpacing the volume of deals in 1999, according to Thomson Financial, a firm that tracks mergers.
 Even the usually cautious French, still dismayed about the fate of Vivendi, are jumping into the deal-making fray and employing decidedly Anglo-Saxon tactics. The French pharmaceutical company Sanofi-Synthelabo made a $63 billion hostile bid last month for its national rival, Aventis -- with the French government's blessing. Officials' support for the deal was particularly fascinating because it meant that the government was willing to incur job layoffs in the interest of fashioning a French titan.
 Indeed, the arguments for most mergers are the cost savings that will result from job cuts. But many companies have already cut jobs and costs to survive the downturn so the loss of more jobs, just as the economy is improving, may seem a bit at odds.
 And despite the wave of deals and offers, Wall Street firms have yet to engage in the kind of hiring of investment bankers that characterized the booming merger market of the late 1990's. While the banks went on a job-cutting spree in the last couple of years, they never pared enough to require a large number of new hires. In addition, many of the recent deals have either yet to be completed or, as was the case with Bank One and J.P. Morgan, were negotiated with at least some in-house bankers.
 Nevertheless, with their coffers full of bond-trading profits and their staffs at lean levels, analysts expect hiring for top investment banks to pick up in coming quarters -- especially by those banks like Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Citigroup that have been in the thick of the recent activity.
 ''You will see that the banks that dominate the league tables will be the ones in a better position to justify hiring,'' said Richard Strauss, a securities analyst with Deutsche Bank. ''But I think people want to see some of these deals close first.''
 Still, just this Monday, Deutsche Bank recruited 10 technology bankers from Credit Suisse First Boston in anticipation of a revival of deal making in the industry. And bonuses -- which had been cut by more than a half in recent years -- could swell again this year, compensation experts said.
 For the bankers and lawyers now involved in deals, these are busy times indeed. Associates at the law firm of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz in Manhattan, for example, could only take naps at their desks as they worked nonstop through the three-day Washington's Birthday weekend on both the bidding for AT&T Wireless and Disney's defense against Comcast. Investment bankers involved gave up family vacations. 
 The potential rewards for all that work, of course, can be great. Comcast's bankers could share nearly $100 million in fees if the bid for Disney is successful. But it could also be all for naught. As a rule, banking firms are not paid unless a deal is completed and with so many big, risky hostile bids in the market -- Comcast-Disney, Oracle-PeopleSoft, Sanofi-Aventis, to name a few -- chances are that some will never happen. 
 Succeeding in a hostile takeover, though, generally comes with a higher fee than a friendly deal -- sometimes tens of millions of dollars more. (Of course, top mergers-and-acquisitions lawyers still get their $600 an hour and sometimes more, no matter what happens.) 
 And while hostile offers perhaps require greater gumption, if the last month is any indication there seems to be a flood of that.
 ''The risks of a public unsolicited offer or interloping bid, while still not commonplace, is on the increase and should not be ignored,'' Martin Lipton, a founding partner of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, wrote in a speech he plans to give tomorrow at a mergers-and-acquisitions conference in Los Angeles. ''Indeed there are those who believe that there will be a merger boom characterized by drawn-out contested takeovers.''
 But have any of these deal makers learned from the recent era of bad deals that even led to scandal by serial acquirers like Enron and Tyco International?
 Some say they have changed their ways. Both Comcast's offer for Disney and J.P. Morgan Chase's deal with Bank One would provide shareholders with very little beyond the market price for their shares. Comcast offered a meager 10 percent premium over Disney's share price -- a reason Disney cites for rejecting it -- and J.P. Morgan offered a 14 percent premium.
 ''It's a different world,'' Mr. Roberts said, explaining his need to be conservative. ''It's a new era of low premiums.''
 Mr. Harrison of J.P. Morgan Chase was a bit more blunt. ''We were very disciplined on this deal,'' he said, ''because we were criticized for overpaying in the past.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Picking Up The Pace''The number of proposed mergers and acquisitions has more than doubled this year compared with last year, in part because of a surge in unsolicited offers.Largest hostile and accepted deals in 2004ANNOUNCED: Jan. 26TARGET COMPANY: AventisACQUIRER: Sanofi-SynthelaboVALUE OF DEAL (in billions): $60.0ANNOUNCED: Jan. 1TARGET COMPANY: Bank OneACQUIRER: J.P. Morgan ChaseVALUE OF DEAL (in billions): 58.0ANNOUNCED: Feb. 11TARGET COMPANY: Walt DisneyACQUIRER: ComcastVALUE OF DEAL (in billions): 54.1ANNOUNCED: Feb. 17TARGET COMPANY: AT&T WirelessACQUIRER: Cingular WirelessVALUE OF DEAL (in billions): 41.0ANNOUNCED: Feb. 16TARGET COMPANY: GreenPoint FinancialACQUIRER: North Fork BancorpVALUE OF DEAL (in billions): 6.3Graph tracks announced value of merger-and acquisition offers Jan. 1 to Feb. 24 of each year from 1994 through 2004, (excluding and including hostile deals).(Source by Thomson Financial)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); MERGERS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BONDS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); DIVESTITURES (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); LEGAL SERVICES (66%); SCANDALS (56%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (51%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (93%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); COMCAST CORP (84%); AT&T INC (83%); KKR & CO LP (82%); WALT DISNEY CO (67%); VIVENDI (56%); AOL INC (56%); KRAFT NABISCO (55%); EVERCORE PARTNERS INC (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); CMCSA (NASDAQ) (84%); CCV (NYSE) (84%); T (NYSE) (83%); KKR (NYSE) (82%); DIS (NYSE) (67%); VIV (PAR) (56%); VIV (BIT) (56%); AOL (NYSE) (56%); EVR (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (67%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (67%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (67%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (67%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (55%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: BRIAN L ROBERTS (58%); ROGER ALTMAN (58%); PAT ROBERTS (50%) Andrew Ross Sorkin

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004



599 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1; A Place of Escape May Survive, Barely

LENGTH: 1506 words

HEADLINE: Parts of Ornate Theater in Queens Included in Condo Plan

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
That palace of wonders, the RKO Keith's Flushing Theater in Queens, will never rise again. But there could still be a coming attraction: the amazing new curtain. 
 Envision a 50-by-100-foot wall of undulating glass, appearing to float at the junction of Main Street and Northern Boulevard, just where the abandoned theater now squats. After dark, the glass curtain would showcase the ornate, landmark 1928 lobby of the Keith's. 
 The $2 million glass wall is to enclose key elements of the ramshackle ruin of the theater, a once-grand Moorish fantasy that has been a civic eyesore for more than a decade. The curtain would be a gesture toward hallowed ground, where generations of Flushing residents had their school commencements, saw their first film as a child, went on their first date or stole their first kiss. 
 The wall of glass is the planned cynosure of a $100 million mixed-use building to be called the RKO Plaza. It is to accommodate 250 condominium apartments and 260 parking spaces. There would be restaurants, retail stores and a senior center. And the building would incorporate the Keith's lobby and grand foyer. 
 Of course, this structure could never be the original RKO Keith's. But in Flushing, out where the No. 7 subway line ends one stop beyond Shea Stadium, some say that the new development is preferable to the rotting tooth that the old theater has become. 
 ''It will put the crown back on Main Street,'' said Helen Marshall, the Queens borough president. ''It will bring life to that area.''
 The Keith's, as everyone has called it forever, was bought in 2002 by Boymelgreen Developers after a 17-year dispute between the city and its previous owner, Thomas J. Huang, during which Mr. Huang admitted to letting 200 gallons of oil leak from the RKO's furnace and lying about having cleaned it up.
 Jay Valgora, the design principal of WalkerGroup, which has designed buildings in Bilbao, Spain; Santiago, Chile; Tokyo and New York, said engineering studies had found that the theater was ''so devastated that little of it can be saved.'' WalkerGroup's V Studio division is the architect for RKO Plaza. T. William Kim, the RKO project developer for Boymelgreen, said the damaged building could no longer be economically viable as a theater. But, he said, ''we hope to develop a trophy tower that references its historical past and evokes a sense of the theatrical.'' And so, Mr. Kim said, the building would have to be large enough to justify the expense of restoration. 
 But on Monday night, after a spirited three-hour meeting, Community Board 7 voted 35-0 against the zoning variance that Boymelgreen is seeking, to accommodate 375,000 square feet of condominiums in a 19-story building. 
 ''When is large too big?'' asked Chuck Apelian, chairman of the community board's landmarks committee. ''We're worried that it will change the character of the neighborhood.'' 
 Board members and community residents peppered the developer's team with questions about the building's bulk. Some asked why no low- and middle-income housing had been included, while others wondered if the building couldn't be restored as a performing arts space.
 After the meeting, Councilman John C. Liu commented that ''everyone wants this building to be built,'' but nevertheless praised the community board ''for sending a message that no developer should expect a blank check as far as the size of a building, and the profit to be made.'' 
 ''How the community board feels is important to us,'' Mr. Kim of Boymelgreen said, ''but it is hard for us to placate everybody. So the process will move forward.'' 
 The community board's vote is not binding on the developer, and Boymelgreen will now submit the proposal for the final approval of the Board of Standards and Appeals, which can approve, deny or request amendments to the design. Construction could be completed as early as 2006.
 Mr. Valgora, the architect, said he sees the building as a dialogue between past and present, and his primary homage to the venerable theater is the new curtain of glass. ''I hope its effect will be surreal,'' Mr. Valgora said, ''to suggest the dreams that were the stuff of the original theater.'' 
 The 45,000-pound glass wall is to be fabricated in Madrid, and will be strung like a harp, entirely supported by a tracery of stainless steel cables. 
 Behind it, there will be commercial spaces, a lobby accessible to the public, and restaurants and cafes. The angled building will offer its residents panoramic vistas of Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Shea Stadium and the skyline of Manhattan.
 In addition to the incorporation of the Keith's two landmark rooms into the lobby, an exhibit will display as many of the theater's old details as can be saved. 
 The current plan's design elements have already been reviewed by the City Planning Commission and approved by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission. ''The commission is very glad to see that this landmark will not only be restored but incorporated into the new building so it will be open and accessible,'' said Mark A. Silberman, the preservation commission's general counsel. ''It is a great end to a sad and bizarre story.'' 
 The theater rose in 1928, the year after the advent of talking pictures, and was built for $750,000 by Thomas Lamb, a prolific theater architect who also designed the Cort, Strand and Rialto theaters in the city. 
 With 2,974 seats, it was among the city's largest theaters and opened as a combination vaudeville and movie house under the name ''Keith-Albee-Vaudeville,'' and was later renamed the RKO Keith's, for the Radio-Keith-Orpheum circuit. Audiences were treated to vaudeville shows and a feature film for 25 cents.
 According to architectural historians, as recently as the 1980's the Keith's was one of the few surviving examples of the uniquely American institution of the movie palace, rarer still for its design in the ''atmospheric'' style, aiming to produce an illusion of open outdoor space: a Moorish townscape in the overblown style of the Spanish architect Jose Churriguera. This fantasia of gilded plaster, Spanish-style murals, cut-glass chandeliers and polychromatic terra cotta had stage-set interior walls and skylike plaster ceilings.
 Sitting in the Keith's ''was like having your own private palace,'' recalled Jerry Rotondi, acting head of the Committee to Save RKO Keith's Flushing Theater, a 24-year-old community group. He remembers back to the 1950's when electric bulbs in the blue ceiling traced the shapes of the constellations; moving clouds were projected to enhance the outdoor illusion. 
 ''If the movie was bad, it didn't matter,'' Mr. Rotondi said. ''You could look at the theater.'' 
 But the Keith's was beset by changing theater economics following World War II, and finally succumbed to triplexation in the 1970's. Its fate was sealed in the era of Donald Manes, the Queens borough president who, facing a bribery and racketeering investigation, killed himself in 1986. Although the entire theater was proposed for landmark status in 1984, the Manes administration intervened so that only the lobby and grand foyer were to be preserved. 
 After Mr. Huang bought the building, the lights went out on Labor Day in 1986. Before preservationists could intervene, the developer tore down part of the auditorium. After a decade of lawsuits, city inspectors found the oil leak. Even before he paid a $5,000 fine and was sentenced to probation in 1997, Mr. Huang put up a for-sale sign, but the historical baggage, and the theater's condition, scared away would-be buyers. ''I used to take my children there, and it was out of this world,'' said Ms. Marshall, the borough president. ''I can't tell you how sad it was to see that place all boarded up.'' 
 Inside, the theater is now a blasted ruin, a Sistine Chapel for connoisseurs of decay. The missing backstage wall exposes the auditorium to the elements. Peeling paint hangs in great sheets; ornamental plaster is shed into the void. 
 Still in place are a few of the decorative brass railings, cast with leaping fish. Nearby, a few oil-painted murals survive in their niches, bearing blasted but still-visible depictions of quaint Spanish villages. In the lobby, though, the original mahogany ticket booth stands indomitably. ''The theater was so well loved, it's still seen as the center of the neighborhood,'' said Mr. Rotondi, adding that despite its ruination ''there is still a theater watch to this day -- neighbors who keep an eye out looking for vandals or suspicious activity.'' 
 Even now, the old theater evokes powerful emotion. ''I saw my first movie here,'' said Councilman Liu. ''I was with my father and two younger brothers.'' On a recent afternoon, for the first time in two decades, he visited the hulk of a theater and gazed above the bones of the old orchestra pit to the forlorn original theater curtain -- still there, depicting an orange and blue Spanish galleon breaking the waves. 
 ''My goodness,'' he said. ''That's the curtain I saw as a child.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: The lobby of the RKO Keith's Flushing Theater, top, and details of ornamental brass along a staircase railing in the 1928 building. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
A rendering of the proposed glass wall in front of the RKO Keith's Flushing Theater on Northern Boulevard in Queens, and the exterior as it stands today. The theater closed its doors in 1986. (Photo by V Studio / WalkerGroup)
 (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (74%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); ENGINEERING (72%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); ZONING (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%); RESTAURANTS (67%); TOOTH DISORDERS (64%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); RETAILERS (52%) Housing; Motion Pictures; Condominiums; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Theaters (Buildings)

ORGANIZATION: Rko Plaza (Flushing, Queens)

PERSON: Glenn Collins

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (76%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (73%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHILE (76%); SPAIN (69%) New York City; Flushing (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004



600 of 710 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Investigator Quits Rowland Inquiry, Citing Possible Conflict

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Feb. 24 

 BODY:
An investigator hired last week by the House committee that will decide whether to recommend the impeachment of Gov. John G. Rowland has resigned, citing a possible conflict of interest.
 The investigator, Bart M. Schwartz, resigned on Monday after discovering that his former company, Decision Strategies, had done work for the Tomasso Group, a state contractor whose gifts to Mr. Rowland are part of the impeachment inquiry. 
 Mr. Schwartz was hired last Thursday, and his resignation will slow the committee's work only slightly, said Representative John Wayne Fox, the committee's Democratic co-chairman. Members expect to hire a new investigator this Thursday, Mr. Fox said.
 The committee also expects to issue its first batch of several dozen subpoenas on Thursday, Mr. Fox said. Mr. Rowland's office has offered to supply the committee with more than 30,000 pages of documents already given to federal investigators, Mr. Fox said. ''That will help us get started,'' he added.
 Mr. Schwartz, a former federal prosecutor, said that there was no actual conflict of interest but that he did not wish to create any distractions or perceived problems for the committee. He left Decision Strategies in April 2003 and was unaware that the company's Hartford office was hired by the Tomasso Group three weeks earlier, while he was on sick leave, he said.
 The resignation was first reported on Tuesday in The Hartford Courant. It came three days after P.J. Delahunty, a state official who has been under scrutiny because of his links to Mr. Rowland, resigned as a manager in the Department of Public Works. Mr. Delahunty resigned after learning that his salary would be cut in half, to $55,000.
 Mr. Delahunty, a friend of the governor, signed a state lease with a major Rowland contributor that the state attorney general's office labeled a ''sweetheart deal.'' And a construction company owned by Mr. Delahunty's family did free work on Mr. Rowland's Litchfield cottage in 1997. 
 It was after Mr. Rowland admitted to lying about free work and gifts at that cottage that the impeachment inquiry began. William J. Sweeney, a lawyer for Mr. Delahunty, declined to comment on the matter Tuesday.
 Also on Tuesday, the University of Connecticut issued a quarterly economic review containing an article suggesting that political corruption could curtail job growth. 
 The article, by Stephen P. Lanza, says that Connecticut is low in corruption compared with other states. But it also cites a study concluding that one additional conviction per 100 elected officials reduces job growth by 1.1 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CORRUPTION (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); ETHICS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SUBPOENAS (74%); LAWYERS (68%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%); SICK LEAVE (50%) Politics and Government; Ethics; Impeachment; Governors (US); Gifts

ORGANIZATION: Decision Strategies; Tomasso Group (Co)

PERSON: Robert F Worth; John G (Gov) Rowland; Bart M Schwartz

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004

 
