

1 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Seattle Schools Take Stock After Justices Issue Ruling

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: SEATTLE, June 30 

 BODY:
Megan Peterson sat in the grass outside Ballard High School last week on the day before summer break started and offered an eyewitness account of how her school had changed.
 ''When we were freshman there were a lot more people of color than there are now,'' said Megan, who is 17 and will be a senior next fall. ''Every year it's less and less.''
 Every year since 2002, that is, when Seattle Public Schools stopped using race as a factor in assigning students to high school. Ballard, in a gentrifying neighborhood known for its heritage of Scandinavian immigrants, has the smallest proportion of nonwhite students of any of the 10 main high schools in the district. 
 And Megan, who is Hispanic, is right: the number of nonwhite students has been getting smaller, down to 625 last year from 701 in the 2001-2002 school year, to 37 percent of the student body from 43 percent.
 Yet this week, when the Supreme Court struck down the district's use of race to determine where some students attended high school, known as an integration tiebreaker, district officials here said the ruling was not a defeat but an affirmation that their heart was in the right place, that the rest was just a matter of execution. 
 In the short term, while many school districts across the country may be forced to revise or abandon race-based assignment plans, Seattle -- which suspended its policy five years ago amid legal challenges that led to the Supreme Court ruling -- will feel strikingly little impact from the ruling it helped prompt.
 But school officials say the Supreme Court decision, which left room for the use of race in limited circumstances, eventually will help them find new ways to steer schools like Ballard back toward more diversity, not less, a position that all but ensures that the debate over race and its distribution among schools here will be revived, not resolved by the ruling.
 For a city that regards itself as progressively liberal and is not often viewed as having the painful racial legacy shared by so many other American cities, Seattle has a history of sharply segregated neighborhoods, struggling public schools and the flight of white families.
 Through transfers, busing and complicated school-choice plans, the school district has been pursuing integration for four decades. Not everyone, however, has chosen to participate. The city, with one of the nation's highest median household incomes, also has one of the highest rates of private school attendance in the country.
 This week, school officials seized on the opinions of the four dissenting justices in the 5-to-4 decision and the view of Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, who agreed with the majority but also emphasized ''the important work of bringing together students of different racial, ethnic and economic backgrounds.''
 Gary L. Ikeda, the general counsel for the school district, said, ''The heartening thing is that a majority of the court reaffirmed the principle of diversity in public education, and in Justice Kennedy's opinion we now have some clarification in terms of how the heck we're going to do that.''
 The parents who challenged the Seattle plan, however, emphasized that they were the ones who won in court on Thursday, and they urged the district to move beyond what they said was a preoccupation with social engineering rather than academics.
 ''This obsession with race has hurt our schools,'' said Jill Kurfirst, one of the parents who formed a nonprofit corporation to challenge the district. ''It is time for the district to refocus its energy on improving all schools in all neighborhoods.''
 School officials say that is their intention, but that promoting diversity must be part of the effort.
 ''By working in teams and interacting day to day with individuals different than themselves, students learn to better understand and respect themselves and others,'' Raj Manhas, the district superintendent, said the day of the ruling. ''They also learn to function in an increasingly global community and marketplace. Collaboration is the way of the future and these are skills best learned early in life.
 Last week, even as the district awaited the court's ruling, the school board approved a framework for a new assignment plan that includes the goal of ''fostering diversity'' and potentially using race as a means to do so.
 With the tiebreaker suspended during the last five years, school officials have pointed to high schools like Ballard, in the northern part of the city, and Franklin, a nearly century-old school south of downtown that has gone from 79 percent nonwhite to 91 percent, as evidence of the demographic trends that can take hold without intervention.
 Opponents say the district is trying to fix something that is not broken.
 ''The whitest school in the district is still more than one-third nonwhite,'' said Harry Korrell, a lawyer who represented the parents who sued the district. ''That doesn't strike me as a segregated school district.''
 Seattle was never formally segregated by law, but a mix of housing restrictions and economic inequality sharply divided the city by race. By the late 1990s, with complaints rising that schools were unequal, the district began allowing students to help choose the school they attended. 
 The integration tiebreaker was intended to push all 10 comprehensive high schools toward the demographics of the overall student population, which is about 60 percent nonwhite. The district initially required schools to keep their enrollment within 10 points of the overall percentage but later changed it to 15. 
 The policy was more notable for the litigation it sparked than for its practical impact. The policy the court struck down applied only to high school enrollment, and it affected only about 300 students each year of the 46,000 in the district. 
 In light of the court ruling, school officials are already emphasizing newer efforts to promote diversity with the indirect emphasis on race they believe the court will tolerate. They include placing appealing academic programs in schools that have particularly heavy minority populations in an effort to attract more white students and possibly redrawing enrollment boundaries around economically diverse neighborhoods to bring a broader mix of students to certain schools. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cheryl Graves, left, Pamela Oakes and Ronnie Bryant of Seattle Schools at a briefing Thursday on the ruling. (Photograph by Joe Nicholson/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (87%); SUPREME COURTS (87%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SCHOOL ATTENDANCE (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); EYEWITNESSES (78%); CITY LIFE (75%); FAMILY (75%); SCHOOL CHOICE (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); APPEALS (72%); CITIES (61%)

PERSON: ANTHONY KENNEDY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (95%) WASHINGTON, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2007



2 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Goods Face More Tests By U.S. Firms

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ. 
Kai Ma contributed reporting.

 BODY:
General Mills, Kellogg, Toys ''R'' Us and other big American companies are increasing their scrutiny of thousands of everyday products they receive from Chinese suppliers, as widening recalls of items like toys and toothpaste force them to focus on potential hazards that were overlooked in the past. 
 These corporations are stepping up their analysis of imported goods that they sell, making more unannounced visits to Chinese factories for inspections and, in one case, pulling merchandise from American shelves at the first hint of a problem.
 General Mills, which makes food products like Pillsbury dough and Chex cereals, is testing for potential contaminants that it did not look for previously, although it would not name the substances. Kellogg has increased its use of outside services that scrutinize Chinese suppliers and has identified alternative suppliers if vital ingredients become unavailable. And Toys ''R'' Us recently hired two senior executives in new positions to oversee procurement and product safety, mainly for goods made in China. 
 ''We're thinking in new ways about this,'' said Tom Forsythe, a spokesman for General Mills. ''We're looking for things we didn't look for in the past.''
 A Kellogg spokeswoman, Kris Charles, confirmed that retailers had asked whether the company used ingredients from China that were banned by the Food and Drug Administration, including wheat gluten and soy protein.
 The company had not, Ms. Charles said, but Kellogg took the extra step of scrutinizing the ingredients that it does import from China, like vitamins, honey, cinnamon, water chestnuts and freeze-dried strawberries. It also screened its Chinese suppliers for links to the recent pet food recall.
 The discovery over the last few months of tainted or defective products from China -- including toothpaste, tires, toys and fish -- has prompted United States lawmakers to fault companies for compromising quality in their quest for inexpensive imports and higher profits.
 If companies do not improve their safeguards and more tainted goods are found to be entering the United States, the safety of imports could take on a bigger political dimension, the lawmakers said.
 ''Food companies have been among the most resistant to informing the public about their ingredients,'' said Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, who has been a leading Congressional critic of China. ''Now that's more worrisome because these ingredients are coming from an unregulated environment.''
 No fatalities or serious injuries from Chinese food products have been reported in the United States, although counterfeit Chinese glycerine has been linked to at least 100 deaths in Panama. In May, senior members of the Bush administration, including the secretary of agriculture, Mike Johanns, raised the food safety issue with Chinese officials during trade talks in Washington. And last week, in a step designed to reassure Western customers, the Chinese government said it had closed 180 food plants and identified 23,000 safety violations.
 Although they affect only a fraction of imports from China, the rising tempo of alerts, including an F.D.A. restriction imposed on Thursday on sales of five types of Chinese-farmed seafood, has called attention to China's sudden emergence as a major agricultural exporter. Between 2002 and 2006, F.D.A.-regulated imports of food from China rose from just over 100,000 shipments to nearly 235,000. Experts predict those shipments will reach 300,000 this year.
 The spate of recalls and the rising volume of exports have highlighted another worry: the increasing dependence of the United States's biggest food manufacturers on China for basic additives like apple juice, a common sweetener, and preservatives like ascorbic acid. 
 These little-known additives form the building blocks of many popular staples in American kitchens, keeping fruit from turning brown or providing the sweetness in breakfast bars. Food experts note, for example, that China supplies more than half of all the apple juice imported to the United States, up from a fraction a decade ago. 
 Other critical but common additives have followed an even sharper trajectory, according to Peter Kovacs, the former chief executive of NutraSweet Kelco and now a food industry consultant. More than 80 percent of ascorbic acid, better known as vitamin C and also used as a preservative, comes from China, Mr. Kovacs said. Chinese imports of xanthan gum, used to thicken dairy products and salad dressings, account for at least 40 percent of United States consumption.
 ''This is a problem for the whole food chain, but it was a blank spot,'' Mr. Kovacs said. ''They're doing it now, but companies weren't testing these additives before.''
 Although Kellogg and General Mills disclosed these additional steps, they were reticent to provide additional details. And many food makers are nervous to discuss what is emerging as an issue that could threaten the trust of shoppers in long-established brands.
 A spokesman for Sara Lee said executives were unavailable for comment, while J. M. Smucker did not return calls.
 Not every company is altering its approach. In a statement, the agricultural giant Cargill said, ''Our practices, which include fully vetting suppliers and conducting supplier audits, have not changed.''
 Like many observers, Mr. Brown draws parallels between China today and the world described by Upton Sinclair in ''The Jungle'' a century ago. That depiction of the meatpacking industry led to the creation of the F.D.A. 
 Other legislators, including Representative Rosa L. DeLauro, Democrat of Connecticut, are calling for the creation of a new federal agency to oversee all food inspections. Such an agency would replace the current system, which splits responsibility among the F.D.A., the Department of Agriculture and other agencies. 
 ''We haven't had significant changes since the time of 'The Jungle,' '' Ms. DeLauro said. ''It's time to re-examine it because this is about prevention, not waiting for someone to die.''
 Fusing fear of China's growing economic power with worries about food safety, politicians like Mr. Brown and Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, have made it clear that food safety is an issue that resonates with voters.
 ''We're saying to business, 'You better protect yourself because right now neither the Chinese government nor the American government is doing a very good job of protecting you,' '' Mr. Schumer said.
 But consumers are not sure whom to trust.
 ''If you buy Cheerios, it's a brand name, but you turn the box over, it doesn't give you the list of where the ingredients are made from,'' said Michael O'Brien, 59, as he shopped at a Food Emporium in Union Square in New York, referring to the General Mills cereal. ''It absolutely concerns me because you never truly know the origin of your product.''
 For the companies, the problem is two-fold: figuring out exactly what to test for and maintaining control over their network of suppliers, even as they turn to China for vast quantities of imports at lower prices.
 Indeed, the discovery of the industrial chemical melamine in pet food earlier this year -- and the likely death of thousands of animals as a result -- alerted the food industry to potential dangers in the human food supply. 
 ''What I'm seeing is that companies have recognized the importance of checking their suppliers,'' said Dr. David Acheson, assistant commissioner for food protection at the F.D.A. 
 While the food industry has been in the spotlight lately, other sectors are also changing their approach to imports. Even before the toymaker RC2 Corporation recalled its popular Thomas & Friends trains because of high levels of lead, which can be poisonous if ingested, Toys ''R'' Us revamped its internal controls over procurement and product safety.
 Late last year, Toys ''R'' Us hired Rick Ruppert from the clothing retailer The Limited as executive vice president for product development and global sourcing, a new position. Mr. Ruppert said the company has increased spending on safety and product development by about 25 percent in the last six months.
 Toys ''R'' Us is also following the actions of its competitors more closely. After Target recalled about 200,000 Kool Toyz action figures because of sharp edges and lead contamination in November, Toys ''R'' Us discovered that the same Chinese company that manufactured those toys also made the Elite Operations figures in its stores. About 80 percent of the toys sold in the United States are made in China.
 An outside testing company was called in to analyze the toys, and they were subsequently pulled from Toys ''R'' Us shelves when the tests confirmed similar problems. Toys ''R'' Us has also stopped doing business with the supplier, Toy Century Industrial Ltd. of Hong Kong.
 More recently, after the Thomas recall last month, Toys ''R'' Us went back and had its own Imaginarium train line tested by an outside company. The toys proved to be safe.
 ''In the past we would have just reviewed prior test results,'' Mr. Ruppert said. This time, ''we just decided to take the next step: real-time, real-life review by an outside company.'' 
 While the recent problems have raised concerns, it is still too early to know how widespread they are. But food industry officials sharply disagree with lawmakers like Mr. Brown and Ms. DeLauro, who warn of a looming crisis.
 ''The U.S. food industry has a tremendous track record,'' said Pat Verduin, the chief science officer of the Grocery Manufacturers Association, which represents food makers. ''We are learning what to test. I'm not so sure we would have tested for melamine in a wheat product two years ago.''

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Apples to Apples" China's share of United States imports of apple juice, which is used as a sweetener in many food products, has grown to more than 50 percent, from about 1 percent in 1995-96. (Source: Department of Agriculture) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); PRODUCT SAFETY (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); FOOD RECALLS (77%); PRODUCT RECALLS (77%); FOOD SAFETY (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); RETAILERS (76%); ANIMAL FOODS (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (76%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (76%); INSPECTIONS (76%); PET FOODS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%)

COMPANY: KELLOGG CO (92%); GENERAL MILLS INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%)

TICKER: K (NYSE) (92%); GIS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (92%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (92%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (92%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (90%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (90%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (90%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (90%)

PERSON: SHERROD BROWN (58%); MIKE JOHANNS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2007



3 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Congressional Leaders Skeptical of South Korea Trade Deal

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, June 30 

 BODY:
The United States and South Korea on Saturday signed the largest free trade deal for Washington since the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1992, though Democratic leaders in Congress warned that they would not approve it.
 The United States trade representative, Susan C. Schwab, and South Korea's trade minister, Kim Hyun-chong, signed the deal only hours before President Bush's ''fast-track'' authority to negotiate such an agreement -- one that Congress must approve or reject but cannot revise -- was to expire Saturday. 
 If approved by the legislatures of both countries, the agreement could expand trade between the countries, already worth about $79 billion a year, as much as $20 billion, according to recent estimates by United States and South Korean economists. 
 The deal, known as the Korean Free Trade Agreement, calls for eliminating tariffs on 95 percent of consumer and industrial products on both sides within three years. It would also help South Korea's export-driven economy fight increasing pressure from a high-tech Japan and a low-cost China. And it would give American companies an important foothold in the thriving Northeast Asian economy, where they have steadily ceded market share to Chinese, European and Japanese competitors. 
 ''America's economic future depends heavily on more free trade agreements like the one we are signing today with Korea,'' Ms. Schwab said at a signing ceremony in Washington. 
 But the deal faced opposition from South Korean farmers, who were afraid of losing heavy import protection, and politicians, who were afraid of angering them ahead of elections in December and April. Thousands of farmers and workers took to the streets in Seoul on Friday to protest the agreement, though the government promised billions of dollars a year to aid farms, fisheries and other industries that are expected to be hurt by American imports.
 In Washington, lawmakers contended that the trade agreement failed to remove nontariff barriers that they said confined American automobile exports to South Korea to 5,000 cars last year while South Korea exported over 700,000 cars to the United States.
 A joint statement by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other House Democratic leaders said: ''Unfortunately, the K.F.T.A. as currently negotiated is a missed opportunity.'' It added, ''We cannot support the K.F.T.A. as currently negotiated.'' 
 United States lawmakers also threatened to kill the deal if South Korea does not fully open its beef market. South Korea, once the third-largest market for American beef, tightened import restrictions after the discovery of mad cow disease in the United States in 2003. 
 The trade deal is ''not perfect,'' but it ''provides a broad scope of opportunities to most of America's manufacture,'' John Engler, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, said in a statement. He added that the pact ''will help U.S. manufacturing as we wrestle with how to deal with our trade position in Asia.''
 While Korea is a $300 billion import market, United States exporters have only 11 percent of that, Mr. Engler said. The deal, among other things, is expected to expand opportunities for American banks, insurance companies, movie and telecommunications companies and farmers, while South Korean car makers and textile firms expect to increase their exports. 
 The pact was the last one signed under Mr. Bush's trade promotion authority. Both Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Ms. Schwab had urged Congress to renew Mr. Bush's special power, saying it was essential for United States trade negotiators amid a global race to strike bilateral trade deals. 
 But Democrats, who control Congress, rebutted the appeal. They said they would rather focus on more pressing issues, like addressing the growing trade imbalance with China and extending relief to American workers displaced by the agreement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (96%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (87%); BEEF (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); POLITICS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); APPROVALS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); IMPORT CONTROLS (64%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (60%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2007



4 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Making History

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Walter Kirn's review of my book ''A Young People's History of the United States'' (June 17) attributes to me the belief that ''telling the truth is not Job 1 for historians.'' The reviewer seems to hold to the l9th-century von Ranke idea that there is one truth to be told. Most historians, and most intelligent people, including bright 12-year-olds, understand that there is no such thing as a single ''objective'' truth, but that there are different truths according to the viewpoint of the historian. Kirn is intent on giving a sinister ring to what is common sense. 
 Kirn is irritated because his ''truth'' is not mine. His truths -- built around veneration of the ''great men'' of the past: the political leaders, the enterprising industrialists -- add up to exactly the simplistic history fed to young people over the generations, which my book tries to replace. His kind of history produces a submissive population, always looking for saviors on high. I prefer that readers of history, including the young, learn that we cannot depend on established authority to keep us out of war and to create economic justice, but rather that solving these problems depends on us, the citizenry, and on the great social movements we have created.
 My history, therefore, describes the inspiring struggle of those who have fought slavery and racism (Frederick Douglass, William Lloyd Garrison, Fannie Lou Hamer, Bob Moses), of the labor organizers who have led strikes for the rights of working people (Big Bill Haywood, Mother Jones, Cesar ChAvez), of the socialists and others who have protested war and militarism (Eugene Debs, Helen Keller, the Rev. Daniel Berrigan, Cindy Sheehan). My hero is not Theodore Roosevelt, who loved war and congratulated a general after a massacre of Filipino villagers at the turn of the century, but Mark Twain, who denounced the massacre and satirized imperialism.
 Kirn is annoyed at my refusal to go along with the orthodox romanticization of Lincoln. I suspect he has not read the chapter on Lincoln in Richard Hofstadter's classic, ''The American Political Tradition,'' in which Hofstadter brilliantly punctures what he calls the ''Lincoln legend.''
 Kirn says: ''Writing about abolitionism, Zinn leaves the impression that freeing the slaves was not enough.'' It seems he does not know of the work of W. E. B. Du Bois and Eric Foner, who document the betrayal of the freed slave after the Civil War. 
 I want young people to understand that ours is a beautiful country, but it has been taken over by men who have no respect for human rights or constitutional liberties. Our people are basically decent and caring, and our highest ideals are expressed in the Declaration of Independence, which says that all of us have an equal right to ''life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.'' The history of our country, I point out in my book, is a striving, against corporate robber barons and war makers, to make those ideals a reality -- and all of us, of whatever age, can find immense satisfaction in becoming part of that. 
 Howard Zinn
 Auburndale, Mass.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (86%); CIVIL WAR (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (69%); RACE & RACISM (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007



5 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1959 words

HEADLINE: The Least Among Us

BYLINE: By NIALL FERGUSON. 
Niall Ferguson is the Laurence A. Tisch professor of history at Harvard University and the author of ''Empire: The Rise and Fall of the British World Order and the Lessons for Global Power.''

 BODY:
It is perhaps a sign of how far sub-Saharan Africa still has to go that the most vigorous -- and certainly the best publicized -- debate about its economic future in recent years has been between two American economists based in New York. On one side of the argument is Jeffrey D. Sachs, the director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University and the author of ''The End of Poverty.'' On the other is William Easterly of New York University, whose ironically titled ''White Man's Burden'' lampoons Sachs as a modern version of a 19th-century utopian.
 There is indeed something faintly Victorian about Sachs's messianic yet parsimonious conviction that Africa can be saved with $75 billion a year in Western aid. Having spent so much of his energies in the 1990s extolling the virtues of the free market to any Eastern European government that would listen, Sachs now argues -- with equally unshakable conviction -- that the elimination of African poverty can be achieved through state planning. All governments need do is improve agricultural technology, provide antimalaria bed nets, treat diseases like hookworm and distribute antiretroviral treatments to the H.I.V.-infected. 
 At times, he is rather reminiscent of Dickens's Mrs. Jellyby in ''Bleak House,'' ''a lady of very remarkable strength of character, who ... has devoted herself to an extensive variety of public subjects, at various times, and is at present (until something else attracts her) devoted to the subject of Africa; with a view to the general cultivation of the coffee berry -- and the natives.'' In Easterly's opinion, the present generation of white philanthropists is no more likely than earlier ones to succeed in a self-appointed (and at times unwittingly imperial) mission of enlightening the Dark Continent. 
 Now comes another white man, ready to shoulder the burden of saving Africa: Paul Collier, the director of the Center for the Study of African Economies at Oxford University. A former World Bank economist like Easterly, Collier shares his onetime colleague's aversion to what he calls the ''headless heart'' syndrome -- meaning the tendency of people in rich countries to approach Africa's problems with more emotion than empirical evidence. It was Collier who pointed out that nearly two-fifths of Africa's private wealth is held abroad, much of it in Swiss bank accounts. It was he who exposed the British charity Christian Aid for commissioning dubious Marxist research on free trade. And it was he who pioneered a new and unsentimental approach to the study of civil wars, demonstrating that most rebels in sub-Saharan Africa are not heroic freedom fighters but self-interested brigands.
 Collier is certainly much closer to Easterly on the question of aid. (He cites a recent survey that tracked money released by the Chad Ministry of Finance to help rural health clinics. Less than 1 percent reached the clinics.) Yet ''The Bottom Billion'' proves to be a far more constructive work than ''The White Man's Burden.'' Like Sachs, Collier believes rich countries really can do something for Africa. But it involves more -- much more -- than handouts. 
 Collier's title refers to the 980 million people living in what he calls ''trapped countries,'' those that are ''clearly heading toward what might be described as a black hole.'' Not all these people are Africans. Some live in Bolivia, Myanmar, Cambodia, Haiti, Laos, North Korea and Yemen. But 70 percent of the bottom billion live in Africa, and there is good reason to expect that proportion to rise.
 The notion of the bottom billion matters because most of today's development strategies (for example, the United Nations' Millennium Development Goals) focus much less discriminatingly on all developing economies -- what used to be called ''the third world.'' But the world is no longer (as it used to be) one-sixth rich and five-sixths poor. Thanks to explosive growth in Asia, it will soon be more like one-sixth rich, two-thirds O.K. and one-sixth poor. It is this last group, according to Collier, that we need to worry about. Average life expectancy for the bottom billion is just 50 years. Around one in seven children dies before the age of 5. 
 Collier's is a better book than either Sachs's or Easterly's for two reasons. First, its analysis of the causes of poverty is more convincing. Second, its remedies are more plausible. 
 There are, he suggests, four traps into which really poor countries tend to fall. The first is civil war. Nearly three-quarters of the people in the bottom billion, Collier points out, have recently been through, or are still in the midst of, a civil war. Such wars usually drag on for years and have economically disastrous consequences. Congo (formerly Zaire, formerly the Belgian Congo) would need 50 years of peace at its present growth rate to get back to the income level it had in 1960. Unfortunately, there is a vicious circle, because the poorer a country becomes, the more likely it is to succumb to civil war (''halve the ... income of the country and you double the risk of civil war'' is a characteristic Collier formulation). And once you've had one civil war, you're likely to have more: ''Half of all civil wars are postconflict relapses.''
 Why, aside from their poverty, have so many sub-Saharan countries become mired in internal conflict? Collier has spent years trying to answer this question, and his conclusions are central to this book. Civil war, it turns out, has nothing much to do with the legacy of colonialism, or income inequality, or the political repression of minorities. Three things turn out to increase the risk of conflict: a relatively high proportion of young, uneducated men; an imbalance between ethnic groups, with one tending to outnumber the rest; and a supply of natural resources like diamonds or oil, which simultaneously encourages and helps to finance rebellion.
 It was in fact Collier who first came up with the line ''diamonds are a guerrilla's best friend,'' and a substantial part of this book concerns itself with what economists like to call the ''resource curse,'' his No. 2 trap. As he sees it, the real problem about being a poor country with mineral wealth, like Nigeria, is that ''resource rents make democracy malfunction''; they give rise to ''a new law of the jungle of electoral competition ... the survival of the fattest.'' Resource-rich countries don't need to levy taxes, so there is little pressure for government accountability, and hence fewer checks and balances. 
 Countries don't get to choose their resource endowment, of course; nor do they get to choose their location. Trap No. 3 is that landlocked countries are economically handicapped, because they are dependent on their neighbors' transportation systems if they want to trade. Yet this is a minor handicap compared with Trap No. 4: bad governance. Collier has no time for those who still seek to blame Africa's problems on European imperialists. As he puts it bluntly: ''President Robert Mugabe must take responsibility for the economic collapse in Zimbabwe since 1998, culminating in inflation of over 1,000 percent a year.'' 
 If these four things are the main causes of extreme poverty in Africa and elsewhere, what can the rich countries do? Clearly we can't relocate Chad or rid Nigeria of its oil fields. Nor, Collier argues, can we rely on our standard remedies of aid or trade, without significant modifications. As a general rule, aid tends to retard the growth of the labor-intensive export industries that are a poor country's most effective engine of growth. And much aid gets diverted into military spending. As for emergency relief, all too often it arrives in the wrong quantity at the wrong time, flooding into postconflict zones when no adequate channels exist to allocate it. 
 Trade, too, is not a sufficient answer. The problem is that Asia has eaten Africa's lunch when it comes to exploiting low wage costs. Once manufacturing activity started to relocate to Asia, African economies simply got left behind. Now, to stand any chance of survival, African manufacturers need some temporary protection from Asian competition. So long as rich countries retain tariffs to shelter their own manufacturers from cut-price Asian imports, they should exempt products from bottom billion countries.
 This, however, is not the most heretical of Collier's prescriptions. Reflecting on the tendency of postconflict countries to lapse back into civil war, he argues trenchantly for occasional foreign interventions in failed states. What postconflict countries need, he says, is 10 years of peace enforced by an external military force. If that means infringing national sovereignty, so be it. 
 At a time when the idea of humanitarian intervention is selling at a considerable discount, this is a vital insight. (One recent finding by Collier and his associates, not reproduced here, is that until recently, former French colonies in Africa were less likely than other comparably poor countries to experience civil war. That was because the French effectively gave informal security guarantees to postindependence governments.) Collier concedes that his argument is bound to elicit accusations of neocolonialism from the usual suspects (not least Mugabe). Yet the case he makes for more rather than less intervention in chronically misgoverned poor countries is a powerful one. It is easy to forget, amid the ruins of Operation Iraqi Freedom, that effective intervention ended Sierra Leone's civil war, while nonintervention condemned Rwanda to genocide.
 Still, it would be wrong to portray Collier as a proponent of gunboat development. In the end, he pins more hope on the growth of international law than on global policing. Perhaps the best help we can offer the bottom billion, he suggests, comes in the form of laws and charters: laws requiring Western banks to report deposits by kleptocrats, for example, or charters to regulate the exploitation of natural resources, to uphold media freedom and to prevent fiscal fraud. We may not be able to force corrupt governments to sign such conventions. But simply by creating them we give reformers in Africa some extra leverage.
 Although it stands on a foundation of painstaking quantitative research, ''The Bottom Billion'' is an elegant edifice: admirably succinct and pithily written. Few economists today can match Collier when it comes to one-liners. ''A flagrant grievance is to a rebel movement what an image is to a business.'' Calling the present trade negotiations a ''development round'' is like calling ''tomorrow's trading on eBay a 'development round.' '' And ''If Iraq is allowed to become another Somalia, with the cry 'Never intervene,' the consequences will be as bad as Rwanda.''
 If Sachs seems too saintly and Easterly too cynical, then Collier is the authentic old Africa hand: he knows the terrain and has a keen ear. They know it's garbage, one aid official told him when he queried Christian Aid's research, ''but it sells the T-shirts.'' 
 As Collier rightly says, it is time to dispense with the false dichotomies that bedevil the current debate on Africa: '' 'Globalization will fix it' versus 'They need more protection,' 'They need more money' versus 'Aid feeds corruption,' 'They need democracy' versus 'They're locked in ethnic hatreds,' 'Go back to empire' versus 'Respect their sovereignty,' 'Support their armed struggles' versus 'Prop up our allies.' '' If you've ever found yourself on one side or the other of those arguments -- and who hasn't? -- then you simply must read this book.
 THE BOTTOM BILLION Why the Poorest Countries Are Failing and What Can Be Done About It. By Paul Collier. 205 pp.Oxford University Press.$28. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A blind man in Djibouti. Seventy percent of the world's poor live in Africa. (Photograph by Alex Majoli/Magnum)
 A child soldier in Congo, 2003. Collier describes civil war as a poverty trap. (Photograph by Evelyn Hockstein/Polaris) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (79%); MALARIA (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CHARITIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); COFFEE (68%); ANTIVIRALS (66%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (65%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (65%); PHILANTHROPY (62%); CIVIL WAR (60%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); EARTH (72%) AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (93%); DJIBOUTI (78%)

TITLE: Bottom Billion, The: Why the Poorest Countries Are Failing and What Can Be Done About It (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007



6 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: Moving Beyond Kyoto

BYLINE: By AL GORE. 
Al Gore, vice president from 1993 to 2001, is the chairman of the Alliance for Climate Protection. He is the author, most recently, of ''The Assault on Reason.''

DATELINE: Nashville 

 BODY:
 WE -- the human species -- have arrived at a moment of decision. It is unprecedented and even laughable for us to imagine that we could actually make a conscious choice as a species, but that is nevertheless the challenge that is before us.
 Our home -- Earth -- is in danger. What is at risk of being destroyed is not the planet itself, but the conditions that have made it hospitable for human beings. 
 Without realizing the consequences of our actions, we have begun to put so much carbon dioxide into the thin shell of air surrounding our world that we have literally changed the heat balance between Earth and the Sun. If we don't stop doing this pretty quickly, the average temperature will increase to levels humans have never known and put an end to the favorable climate balance on which our civilization depends.
 In the last 150 years, in an accelerating frenzy, we have been removing increasing quantities of carbon from the ground -- mainly in the form of coal and oil -- and burning it in ways that dump 70 million tons of CO2 every 24 hours into the Earth's atmosphere. 
 The concentrations of CO2 -- having never risen above 300 parts per million for at least a million years -- have been driven from 280 parts per million at the beginning of the coal boom to 383 parts per million this year.
 As a direct result, many scientists are now warning that we are moving closer to several ''tipping points'' that could -- within 10 years -- make it impossible for us to avoid irretrievable damage to the planet's habitability for human civilization.
 Just in the last few months, new studies have shown that the north polar ice cap -- which helps the planet cool itself -- is melting nearly three times faster than the most pessimistic computer models predicted. Unless we take action, summer ice could be completely gone in as little as 35 years. Similarly, at the other end of the planet, near the South Pole, scientists have found new evidence of snow melting in West Antarctica across an area as large as California.
 This is not a political issue. This is a moral issue, one that affects the survival of human civilization. It is not a question of left versus right; it is a question of right versus wrong. Put simply, it is wrong to destroy the habitability of our planet and ruin the prospects of every generation that follows ours. 
 On Sept. 21, 1987, President Ronald Reagan said, ''In our obsession with antagonisms of the moment, we often forget how much unites all the members of humanity. Perhaps we need some outside, universal threat to recognize this common bond. I occasionally think how quickly our differences would vanish if we were facing an alien threat from outside this world.''
 We -- all of us -- now face a universal threat. Though it is not from outside this world, it is nevertheless cosmic in scale. 
 Consider this tale of two planets. Earth and Venus are almost exactly the same size, and have almost exactly the same amount of carbon. The difference is that most of the carbon on Earth is in the ground -- having been deposited there by various forms of life over the last 600 million years -- and most of the carbon on Venus is in the atmosphere.
 As a result, while the average temperature on Earth is a pleasant 59 degrees, the average temperature on Venus is 867 degrees. True, Venus is closer to the Sun than we are, but the fault is not in our star; Venus is three times hotter on average than Mercury, which is right next to the Sun. It's the carbon dioxide.
 This threat also requires us, in Reagan's phrase, to unite in recognition of our common bond. 
 Next Saturday, on all seven continents, the Live Earth concert will ask for the attention of humankind to begin a three-year campaign to make everyone on our planet aware of how we can solve the climate crisis in time to avoid catastrophe. Individuals must be a part of the solution. In the words of Buckminster Fuller, ''If the success or failure of this planet, and of human beings, depended on how I am and what I do, how would I be? What would I do?''
 Live Earth will offer an answer to this question by asking everyone who attends or listens to the concerts to sign a personal pledge to take specific steps to combat climate change. (More details about the pledge are available at algore.com.)
 But individual action will also have to shape and drive government action. Here Americans have a special responsibility. Throughout most of our short history, the United States and the American people have provided moral leadership for the world. Establishing the Bill of Rights, framing democracy in the Constitution, defeating fascism in World War II, toppling Communism and landing on the moon -- all were the result of American leadership. 
 Once again, Americans must come together and direct our government to take on a global challenge. American leadership is a precondition for success.
 To this end, we should demand that the United States join an international treaty within the next two years that cuts global warming pollution by 90 percent in developed countries and by more than half worldwide in time for the next generation to inherit a healthy Earth.
 This treaty would mark a new effort. I am proud of my role during the Clinton administration in negotiating the Kyoto protocol. But I believe that the protocol has been so demonized in the United States that it probably cannot be ratified here -- much in the way the Carter administration was prevented from winning ratification of an expanded strategic arms limitation treaty in 1979. Moreover, the negotiations will soon begin on a tougher climate treaty.
 Therefore, just as President Reagan renamed and modified the SALT agreement (calling it Start), after belatedly recognizing the need for it, our next president must immediately focus on quickly concluding a new and even tougher climate change pact. We should aim to complete this global treaty by the end of 2009 -- and not wait until 2012 as currently planned.
 If by the beginning of 2009, the United States already has in place a domestic regime to reduce global warming pollution, I have no doubt that when we give industry a goal and the tools and flexibility to sharply reduce carbon emissions, we can complete and ratify a new treaty quickly. It is, after all, a planetary emergency.
 A new treaty will still have differentiated commitments, of course; countries will be asked to meet different requirements based upon their historical share or contribution to the problem and their relative ability to carry the burden of change. This precedent is well established in international law, and there is no other way to do it.
 There are some who will try to pervert this precedent and use xenophobia or nativist arguments to say that every country should be held to the same standard. But should countries with one-fifth our gross domestic product -- countries that contributed almost nothing in the past to the creation of this crisis -- really carry the same load as the United States? Are we so scared of this challenge that we cannot lead?
 Our children have a right to hold us to a higher standard when their future -- indeed, the future of all human civilization -- is hanging in the balance. They deserve better than a government that censors the best scientific evidence and harasses honest scientists who try to warn us aboutlooming catastrophe. They deserve better than politicians who sit on their hands and do nothing to confront the greatest challenge that humankind has ever faced -- even as the danger bears down on us. 
 We should focus instead on the opportunities that are part of this challenge. Certainly, there will be new jobs and new profits as corporations move aggressively to capture the enormous economic opportunities offered by a clean energy future. 
 But there's something even more precious to be gained if we do the right thing. The climate crisis offers us the chance to experience what few generations in history have had the privilege of experiencing: a generational mission; a compelling moral purpose; a shared cause; and the thrill of being forced by circumstances to put aside the pettiness and conflict of politics and to embrace a genuine moral and spiritual challenge. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (76%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (60%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%) ANTARCTICA (73%); UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007



7 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PREOCCUPATIONS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: The Work Ethic, In a Modern Guise

BYLINE: By JOANNE B. CIULLA. 
Joanne B. Ciulla is professor of leadership and ethics at the University of Richmond and author of ''The Working Life: The Promise and Betrayal of Modern Work.''

 BODY:
AFTER the last of the college graduates hug teary parents and toss their tasseled caps into the air, universities pass their charges on to employers, who then face the challenge of transforming students into employees. 
 I often wonder how some of my students will fare in the world of work. After 32 years of teaching, I still delight in hearing that a former student who made careless mistakes on exams and could not turn anything in on time has become exceptionally good at his or her job. Each cohort of college students comes with annoying and admirable attitudes that present challenges and opportunities for their first full-time employers. 
 You know you are getting old when you find yourself complaining about the way young people work. Every generation does this, so it is doubtful that there ever was a golden age of work when people of all ages shared the same attitudes. 
 The Protestant work ethic said that people should work hard and do the best job possible, regardless of the reward. Martin Luther told us, ''All men, whatever their calling, ought to seek perfection in their work.'' Luther believed that doing quality work helped make you a better person. The traditional work ethic has always been a tall order, especially for those who are more interested in earning enough money to eat than in attaining perfection. 
 For young adults who have grown up in a society that celebrates consumerism and status, the old work ethic seems hopelessly old-fashioned. Even in college, students seem to value the external rewards of work over learning for its own sake. 
 A 2006 survey of college freshman at the University of California, Los Angeles, found that about 74 percent of men and 70 percent of women say that the primary reason they attend college is to make more money. Students reflect this attitude in they way they approach their schoolwork. Most college professors have probably observed at least one of these traits in today's students:
 ENTITLED TO A DO-OVER It has become common for students to ask to retake tests or to rewrite papers in order to get a better grade. Usually the students who make this request are not failing the course but want to push their grade to an A- from a B+.
 While the apparent desire for self-improvement is admirable, usually the higher grade is what really matters. Sometimes a student's second try is not much better than the first, but he or she still expects a better grade for the effort. This attitude leads to the second problem. 
 CLOCK PUNCHING Students tend to take an industrial view of work. They commonly contest a grade by saying they deserve a higher one because they put so much time into studying or writing a paper. Such students see grades as pay for the time spent on the job, not the quality of the product. 
 THE LAKE EFFECT Like the children in Garrison Keillor's fictitious town of Lake Wobegon, many college students believe that they are above average. This is not entirely their fault, as grade inflation runs rampant in many universities. When professors inflate grades, they give students a misleading picture of how their work stacks up against others, and they deprive students of the feedback they need to improve.
 These three qualities have positive and negative implications for employers. This year, they plan to hire 17.4 percent more entry-level employees than last year. Recruiting and retaining the best of these graduates will be a challenge.
 In response, some employers are trying to Google-ize the workplace. Google lures talented college graduates by creating a perk-filled work environment that looks and feels like a college campus. By getting rid of restrictions like structured office spaces, time clocks and dress codes, a Google-ized workplace eases the transition from college to work. 
 Even so, workers at a company like Google are in a highly competitive environment. Managers probably limit the number of do-overs. The quality of the work is as important as the quantity, if not more so. And some people are clearly better at their jobs than others. Recent graduates soon discover that a high grade-point average may help land them a good job, but it won't help them keep it.
 Most companies cannot Google-ize their offices because their business takes place at a certain time, in a certain place, and the culture has no tolerance for flip-flops and Frisbees. Young people have to adjust to the constraints of work.
 FOR these employers, there is some good news. First, young people are willing to work long hours -- if it pays off. Second, the Googles of the world face the same challenges as everyone else: how to instill in young people the desire and skill to do a job well. This aspect of the old work ethic doesn't benefit just the employer. Teaching young employees how to find personal gratification in a job well done may also help them become better people and live happier lives.
 I admire many things about my students -- their idealism, creativity, energy, technological competence, hard work and dizzying sociability -- but working with them can be trying.
 For those times, I offer a bit of advice to today's baby-boomer managers. When you are frustrated with a young employee, imagine the pictures of students in your college yearbook and ask yourself this question: Do these people look like they could someday run the world? 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Phil Marden) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); ETHICS (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); MEN (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); WOMEN (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007



8 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; RE:FRAMING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1498 words

HEADLINE: A Challenge to Gene Theory, a Tougher Look at Biotech

BYLINE: By DENISE CARUSO. 
Denise Caruso is executive director of the Hybrid Vigor Institute, which studies collaborative problem-solving. E-mail: dcaruso@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE $73.5 billion global biotech business may soon have to grapple with a discovery that calls into question the scientific principles on which it was founded.
 Last month, a consortium of scientists published findings that challenge the traditional view of how genes function. The exhaustive four-year effort was organized by the United States National Human Genome Research Institute and carried out by 35 groups from 80 organizations around the world. To their surprise, researchers found that the human genome might not be a ''tidy collection of independent genes'' after all, with each sequence of DNA linked to a single function, such as a predisposition to diabetes or heart disease.
 Instead, genes appear to operate in a complex network, and interact and overlap with one another and with other components in ways not yet fully understood. According to the institute, these findings will challenge scientists ''to rethink some long-held views about what genes are and what they do.'' 
 Biologists have recorded these network effects for many years in other organisms. But in the world of science, discoveries often do not become part of mainstream thought until they are linked to humans. 
 With that link now in place, the report is likely to have repercussions far beyond the laboratory. The presumption that genes operate independently has been institutionalized since 1976, when the first biotech company was founded. In fact, it is the economic and regulatory foundation on which the entire biotechnology industry is built. 
 Innovation begets risk, almost by definition. When something is truly new, only so much can be predicted about how it will play out. Proponents of a discovery often see and believe only in the benefits it will deliver. But when it comes to innovations in food and medicine, belief can be dangerous. Often, new information is discovered that invalidates the principles -- thus the claims of benefit and, sometimes, safety -- on which proponents have built their products. 
 For example, antibiotics were once considered miracle drugs that, for the first time in history, greatly reduced the probability that people would die from common bacterial infections. But doctors did not yet know that the genetic material responsible for conferring antibiotic resistance moves easily between different species of bacteria. Overprescribing antibiotics for virtually every ailment has given rise to ''superbugs'' that are now virtually unkillable.
 The principle that gave rise to the biotech industry promised benefits that were equally compelling. Known as the Central Dogma of molecular biology, it stated that each gene in living organisms, from humans to bacteria, carries the information needed to construct one protein.
 Proteins are the cogs and the motors that drive the function of cells and, ultimately, organisms. In the 1960s, scientists discovered that a gene that produces one type of protein in one organism would produce a remarkably similar protein in another. The similarity between the insulin produced by humans and by pigs is what once made pig insulin a life-saving treatment for diabetics.
 The scientists who invented recombinant DNA in 1973 built their innovation on this mechanistic, ''one gene, one protein'' principle. 
 Because donor genes could be associated with specific functions, with discrete properties and clear boundaries, scientists then believed that a gene from any organism could fit neatly and predictably into a larger design -- one that products and companies could be built around, and that could be protected by intellectual-property laws. 
 This presumption, now disputed, is what one molecular biologist calls ''the industrial gene.''
 ''The industrial gene is one that can be defined, owned, tracked, proven acceptably safe, proven to have uniform effect, sold and recalled,'' said Jack Heinemann, a professor of molecular biology in the School of Biological Sciences at the University of Canterbury in New Zealand and director of its Center for Integrated Research in Biosafety. 
 In the United States, the Patent and Trademark Office allows genes to be patented on the basis of this uniform effect or function. In fact, it defines a gene in these terms, as an ordered sequence of DNA ''that encodes a specific functional product.'' 
 In 2005, a study showed that more than 4,000 human genes had already been patented in the United States alone. And this is but a small fraction of the total number of patented plant, animal and microbial genes. 
 In the context of the consortium's findings, this definition now raises some fundamental questions about the defensibility of those patents.
 If genes are only one component of how a genome functions, for example, will infringement claims be subject to dispute when another crucial component of the network is claimed by someone else? Might owners of gene patents also find themselves liable for unintended collateral damage caused by the network effects of the genes they own? 
 And, just as important, will these not-yet-understood components of gene function tarnish the appeal of the market for biotech investors, who prefer their intellectual property claims to be unambiguous and indisputable? 
 While no one has yet challenged the legal basis for gene patents, the biotech industry itself has long since acknowledged the science behind the question. 
 ''The genome is enormously complex, and the only thing we can say about it with certainty is how much more we have left to learn,'' wrote Barbara A. Caulfield, executive vice president and general counsel at the biotech pioneer Affymetrix, in a 2002 article on Law.com called ''Why We Hate Gene Patents.'' 
 ''We're learning that many diseases are caused not by the action of single genes, but by the interplay among multiple genes,'' Ms. Caulfield said. She noted that just before she wrote her article, ''scientists announced that they had decoded the genetic structures of one of the most virulent forms of malaria and that it may involve interactions among as many as 500 genes.'' 
 Even more important than patent laws are safety issues raised by the consortium's findings. Evidence of a networked genome shatters the scientific basis for virtually every official risk assessment of today's commercial biotech products, from genetically engineered crops to pharmaceuticals. 
 ''The real worry for us has always been that the commercial agenda for biotech may be premature, based on what we have long known was an incomplete understanding of genetics,'' said Professor Heinemann, who writes and teaches extensively on biosafety issues.
 ''Because gene patents and the genetic engineering process itself are both defined in terms of genes acting independently,'' he said, ''regulators may be unaware of the potential impacts arising from these network effects.''
 Yet to date, every attempt to challenge safety claims for biotech products has been categorically dismissed, or derided as unscientific. A 2004 round table on the safety of biotech food, sponsored by the Pew Initiative on Food and Biotechnology, provided a typical example: 
 ''Both theory and experience confirm the extraordinary predictability and safety of gene-splicing technology and its products,'' said Dr. Henry I. Miller, a fellow at the Hoover Institution who represented the pro-biotech position. Dr. Miller was the founding director of the Office of Biotechnology at the Food and Drug Administration, and presided over the approval of the first biotech food in 1992.
 Now that the consortium's findings have cast the validity of that theory into question, it may be time for the biotech industry to re-examine the more subtle effects of its products, and to share what it knows about them with regulators and other scientists.
 This is not the first time it has been asked to do so. A 2004 editorial in the journal Nature Genetics beseeched academic and corporate researchers to start releasing their proprietary data to reviewers, so it might receive the kind of scrutiny required of credible science.
 ACCORDING to Professor Heinemann, many biotech companies already conduct detailed genetic studies of their products that profile the expression of proteins and other elements. But they are not required to report most of this data to regulators, so they do not. Thus vast stores of important research information sit idle.
 ''Something that is front and center in the biosafety community in New Zealand now is whether companies should be required to submit their gene-profiling data for hazard identification,'' Professor Heinemann said. With no such reporting requirements, companies and regulators alike will continue to ''blind themselves to network effects,'' he said.
 The Nature Genetics editorial, titled ''Good Citizenship, or Good Business?,'' presented its argument as a choice for the industry to make. Given the significance of these new findings, it is a distinction without a difference. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christopher Vorlet) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (92%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); BACTERIA (89%); ANTIBIOTICS (89%); DNA (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); MAMMALS (78%); GENOMICS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); DIABETES (74%); BIOCHEMISTRY (72%); HEART DISEASE (69%); ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007



9 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: The Big Thought Is Missing in National Security

BYLINE: By G. PASCAL ZACHARY. 
G. Pascal Zachary teaches journalism at Stanford and writes about technology and economic development. E-mail: gzach@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHY has the pace of fundamental innovation in military technologies slowed? Why, six years after 9/11, is there no mega-research project -- along the lines of the crash Manhattan Project that 62 years ago produced the first atomic bombs -- to address the plausible security threats to the United States in the 21st century?
 These two questions say a lot about how innovation happens today, and why concerns about national security, which once motivated civilian scientists and engineers to make crucial contributions to military technologies, may again shape innovation priorities. 
 The short answer to both questions is that the nation lacks a grand technological challenge that might galvanize the interests and energies of talented researchers and propel them into close cooperation with war-fighters in pursuit of innovations that will enhance national security. 
 Time and again in recent American history, civilians have played a crucial role in military technology.
 During World War II, tens of thousands of researchers worked on a myriad of projects of which the atomic bomb was only the best known and most dramatic. In 1958, after the Soviet Union launched the third in its series of Sputnik rockets, President Dwight D. Eisenhower rallied American scientists and engineers again, forming both NASA and an advanced research agency, both under the Pentagon. The post-Sputnik sense of urgency powered American innovation for decades, igniting the growth of the country's infant semiconductor and computer industries and laying the foundational technologies for the Internet.
 In the 1970s, many scientists and engineers, disenchanted with the Vietnam War, turned away from military problems. And in 1991, the breakup of the Soviet Union took away the mirror-image rival that American innovators could ''race'' against.
 Today the leading technologies are hatched by commercial companies pursuing lucrative and large civilian markets. ''The U.S. government and its defense partners no longer are at the leading edge of most of the militarily-relevant technologies, having been displaced by international commercial industries and markets,'' the Defense Science Board, an adviser to the Pentagon comprised of independent experts, concluded in a February report to the top brass entitled ''21st Century Strategic Technology Vectors.'' 
 How did the military, which spends a great deal of money on research and development, get into the position of having to play catch-up in technological innovation?
 There is no single explanation. One factor is the spread-too-thin syndrome. Instead of ruthlessly prioritizing, or ''putting all your wood behind one arrow,'' as Scott McNealy, the C.E.O. of Sun Microsystems, likes to say, the Pentagon finances a myriad of smaller, incremental and ultimately cautious R & D projects that, while perhaps covering the innovation horizon, don't add up to a great leap forward.
 Another factor is the Iraq war. Urgent battlefield problems, such as how to neutralize roadside bombs, understandably consume the ''mind share'' of military researchers, reducing time spent on longer-term questions. 
 The multiplicity of current security threats is another barrier. ''There is no single threat you can identity and rally people around,'' says Bran Ferren, co-chairman of Applied Minds, a product designer in Glendale, Calif., that works on classified projects. ''I don't think there is a conspiracy'' to prevent civilian technologists and the military from working closely together, Mr. Ferren adds. ''It isn't apathy, either. It is just a difficult coupling.'' 
 That's partly because the American military is slower-moving and more conservative than, say, Google, Intel, Apple or other Silicon Valley pacesetters.
 The government's choice of new weapons technologies, meanwhile, is sometimes influenced by political considerations, such as the Congressional districts of the contractors, or by how much money has been spent on competing systems that, while less effective technically, have more jobs and corporate profits riding on their selection. Finally, the government can insist on owning the ''intellectual property'' embedded in a device, a deal that scares off even patriotic innovators. 
 ''The process is ensuring the best minds aren't working on military technologies,'' says Warren Citrin, a radar expert who spent 18 years at the Applied Physics Lab at Johns Hopkins University and from 2003 to 2005 was an executive at Raytheon, a large military contractor. 
 Leadership is another missing ingredient. ''The government isn't going to researchers and saying, 'Drop everything, work on terrorism.' Instead, the government is telling them, 'Proceed as before,' '' says Daniel S. Greenberg, who has monitored military research in Washington since the 1960s and is the author of the forthcoming ''Science for Sale.'' 
 Certainly, there is wisdom in the government not interfering too much in the commercial activities of America's leading technology innovators. And there is always the possibility that people in the Pentagon are engaged in a huge disinformation campaign aimed at lulling America's enemies into a false sense of security. Perhaps there is a crash program and that -- shades of the old ''X-Files'' television series -- the government just isn't talking about it. 
 ''We cannot assume that the government did not galvanize the R & D community after 9/11,'' says Terry C. Pierce, professor at the Naval Postgraduate School and an expert on military innovation. ''There may be ongoing top-secret projects'' of the world-changing sort.
 More likely, however, the government's secret projects are modest. At a recent conference on military problems, Mr. Pierce bemoaned a lack of a coordinated effort by the military to advance and integrate a highly diverse set of technologies that would together realize what the Defense Science Board and other experts consider one of the highest national security aims: the need for ''birth to death'' tracking and identification of critical targets, whether they are people or things, anywhere in the world. 
 The task is large and requires combining advances in sensors and satellites, data collection and analysis, pilotless attack planes and futuristic ''directed energy'' weapons. Huge breakthroughs are needed, such as batteries with at least 10 times the current life, and automatic translation systems that can turn foreign languages into English as people speak. 
 Similar advances are required to turn soldiers into data collectors so effective that audio, visual and data records of battles can be replayed, TiVo-like, helping soldiers improve tactics and thwart enemies.
 For great leaps forward in military technology, the commercial market alone provides no answers. Instead, the gulf between civilian researchers and war-fighters -- a gulf decades in the making that is addressed only haphazardly today -- must be bridged. And the best way to do so is for both sides to agree on a grand national security challenge.
 In short, America needs a mega-project that brings together a Silicon Valley all-star team and the nation's savviest soldiers. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1958 with Hugh L. Dryden, left, and T. Keith Glenan, right, of the newly created NASA. (Photograph by NASA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); HISTORY (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%)

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007



10 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Business; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Study Makes It Official: Arts Help Local Economy

BYLINE: By IRIS HISKEY ARNO

DATELINE: White Plains 

 BODY:
THE arts mean business in Westchester County, according to a new report released by the arts advocacy group Americans for the Arts.
And Westchester is in the business of supporting the arts.
 On Wednesday, the Westchester Arts Council announced that it had chosen 39 local arts organizations to receive almost $1 million in grants. Among the recipients were cultural destinations, including the Caramoor Center for Music and the Arts and the Jacob Burns Film Center; music series like Jazz Forum Arts and the Summit Music Festival; educational programs like the Hoff-Barthelson Music School and Youth Theater Interactions; and performing groups, including the Westchester Philharmonic, the Chappaqua Orchestra, the Taconic Opera and the Hudson Stage Company.
 ''We've seen a dramatic increase in business since we've paid more attention to the arts,'' said Sal Carrera, the economic adviser to the county executive, Andrew J. Spano. ''The more you pump in, the better return you get.'' 
 Mr. Spano called the arts ''an area of creativity which is going to be a defining element in worldwide competition in the 21st century.'' He emphasized both its influence on quality of life in Westchester and its dollars-and-cents benefits. 
 ''When we commit tax dollars to the arts, we can say to the public that it's a real value, an investment for getting other revenues into the county,'' he said.
 ''Arts and Economic Prosperity III,'' a national study conducted by Americans for the Arts, concludes that the nonprofit arts and culture sector is a significant industry in Westchester County, generating almost $120 million in local economic activity in 2005, more than double the revenues of a decade ago. The arts also support nearly 4,000 full-time jobs, an increase of 85 percent over the same period. Local and state governments collected some $17.6 million in tax revenues in 2005. 
 The study also concluded that Westchester arts patrons spend an average of almost $25, in addition to the price of admission, every time they attend a nonprofit cultural event in the county. Nonresident audience members spend even more -- about $41 -- demonstrating the economic value of attracting cultural tourists to the area.
 Karina Ringeisen, the theater manager of the Tarrytown Music Hall, which received a $5,000 grant from the Westchester Arts Council, said the Americans for the Arts study jibed with the hall's own e-mail survey of ticket buyers.
 ''We discovered that about 90 percent of our audience comes from outside Tarrytown and 20 percent are from out of state,'' she said. ''Tarrytown has become a destination because of the music hall, and a majority of our audience members go to shops and restaurants before the shows.''
 The new Americans for the Arts study is the third it has conducted over the past decade on the economic impact of the arts in the nonprofit sector. Westchester is one of 156 communities included in the current analysis, which included more than 6,000 arts organizations across the country. The Westchester Arts Council was involved in gathering study data from 101 local groups. 
 Part of the mission of Americans for the Arts is to debunk the notion that investing in arts and culture is done at the expense of local economic development. ''The arts inspire us, soothe us, provoke us, involve us, and connect us,'' writes Robert Lynch, the organization's director and executive officer, in the introduction to ''Arts and Economic Prosperity III,'' ''but they also create jobs and contribute to the economy.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: far and wide: The Tarrytown Music Hall gets many out-of-state visitors. (Photograph by Alan Zale for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); FESTIVALS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); RESTAURANTS (60%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007



11 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: A Raise Won't End Poverty

BYLINE: By Jill Jenkins. 
Jill Jenkins is the chief economist at the Employment Policies Institute.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
HOW much do you think the average New York household with one minimum wage worker earns per year? $10,000? $15,000? $20,000?
Wrong, wrong and wrong. 
 It's $53,370 a year, according to the latest census bureau figures. True, with that kind of money, a minimum wage worker won't be buying the Knicks anytime soon. But it does put him comfortably in the middle class, with a big chunk of change between him and the poverty line.
 Here's another surprising statistic: less than 15 percent of minimum wage employees in New York are single parents supporting children. Most are teenagers looking to earn some extra cash or adults who are second or third earners in their families. 
 Unfortunately, these facts haven't kept two powerful New York state legislators from trotting out the old myth that a minimum wage increase is a much-needed helping hand for the state's poor. 
 Two Assembly members, Sheldon Silver and Susan John, are pushing for an increase in New York's minimum wage to $8.25 an hour from $7.15 an hour. Their bill, introduced last month, made it only to the Ways and Means Committee before Albany went into recess. But given the clout of its sponsors -- Mr. Silver is speaker of the Assembly and Ms. John is the chairwoman of the Labor Committee -- there's every reason to expect a vote when the Assembly is back in session. 
 Of course, you might ask, even if the vast majority of minimum wage workers aren't poor, what's wrong with giving them a boost?
 For starters, there are some big costs associated with a wage increase. Businesses need to find the money to pay for higher wages, and that often means raising their prices. Before the last minimum wage increase in the state, in 2004, Cornell University economists estimated that it would cost consumers and employers more than $880 million a year -- of that, less than a fifth was expected to go to poor families. 
 What's more, wage increases get a lot of people fired. And the majority of people being handed pink slips are the ones already teetering on the brink of poverty. 
 Think about it this way: If you're a business facing pay increases (without any corresponding jump in the skills of the people you employ), and you can't raise prices because you'll lose customers, who are the first people you'd get rid of? It's not going to be your managers or mid-level employees. It's going to be people on the bottom rungs with the least skills -- those easiest to get along without. 
 Research bears this out. Economists from University of Georgia, the University of Connecticut and Cornell University have found that increasing the minimum wage causes four times more job loss for employees without a high school diploma and African-American teenagers and young adults than it does for the general population.
 It's the same sad story for a secondary provision in Mr. Silver and Ms. John's bill: an increase in the amount businesses have to pay employees who make most of their income in tips. (Like most states, New York exempts employers from paying their employees who earn tips minimum wage and sets up a separate minimum pay level for tipped workers, with employers making up the difference should the wage plus tips be less than the state's minimum wage rate.) 
 Here's another number: $30,513. That's the average annual salary of waiters and waitresses in New York State. Again, that doesn't make them rich, but it does mean they're making more than double the poverty level for a single person. And the average wage with tips is $14.67 per hour -- well above the proposed minimum.
 Restaurants, which employ a substantial portion of the state's tipped workers, run on exceedingly thin profit margins. Indeed, recent federal estimates gauge the per-employee profit for restaurants as among the lowest for all industries. So even minor increases in their labor costs translate into substantial employment adjustments.
 And who's most likely to be dropped from a restaurant's payroll? Busboys. 
 The minimum wage is an antiquated anti-poverty tool that hurts the people it's supposed to help. Instead of raising it, legislators should expand the size and scope of the state's earned income tax credit, which provides tax-free income to poor people who work (on top of income from the federal earned income tax program). 
 Since it doesn't inflate the cost of hiring or retaining entry-level employees, the tax credit doesn't jeopardize low-skilled workers' job prospects. Moreover, the earned income tax credit is much more likely to go to the poor: 99 percent of its beneficiaries are in families with incomes below the 20th percentile.
 It's no wonder then that a recent report from the federal Congressional Budget Office shows that the earned income tax credit is one of the main reasons low-income families have seen their real incomes jump by more than a third during the last 15 years. 
 It would be good if the evidence caused Mr. Silver and Ms. John to rethink their approach. Instead of rejiggering a law that destroys jobs and doesn't have any effect on actual poverty, they should push for programs like the earned income tax credit that encourage and reward hard work -- the real ticket to the middle class.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (92%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FAMILY (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); PARENTS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); CENSUS (58%); SINGLE PARENTS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (58%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007



12 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: About to Fill Up? Check the Gas Tax

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
WHAT you pay at the gas pump depends not just on the cost of crude oil and refinery capacity, but also on where you live: Prices across the suburban region can vary by as much as a dollar per gallon on the same day.
 ''Gas price shopping is irresistible,'' said Jeannie Mandelker, a public relations executive who lives in Montrose and works in Bedford Hills but buys gas in Peekskill because it is cheaper there. ''I don't have time to shop for a 5-cent difference in price. But for 25 cents, I'll shop.'' 
 Nationally, the price of regular gasoline has fallen about 20 cents per gallon from its recent high point in the last week of May. In the region it has fallen more slowly, about 9 cents. But across the suburbs, there was a wide variation in prices last week: From the cheapest convenience stores in South Jersey to the priciest name-brand stations in Westchester and the Hamptons, the cost of regular gasoline last week ranged from $2.66 to $3.60. 
 Tax policy accounts for some of this variation: New York and Connecticut tax gasoline at rates that are among the highest in the country, while New Jersey's taxes are among the lowest, leading to pump prices that differ across state lines by more than 30 cents per gallon.
 But there are also variations that arise from other sources. Transportation costs can add a few pennies per gallon at stations far from refineries, and high property values and taxes can increase the price on some street corners.
 The interplay of supply and demand in a complex market -- where traffic volume, density and even local incomes vary widely -- plays a large part, and not just at the retail level. 
 Big oil companies use secret formulas to set different prices for retailers, a practice known as zone pricing. Service station owners say zone pricing is a result of anticompetitive speculation by wholesalers, and in Connecticut, the Legislature came close to passing a law banning the practice this year. Oil companies say it is simply a response to supply and demand.
 Ms. Mandelker lives in one of the region's most expensive pockets, whatever the cause. According to the Oil Price Information Service, which monitors daily prices at more than 80,000 of the nation's 120,000 gas stations, the sites with the highest prices in the region last week were in some of the area's richest communities -- the Hamptons, Darien, Conn., and Croton-on-Hudson and Mount Kisco in Westchester, all with prices at more than $3.40 for regular. The single highest price, $3.659, was recorded at an unbranded station in Westhampton.
 The lowest prices tended to be in communities in South Jersey, where regular gasoline at many stations was less than $2.70 a gallon. The single-lowest reported price was $2.649 at a Wawa store in Bridgeton. The highest-priced stations in New Jersey were in the wealthy areas of Morris and Somerset Counties, where some stations were charging more than $3 per gallon.
 On average, Westchester prices were the highest in the region at $3.30 for regular, about 5 cents higher than in Fairfield, Conn., 10 cents higher than in Nassau County, and 37 cents higher than in Somerset, which had the highest average price of any New Jersey county at $2.93.
 Over all, prices in the region are fairly stable compared with other parts of the country because shortages from refineries in this area can be quickly remedied by barge shipments of refined oil from Europe, said Fred Rozell, director of retail pricing for the Oil Price Information Service.
 But prices tend to be higher because the suburban region is dominated by traditional ''garage-bay'' retailers, and has fewer of the no-frills chains and convenience-store retailers that have become common in other parts of the country, said Mr. Rozell.
 ''In southern Jersey, they have more independent retailers, and more aggressive independent chains, such as Hess,'' he said. The average price of gasoline in South Jersey last week was $2.76, 10 cents below the average for the northern part of the state.
 The lowest-priced chain in New Jersey was Wawa, at $2.71 on average, according to calculations based on data from the Oil Price Information Service. Mobil gas stations were charging $2.88, while Gulf and BP were charging $2.84, Sunoco and Getty were charging $2.83 and Hess was charging $2.79 on average.
 In New York and Connecticut suburbs, Sunoco, Gulf, BP and Getty stations were charging about $3.21 to $3.24 per gallon for regular on average last week. Hess and unbranded stations were charging about $3.17, and Valero stations about $3.16. 
 Price differentials are watched closely by many who travel around the region for their jobs, especially salespeople who cover large territories. Generally, they try to avoid New York and Connecticut stations, they say, as well as the stations on busy highways where demand and prices are higher. The best deals are often at intersections with stations on more than one corner, said Mr. Rozell.
 Andrew Terradista, regional sales director for Pitney Bowes Mail Services, said his corporate headquarters is in Clifton, N.J., but he lives in Albany and travels throughout the Northeast. ''I always make sure to gas up before I go back home,'' he said. ''They do charge a little more on the parkway than in a gas station, but when you're used to paying big prices in New York, hey, I'll pay the extra.''
 Drivers in New York pay more than 60 cents per gallon in state and federal taxes, the highest in the country, according to an estimate by the American Petroleum Institute. Connecticut buyers pay more than 55 cents, the fourth highest in the country, and starting today that figure will increase by about 2 cents. 
 New Jersey consumers pay 33 cents per gallon in taxes; only Alaska and Wyoming charge less.
 Gasoline tax policy is controversial, with some saying the taxes should be lower to cut taxpayers' costs, and others saying they should be higher to encourage alternatives and conservation. 
 But one thing is for sure: Gasoline taxes have lagged far behind inflation and are a smaller portion of the cost than they were in the 1980s. 
 ''Voters have been reluctant to allow tax increases, and that's been going on for well over a decade,'' said Arturo Perez, a fiscal analyst with the National Conference of State Legislatures.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PLANT CAPACITY (89%); GAS STATIONS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RETAILERS (77%); SUBURBS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); TAX LAW (71%); WHOLESALERS (68%); CONVENIENCE STORES (67%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); LEGISLATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008



13 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Art, Food, Lodging

BYLINE: By SHERILL TIPPINS. 
Sherill Tippins, the author of ''February House: The Story of W. H. Auden, Carson McCullers, Jane and Paul Bowles, Benjamin Britten and Gypsy Rose Lee Under One Roof in Wartime America,'' is writing a history of the Chelsea Hotel.

 BODY:
THE one thing an artist must have, the composer Virgil Thomson often said, is an apartment with low rent. A lenient landlord is the bottom-line essential for a creative life; a stimulating social environment helps as well. 
 Thomson himself, of course, made his home in the Chelsea Hotel, whose manager and part-owner, Stanley Bard, was unceremoniously ousted from his position last month along with his son, David. With a new management team already talking ''amenities,'' ''modernization'' and ''street-front retail program,'' the writing is on the Chelsea's proverbial wall. 
 This is hardly surprising in a borough where real estate values are soaring, where wealthy buyers increasingly crowd out the poor, middle and even upper-middle classes, and where divisions among groups widen daily. For artists, with their sporadic income and inevitable fallow periods, Manhattan's environment has grown too hostile. When rents are high and bills are due; there's no time to talk, to think or to create. 
 Conditions were similar when the Chelsea was completed 123 years ago. Gilded-Age wealth had run up the cost of housing and essentials; money determined social status more than talent, intellect or ideas. Art and ideas were imported from Europe, as the ''thin soil'' of New York's commercial culture provided little inspiration. 
 The Chelsea was built to address this problem. A French-born writer, inventor, architect and idealist, Philip Gengembre Hubert, introduced the cooperative apartment system to New York, specifically to free New Yorkers from the burden of overpriced housing and to encourage the cross-class intermingling needed to nurture a cohesive culture. 
 The process wasn't easy. Several projects failed as desperate middle-class buyers snatched up co-op apartments intended for the working class, and private developers exploited the cooperatives' shared-investment advantage for their own personal gain. 
 But the Chelsea, Hubert believed, was his greatest achievement. Neither too humble in design nor too ostentatious, it offered wide corridors, ample sunlight, communal balconies, roof gardens, dining rooms, parlors and a ballroom to facilitate social interaction, while walls three feet thick guaranteed privacy and silence for solitary work. 
 A core co-op membership of wealthy entrepreneurs and moneyed artists provided financial security, at least for the time being, while a third of the Chelsea was cut up into small suites and studios to be rented to the less well-off. Luxurious and spare apartments shared each floor, creating a uniquely democratic climate. 
 The Chelsea's location at the heart of what was then the theater district guaranteed a lively, arts-oriented, intellectually active population. Location, design and price would combine, Hubert hoped, to create the venue needed for New Yorkers to look into their own souls and discover what was there. 
 Despite more than a century of economic, social and political upheavals, the Chelsea has served its purpose -- thanks in large part to the Bard family's faithful fulfillment of the architect's original vision. A more profit-motivated management would not have considered those basic requirements of an artist's residence -- affordability, flexibility and above all an atmosphere of respect for art and its social purpose.
 A theatrical producer and Chelsea Hotel resident, Scott Griffin, sounded the alarm recently in the British newspaper The Independent when comparing the old and new versions of the Chateau Marmont in Los Angeles -- a project previously taken on by part of the new Chelsea Hotel management team. ''I know what the difference is,'' Mr. Griffin said. The Chateau Marmont ''has become much more expensive.''
 The changes threatening the Chelsea signify more than just another hotel renovation. They mark the death of a dream of urban community and artistic freedom now more than a century old. Residents have been frantically discussing the possibility of passing the hat to raise the money to buy out the Bards' partners. On ''Living With Legends,'' the Chelsea Hotel's unofficial blog, one writer wonders how many people it would take to co-own the Chelsea if each contributor put in $1,000 each or $100 or $10? Or, suggest others, foundation support and tax breaks could be used to preserve the Chelsea's character as an artist's residence, perhaps adding a visiting-artists' colony and some low-income housing. 
 ''Are you nuts?'' a reader responds. Maybe they are. But it takes a certain craziness to maintain a creative culture in a market town, and to see to it that real estate values don't trump cultural, ethical, social, historical and aesthetic values every single time. 
 We need to think more creatively about ways to keep the arts developing, and the artists thriving, in New York. It's a shame that Philip Hubert's idea can't be given landmark status along with his building. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); WRITERS (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2008



14 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Bush to Urge Putin to Aid In Efforts to Pressure Iran

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and DAVID E. SANGER. 
Thom Shanker contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: KENNEBUNKPORT, Me., June 30 

 BODY:
President Bush, seeking to change the tone of an increasingly caustic, fraught relationship with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, will urge him on Sunday to support a major escalation of pressure on Iran, administration officials said.
 On Friday, just 48 hours before Mr. Putin was to arrive at the Bush family compound on the edge of this historic seaside town swelled with summer residents, the administration discussed for the first time with Russia and other members of the United Nations Security Council a proposal to require all nations to inspect cargo to or from Iran for illicit nuclear-related material or arms. 
 The meeting took place by telephone, and the United States was represented by R. Nicholas Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs. The proposal was cast as preventive, but American officials know that, like a proposed asset freeze on some Iranian banks, the effect could be to slow Iran's economy. 
 Two successive resolutions have resulted in less punitive actions against Iran, with modest economic effect. None has achieved the goal of forcing the country to suspend its enrichment of uranium.
 While Mr. Bush is not expected to discuss the specifics of the American plan with Mr. Putin, a senior official, who would not speak for attribution because the conversations with Mr. Putin have yet to take place and will be surrounded in secrecy, said Mr. Bush was increasingly intent on stopping the Iranian nuclear program. The International Atomic Energy Agency says it is progressing.
 ''He will make the point that this is the third set of sanctions against Iran, and now we have to make them really count,'' the official said. 
 For the Americans, the effort to squeeze Iran is the most immediate issue on the table with Mr. Putin. Washington needs Russia's support as it presses the Security Council to pass new sanctions, the third round this year, by mid-July. 
 But it is uncertain how Mr. Putin will react. He has sharply criticized the proposed new American missile defense system, which would include installations in Poland and the Czech Republic, former Soviet satellites, and made inflammatory characterizations of the United States as an unrestrained power. 
 American officials say he may be aiming those comments at a domestic audience and seeking to cement an influential role in Russian affairs after he leaves office in the spring. 
 Some proposals by Britain, which leaked out before Gordon Brown succeeded Tony Blair as prime minister on Wednesday, would deny Iranian airlines and ships permission to take off from, land in, or fly over the territory of other nations. A measure that harsh bears little chance of passage.
 Mr. Bush has told aides he has doubts about how willing Mr. Putin would be to put his country's trade with Iran at risk. Russia supplies much of the equipment and expertise for Iran's main civilian nuclear reactor, and has other ties with Iran, including in the oil sector. 
 ''We imagine that the Russians and the Chinese are going to play slowball here,'' said a senior official involved in the sanctions talks. ''They don't want Iran to get nukes, but they worry what happens if the diplomacy here does not work.''
 White House officials have portrayed Mr. Putin's visit with Mr. Bush as a chance to rebuild their relationship. It now holds little of the warmth displayed after their first meeting in early 2001, when Mr. Bush said he had ''looked the man in the eye'' and gained ''a sense of his soul.'' 
 In fact, it may be the last chance for Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin to cement a common legacy, with Mr. Bush entering the last 19 months of his term and Russia preparing to choose Mr. Putin's successor.
 The agenda for the visit includes social encounters with the former president George H. W. Bush, including a dinner and possibly some fishing. American officials said that Mr. Putin would probably seek to avoid any public disagreements.
 The American plan for a missile defense plan in Europe, which it says is largely to deter Iran's growing missile forces, will certainly be under discussion here. 
 Speaking with reporters on Friday, Dmitri Peskov, a Putin spokesman, said the Russians were dissatisfied with the United States' continued interest in building the system. 
 Mr. Peskov said a surprise Russian proposal to cooperate on a similar system in Azerbaijan two weeks ago was meant as an alternative to American plan, not, as Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates has suggested, a potential complement to it. 
 He portrayed the Russian plan as polite acquiescence with the overheated and questionable fears the United States has expressed over Iran's nuclear capabilities.
 But American officials dismissed that, and said there was in fact a coming together of American and Russian views on Iran.
 A senior administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity before the meetings, said Russia was coming to agree with the United States' assessment of Iran.
 ''I do think we see the threat very much the same,'' the official said. ''It's why we've been able to cooperate very well in terms of the nuclear issue, why we've had their support for two U.N. Security Council resolutions. I think when the time comes we'll have their support for a third.''
 Technical experts for both sides have quietly moved forward in seeking a compromise on the defense system, according to senior Defense Department officials. 
 Lt. Gen. Henry A. Obering III, director of the Missile Defense Agency, and senior aides held an unannounced meeting on Friday with Russian counterparts to begin preliminary technical discussions that included the Azerbaijani radar, according to an agency official. 
 Officials at the White House and at the Kremlin played down expectations of any breakthrough agreements on Iran or the defense system during Mr. Putin's stay. Both sides said they considered it an unofficial visit, not a summit meeting.
 Administration officials said it was Mr. Putin who had initially suggested the timing to meet in the United States, since he was heading to an Olympics committee meeting set in Guatemala. Mr. Bush decided upon his family compound here. Both sides portrayed that as a show of respect for Mr. Putin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); AIRLINES (70%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (61%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (54%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TONY BLAIR (50%); GORDON BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); POLAND (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2007



15 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: Writers Like Me

BYLINE: By Martha Southgate. 
Martha Southgate's most recent novels are ''The Fall of Rome'' and ''Third Girl From the Left.''

 BODY:
I am a 46-year-old writer of ''literary'' fiction. I've had three novels published -- the first for young people, the last two for adults. All have won minor prizes, been respectfully reviewed and sold modestly. I've been awarded a few fairly competitive fellowships and grants. The business is full of fiction writers like me. With one difference: I'm black, born and raised in the United States. At the parties and conferences I attend, and in the book reviews I read, I rarely encounter other African-American ''literary'' writers, particularly in my age bracket. There just don't seem to be that many of us out there, and that's something I've come to wonder about a great deal. And so I got on the phone with some editors and African-American writers to talk about it. 
For many writers, middle age is when they hit their stride. Robert Gottlieb of Knopf, who has been Toni Morrison's editor for many years, said, ''Many very fine writers take time to get there.'' Looking at the white American fiction writers who have the most cultural prominence, one quickly sees a large group in their 40s or 50s (Michael Chabon, Jonathan Franzen, Rick Moody, Jane Smiley, Michael Cunningham et al.) who have generally had four or more major works of fiction published. Gottlieb points out that Morrison's first two books sold adequately, but it wasn't until her third novel, ''Song of Solomon,'' published the year she turned 46, that she had a commercial breakthrough. ''It was larger and more ambitious, demonstrating a new power and authority, and the world noticed,'' he said. ''Some careers start with a bang -- 'Invisible Man,' 'Catch-22.' Others take time to find a significant readership -- Anne Tyler, Toni. And sometimes I feel that those are the healthiest ones.'' 
 But when you look at the careers of African- American writers, you don't always see that healthy arc. Ralph Ellison, for example, seemed to lose his way completely after ''Invisible Man.'' These days, there are only a few names of black authors born in the United States, beyond Morrison's, that the average reader of serious fiction might easily drop -- Colson Whitehead, ZZ Packer, Edward P. Jones. Of these three, only Jones is over 40. 
 In some ways, the American literary scene is more racially and culturally diverse than ever. A few examples: Of the 21 writers on Granta's recent Best of Young American Novelists list, six (including Packer and Uzodinma Iweala) are people of color (many colors: black, South and East Asian, Hispanic), and seven were born or raised outside the United States. Indian writers born or educated here, like Jhumpa Lahiri, Vikram Chandra and Kiran Desai, win critical acclaim and big sales. ''Girlfriend,'' ''urban-lit'' and other branches of commercial genre fiction by African-Americans have continued to enjoy a boom since the door-busting success of Terry McMillan's ''Waiting to Exhale'' in 1992. But black authors writing in an ambitious, thoughtful way about American subjects are harder to find -- even when they do get published. Malaika Adero, a senior editor at Atria Books, said: ''Literary African-American writers have difficulty getting publicity. The retailers then don't order great quantities of the books. Readers don't know what books are available and therefore don't ask for them. It's a vicious cycle.''
 Though the publishing industry remains overwhelmingly white, editors say they are always looking for good, marketable work by writers of any background. Morgan Entrekin, publisher of Grove/Atlantic, which recently published Michael Thomas's first novel, ''Man Gone Down'' -- one of the few novels by an African-American to grace the cover of this publication of late -- said: ''I don't tend to approach the black writers we publish as African-American. I see them as writers first.''
 But there's colorblindness, and then there's blindness. Christopher Jackson, executive editor at Spiegel & Grau, a division of Random House, tells a story about being mistaken for Iweala at the launch party for Granta's Best of Young American Novelists issue -- even though Iweala is more than 10 years Jackson's junior, had just left the stage as an honoree and, frankly, doesn't look much like Jackson. Let's face it, something like that is awfully unlikely to happen to a white editor or writer. It's hard to say whether this obtuseness translates into a lack of interest in African-American work, but some black writers think it might. The novelist Tayari Jones, author of ''The Untelling,'' said: ''I know that there are very few black authors who publish the fourth novel. Hardly any of us are considered prestige authors, so no one is going to sign us up for our names alone.'' Calvin Reid, a senior news editor at Publishers Weekly, who often covers African-American publishing, agrees that black writers stuck in the midlist face an uphill battle, but he sees it as a business reality, not a racial thing: ''If you have two or three books out and you've never sold more than 3,000 copies, people make decisions based on that.''
 Things are tough all over, but arguably tougher for some. For many black writers, a writing life very rarely unfolds the way it does for so many white writers you could name: know you want to be a writer from the age of 10, get your first book published at 26, go on to produce slowly but steadily over a lengthy career. Even Morrison didn't follow that timeline: her first novel wasn't published until she was nearly 40 and had worked for a number of years as a teacher and then an editor at Random House. And she didn't quit that day job until urged to do so by Gottlieb in the mid-1970s, after ''Sula'' was published. 
 So what's holding us up? Sometimes it's just the ordinary difficulty of juggling family, writing and earning a living. But African-
 American writers also speak of a larger problem of what I'd call internal or cultural permission. It's just plain harder to decide to be a writer if you don't have a financial cushion or a long cultural tradition of people going out on that bohemian limb. Consider the case of Edward P. Jones. He published his first book, ''Lost in the City,'' in 1992 (he was 41 at the time) to much critical acclaim and a number of significant honors, if not huge sales. He returned to his day job at Tax Notes magazine, where he remained until he was laid off 10 years later. He then wrote ''The Known World'' in about six months -- though he told me he'd been thinking about it nearly those whole 10 years. The novel won the Pulitzer Prize.
 When asked why he didn't make the leap to full-time writing sooner, Jones spoke firmly: ''If you're born poor or you're born working-class, a job is important. People who are born with silver spoons in their mouths never have to worry. They know someone will take care of them. Worrying about not having a job would have put a damper on any creativity that I would have had. So I'm glad I had that job.'' 
 The problem isn't just money, says Randall Kenan, a 1994 Whiting Award winner who published two critically acclaimed books of fiction in 1989 and 1992, and two nonfiction books since 1999: ''I think among middle-class black folk, it's still a struggle to validate literature as a worthy way to spend your time.'' ZZ Packer, the author of the story collection ''Drinking Coffee Elsewhere,'' who is currently at work on a novel, said the situation is somewhat different for those who are younger. (She is 34.) ''People who came half a generation before us were the first ones to begin to go to elite colleges in larger numbers,'' she said. ''They were beholden to a lot of their parents' expectations, namely, that if you go to a prestigious school, you're going to become a doctor or a lawyer, you're not going to 'waste your time' writing. People who are around my age have seen blacks in the Northeastern establishment for a while. ... They don't always feel the same obligation to ditch their dream for something more practical.'' 
 It saddens me to think of the dreams that have been ditched, the stories that haven't been told because of racism, because of fear and economic insecurity, because that first novel didn't move enough copies. I hope to see the day when there are more of us at the party (and the parties), when the work of African-Americans who tell our part of the American story well receives the celebration, and the sales, it deserves. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (Drawing by Oliver Munday) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007



16 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; The Way We Live Now: Reconsideration; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1551 words

HEADLINE: Loyal to a Fault

BYLINE: By Maya Jasanoff. 
Maya Jasanoff is an associate professor of British history at Harvard University. She is the author of ''Edge of Empire: Lives, Culture and Conquest in the East, 1750-1850''

 BODY:
Every Independence Day we celebrate the founding of the world's most powerful -- and for some, inspirational -- nation. Yet for several months after July 4, 1776, the self-proclaimed United States of America looked set to go down in history as a nation that never was. That August, in the biggest battle of the Revolution, the British trounced the Continental Army on Long Island, nearly forcing an American surrender.
As Washington's beleaguered soldiers retreated through New Jersey, thousands of Americans loyal to King George III surged into New York City -- where they would remain under British protection for the rest of the war. These loyalists had no desire ''to dissolve the political bands'' with Britain, as the Declaration of Independence demanded. Instead, as they explained in a petition to British authorities, they ''steadily and uniformly opposed'' this ''most unnatural, unprovoked Rebellion, that ever disgraced the annals of Time.'' While the rebels sought to sever the connection between Britain and the colonies, the loyalists ''most ardently wish[ed] for a restoration of that union between them.'' Where the rebels challenged the king, the loyalists staunchly upheld royal authority: they had ''borne true Allegiance to His Majesty, and the most warm and affectionate attachment to his Person and Government.'' 
 During three days in November 1776, this petition sat in Scott's Tavern, on Wall Street, to be signed by anyone who wished. A frank declaration of dependence, it completely lacks the revolutionary genius and rhetorical grace of our hallowed July 4 document. Yet in all, more than 700 people put their names to the parchment -- 12 times the number who signed the Declaration of Independence. Among the signatories were pillars of New York society: wealthy merchants like Hugh Wallace, who commanded vast tracts of land and capital; members of some of New York's most prominent families, the DeLanceys, the Livingstons and the Philipses; and the clergymen Charles Inglis and Samuel Seabury, who published articulate rebuttals to rebel pamphlets like Thomas Paine's ''Common Sense.'' But most of the names belonged to the ordinary people who made New York run: tavern keepers and carpenters; farmers from the Hudson Valley or New Jersey; men like the baker James Orchard, who supplied bread for British troops; the Greenwich blacksmith James Stewart, who joined the British Army; and the hairdresser and perfumer James Deas.
 Loyalists are the American Revolution's guilty secret: rarely spoken of, hauntingly present. At least one in five Americans is believed to have remained loyal to Britain during the war. They expressed their opinions passively and actively: refusing to forswear allegiance to the king, signing petitions or joining loyalist military regiments -- as nearly 20,000 men did -- to defend their vision of British America. In retaliation, they faced harassment from their peers, most vividly (if rarely) by tarring and feathering. Some would suffer for their loyalty in open battle; others faced sanctions from state legislatures, which could strip them of their land and possessions, imprison them or formally banish them.
 The Tories, as the patriots pejoratively called them, are still often caricatured as elitist and out of touch, foreign, even treacherous. Granted, their dream of a continued imperial relationship with Britain had none of the political innovation that gave rise to the new republic. And yet it bears stressing that our ''self-evident'' founding principles were not seen that way by fully one-fifth of the population. Many of the United States' first and most passionate critics were Americans themselves.
 After the Revolutionary War ended, thousands of loyalists blended into the nation, and their descendants participated in shaping American society. But many -- as many as 1 in 30 Americans -- did not. Feeling insecure and unwelcome in the United States, and attracted by British promises of land and compensation, some 80,000 loyalists left their homes to build new lives elsewhere in the still-vigorous British Empire. About half fled north to Canada, among them more than 3,000 black loyalists -- former slaves who had been granted freedom in exchange for fighting for the British -- and several hundred Mohawk Indians, longstanding British allies. Many loyalists entered Jamaican society as doctors, printers, merchants and planters -- or tried their luck at cotton planting on the out-islands of the Bahamas. In perhaps the most intriguing migration, a contingent of just under 1,200 black loyalists relocated in 1792 from Nova Scotia to the experimental free black colony of Sierra Leone. Some of their black peers wound up yet farther afield, among the first convicts shipped out to Australia's Botany Bay. And a few loyalists made their way to India -- including two of Benedict Arnold's sons, who found love, war and death as officers in the East India Company's army.
 The scale and range of this exodus point to a gap in popular understandings of the American revolutionary tradition. We pride ourselves on the freedom and tolerance embedded in our founding principles. We have also recently begun to acknowledge the discrepancy between the nation's vaunted commitment to ''life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness'' and the gross abuse of these principles in practice -- through slavery above all. (Compared with the United States, the British Empire looked like a good bet if you were an enslaved black or a Native American.) But the loyalist emigres had experienced a form of exclusion that is less familiarly American: one based on political affiliation. Unlike slaves and Native Americans, who were never assumed to be part of the republic's political fabric, the majority of loyalist families were headed by white, property-owning men, who if not for their allegiances would otherwise have been enfranchised members of the new polity. In opting for the king, they were motivated not only by economic interests and trans-Atlantic cultural ties but also by a coherent set of political beliefs. 
 Loyalists believed they already lived under a constitution -- a British Constitution -- directed by the supreme figure of the king. Republicanism was treason; it heralded descent into anarchy and violence. As the minister Charles Inglis explained in his rejoinder to Paine's ''Common Sense,'' under a republic ''all property . . . would be unhinged,'' ''the old Constitution would be totally subverted,'' thousands would be forced to ''wound their conscience'' by renouncing the king, ''torrents of blood will be spilt and thousands reduced to beggary and wretchedness'' -- and after all that, judging from history, chances were high Americans would end up in ''thralldom'' to an individual despot. ''Even Hobbes would blush,'' he said, to acknowledge Paine as ''a disciple.''
 Though many loyalists technically left by choice, freedom meant little if your property had been confiscated or your person threatened. It is no wonder, then, that the loyalist migrants routinely referred to themselves as refugees, since like many modern asylum seekers they moved under a shadow of trauma and fear. Their accounts of their plight -- in letters, diaries, claims and petitions for support -- form a wrenching archive of woe. Even the wealthy Hugh Wallace, the first person to sign the New York declaration, was reduced to loneliness, illness and deprivation. ''If ever man was to be pitied, he is,'' his brother reported, not long after the war's end. ''His losses hang heavy on him & his being from his wife hurts him much.'' So effectively did the loyalists articulate their distresses that the British government established a commission to reimburse them for their losses (though few were satisfied with the ultimate rewards they received).
 Still, even as the loyalists put down roots in the British Empire, it seemed that they had not left every trace of America behind. For what should they promptly express abroad but an uncannily American desire for greater political representation -- much to the chagrin of British officials. Fired up by an ''American spirit of innovation,'' as one disgruntled British governor put it, loyalists clamored for participation everywhere from the Canadian Maritimes to the Bahamas to Sierra Leone. In some settings, they achieved it. Thanks in part to the loyalists' political legacy, Canada gained limited self-government earlier than any other British colony, providing a template for later home rule and decolonization. Apparently you could take the colonists out of America, but something American in them endured. 
 The American Revolution went well, as revolutions go: no guillotines, no gulags. But the democratic revolution was nonetheless violent. The American way was established by force, and those who did not renounce their old allegiances in favor of the new government paid a price. Then again, there may be a cue to be taken from the surprising way in which loyalists, victims of the American idea, became unwitting emissaries of American values. American-ness comes in many shapes and forms and holds a peculiar appeal, even to some of its critics. After all, despite its imperfections, our most successful exercise in nation-building continues to be our own. 

GRAPHIC: Drawings: For loyalists during the Revolution, public mockery was just the beginning. (Illustration from The Granger Collection)
 Stripped of rights, property and dignity, many loyalist families sought greener pastures in the British Empire. But they carried with them the democratic ideas they had ostensibly rejected. (Drawing from Culver Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); ARMIES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); PETITIONS (88%); ARMED FORCES (76%); BRITISH MONARCHS (76%); MEN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007



17 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; The Way We Live Now: Questions for Wesley K. Clark; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Generally Speaking

BYLINE: By Deborah Solomon

 BODY:
As a retired four-star general and former presidential candidate, you're about to publish a memoir whose title, ''A Time to Lead,'' might seem to suggest you're personally eager to lead this country. Is that an accurate reading? ''A Time to Lead'' is a time for America to lead. That is the intention of the title. Certainly we are having a leadership crisis. We have an administration that has lost all sense of strategic purpose in the Mideast. I am very concerned that we have lost the foundation of America's worldwide power and influence. It has been squandered.
Are you referring to our military strength? The most important element of power is not the military. After World War II and through the end of the 20th century, we had a legitimacy that magnified our military strength and economic strength. We weren't like other powers. We weren't after an empire. We didn't torture. What we've lost is our legitimacy. It's time for every American to be a leader. 
 Is that practical? If every American were a leader, there would be no one left for them to boss around. Leaders don't boss. Not if they're any good. They persuade. And I think America needs a whole lot more persuading and a lot less bossing.
 It sounds as if you're running for president again as a Democrat. I haven't said I won't. I think about it every day.
 The field is already overcrowded with aspiring presidents. Do you think we've become a country where everyone wants to be in charge and no one can tolerate being second? Every American should strive to be all they can be. And that striving will make them better even if they end up in second place.
 What do you make of all the how-to books and seminars on leadership? What true leader would ever take a leadership seminar? I've never met an effective leader who wasn't aware of his talents and working to sharpen them.
 As a decorated leader yourself who served as NATO's Supreme Allied Commander during the war in Kosovo, how would you assess the threat that Al Qaeda poses to this country? Al Qaeda is not an existential threat to the United States the way the Soviet Union was. You have to understand that the Soviet Union was a country of more than 200 million people. Al Qaeda is maybe 50,000 angry and destructive individuals.
 You make Al Qaeda sound as unthreatening as a schoolyard gang. Al Qaeda is unpredictable and dangerous and has an unknown number of sympathizers. But the Soviets had thousands of nuclear warheads, nuclear bombs, biological and chemical warheads and specially trained assassination teams aimed at us, and all of it was on a hair-trigger status that could have been set off by accident or miscalculation. 
 Neoconservatives generally argue just the opposite, claiming that the fight against terrorism is no less daunting than the cold war and in fact constitutes ''World War IV,'' to borrow the title of Norman Podhoretz's forthcoming book. Thus far, we don't have an opposing superpower against us, no matter how much the neoconservatives long for this. Perhaps the neoconservatives believe that we can only be defined by having an enemy.
 You just left your gig as a foreign-affairs analyst on Fox News. Whom will they replace you with? I'm sure they are going to find some good Democrat. I'm really looking forward to being with MSNBC. They have great people, like Keith Olbermann and Chris Matthews. 
 Do you have any plans for this Wednesday, Independence Day? I'm going to be in Little Rock,Ark., celebrating the birth of our nation with family and friends. 
 Why do Americans eat hot dogs on July 4? Because they're easier to cook than hamburgers. 
 Do you think the Founding Fathers ate hot dogs? They say an army travels on its stomach, but I think most of the armies in those days ate something far worse than hot dogs. Deborah Solomon

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photograph by Karen Ballard) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (84%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); WORLD WAR II (74%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); KOSOVO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007



18 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Up Front

 BODY:
Elizabeth Gilbert, the gifted author of ''Eat, Pray, Love'' and several other books of both fiction and nonfiction, has written our cover review this week. Is she, we wondered, a fast reader? She replied, by e-mail, in the affirmative: ''I only wish I could go to the Olympics for it. The downside of being a fast reader, though, is that I'm also a sloppy, word-skipping, careless reader. No sane person should ever bring a manuscript to me for detailed proofreading, but if you need your novel swallowed whole before lunch, I'm your girl.'' 
Like Mildred Armstrong Kalish, in the memoir reviewed here, Gilbert grew up on a farm. ''It was definitely farming lite compared to the lifestyle she lived,'' Gilbert writes. ''Our whole family farm was probably about as big as her mother's vegetable garden. And I was raised in New England in the 1970s, which -- even with the oil crisis and inflation -- was a whole different galaxy than Iowa in the 1930s. That said, I probably responded to the book so warmly because I was raised by people who were very much like Mildred -- namely, my grandmother and my mother, who also learned their gumption and resourcefulness back on a Midwestern farm.'' The Editors

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (69%); FAMILY FARMS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (52%); MIDWEST USA (51%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007



19 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Making History

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Walter Kirn's review of my book ''A Young People's History of the United States'' (June 17) attributes to me the belief that ''telling the truth is not Job 1 for historians.'' The reviewer seems to hold to the l9th-century von Ranke idea that there is one truth to be told. Most historians, and most intelligent people, including bright 12-year-olds, understand that there is no such thing as a single ''objective'' truth, but that there are different truths according to the viewpoint of the historian. Kirn is intent on giving a sinister ring to what is common sense. 
 Kirn is irritated because his ''truth'' is not mine. His truths -- built around veneration of the ''great men'' of the past: the political leaders, the enterprising industrialists -- add up to exactly the simplistic history fed to young people over the generations, which my book tries to replace. His kind of history produces a submissive population, always looking for saviors on high. I prefer that readers of history, including the young, learn that we cannot depend on established authority to keep us out of war and to create economic justice, but rather that solving these problems depends on us, the citizenry, and on the great social movements we have created.
 My history, therefore, describes the inspiring struggle of those who have fought slavery and racism (Frederick Douglass, William Lloyd Garrison, Fannie Lou Hamer, Bob Moses), of the labor organizers who have led strikes for the rights of working people (Big Bill Haywood, Mother Jones, Cesar ChAvez), of the socialists and others who have protested war and militarism (Eugene Debs, Helen Keller, the Rev. Daniel Berrigan, Cindy Sheehan). My hero is not Theodore Roosevelt, who loved war and congratulated a general after a massacre of Filipino villagers at the turn of the century, but Mark Twain, who denounced the massacre and satirized imperialism.
 Kirn is annoyed at my refusal to go along with the orthodox romanticization of Lincoln. I suspect he has not read the chapter on Lincoln in Richard Hofstadter's classic, ''The American Political Tradition,'' in which Hofstadter brilliantly punctures what he calls the ''Lincoln legend.''
 Kirn says: ''Writing about abolitionism, Zinn leaves the impression that freeing the slaves was not enough.'' It seems he does not know of the work of W. E. B. Du Bois and Eric Foner, who document the betrayal of the freed slave after the Civil War. 
 I want young people to understand that ours is a beautiful country, but it has been taken over by men who have no respect for human rights or constitutional liberties. Our people are basically decent and caring, and our highest ideals are expressed in the Declaration of Independence, which says that all of us have an equal right to ''life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.'' The history of our country, I point out in my book, is a striving, against corporate robber barons and war makers, to make those ideals a reality -- and all of us, of whatever age, can find immense satisfaction in becoming part of that. 
 Howard Zinn
 Auburndale, Mass.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (86%); CIVIL WAR (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (69%); RACE & RACISM (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007



20 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 6135 words

HEADLINE: The Amateur Future of Space Travel

BYLINE: By Jack Hitt. 
Jack Hitt is a contributing writer for the magazine and is currently at work on a book about amateurs in America.

 BODY:
When Peter K. Homer, an out-of-work director of a local community center in Maine, first heard that NASA was turning to America's backyard inventors to brainstorm new technologies for a possible return to the moon, he had an idea. With NASA sponsoring seven design contests for everything from a new lunar lander to a new space glove, anybody with a home-brewed invention could enter. Homer's previous jobs included some gigs in the aerospace industry as well as work sewing boat sails. So, Homer told me not long ago, he ruled out building a flying spacecraft but decided that ''the glove contest represented something of the scale I could achieve working out of my home by myself.'' He'd always been a garage tinkerer, he said, and being unemployed, he also wanted to prove to his 14-year-old son ''that you can do anything if you put your mind to it.'' Oh, he added offhandedly, ''the money is a motivator, too.'' At stake was a prize -- presented with one of those giant cardboard checks -- for $200,000. 
Last spring, Homer seized his family's dining room, occupied his garage and set out to build a better space glove for NASA. It doesn't sound like the most glamorous task in the larger effort of conquering the final frontier, or maybe even that big of a problem. But the space glove is fraught with little tribulations that, like a pebble in a shoe, can drive a space program half crazy. Because the air inside a spacesuit is highly pressurized, each time an astronaut flexes a muscle, he has to overcome the suit's resistance. It's actual work. And when it comes to the highly articulated precision that is the human hand, this means that the fine sinews are quickly exhausted and the fingers brutalized by the effort. Astronauts often return from space with their hands rubbed raw, sometimes bleeding. ''In the early days,'' I was told by Alan Hayes, the C.E.O. of Volanz Aerospace Inc., the company that NASA chose to run the glove contest, ''the astronauts lost their fingernails. It was really kind of gross.''
 Gary L. Harris, a giant in the world of space gear, told me that ''flexing the hand in space is like squeezing a tennis ball.'' Harris is an industrial designer and the author of a book called ''The Origins and Technology of the Advanced Extravehicular Space Suit.'' ''There are 200-something bones in the adult body,'' he said, ''and something like 26 of them are in our hand. No mechanical device made yet can duplicate it, yet it has the weakest muscles.'' As a technological puzzle, he went on, the space glove poses all the challenges of the spacesuit, in miniature. ''The four fingers are like the four limbs,'' he said, ''and the thumb is a like a shoulder -- omnidirectional, capable of 360 degrees of motion.'' 
 A few months ago, Harris showed up at the New England Air Museum, next to the Hartford, Conn., airport, where the glove contest was held. Many of the amateur designers on hand had read Harris's book for clues on glove innovation and were thrilled to meet him, until they found out he would also be competing against them. Harris had teamed with a tall, quiet Muscovite named Nik Moiseev, the man partly responsible for the cosmonauts' glove in the Russian space program. It was Moiseev's idea to partner up with Harris and win the money. ''There's no space work in Russia,'' Harris confided to me, adding that for the time being Moiseev was bunking in Harris's spare bedroom in Florida. (They joined forces with Pablo de LeA$(3$)n, the founder of a company that sells spacesuits.)
 Even after I learned that only 5 of the (rumored) 10 contestants had arrived, the assortment was, in a word, diverse. Besides Harris, the Russian and Homer, there was an art student named Ted Southern from the Pratt Institute in New York. Southern moonlights as a costume fabricator for movies and has worked recently on the outfits in Julie Taymor's coming film, ''Across the Universe.'' And those angel's wings on the Victoria's Secret models? Southern built the frames.
 Then there was an elderly Irishman with bright, blue, wary eyes who'd rather his name not become public. He spoke with an old-school Bronx accent that would make Robert De Niro cry. He wore moth-eaten clothes, practically trembled with suspicion and trailed a pitiless cloud of ammonia. He quit the contest before it even began, as did Flint Hamblin. Hamblin flew in late from Utah but then announced that his lawyers were not keen on him publicly disclosing his new novel technology, so instead he lingered, adding his own cagey aura to the mix. 
 Paranoid or not (participating or not), this tiny subfraternity of inventors clearly loved to talk and could very quickly segue from the practical mechanics of gloves to the philosophical profundity of the human hand. They seemed long past entertaining any notion that what they were doing was inconsequential or frivolous. Sure, you might toss out a phrase like ''glove technology'' and make a childish honking noise from your nose suggesting that there was some kind of oxymoronic drift to the expression. They were just as likely to look at you oddly, wondering if you were O.K.
 ''The writer Frank Wilson goes into this whole theory that it's not just our brains but our hands that control the way we think,'' Southern said. ''Even our grammar is built around our actions, actions taken with our hands.'' 
 Homer summed up the bulk of his research thus: ''I spent a lot of time doing this.'' He held a single index finger a few inches from a fixed gaze and flexed it up and down, like a late-night stoner, real slow. Homer, who is 45, is a strikingly handsome guy -- John Edwards handsome. He speaks with the slow you-can't-get-there-from-here pace of a true Mainer, as well as with a low-talker treble so quiet you might strain across his worktable, lose your footing and crash to the floor.
 At the heart of the space-glove conundrum, Homer told me, is a gnarly clash of basic physics. The pressurized lining of a space glove, called a bladder, strains to push out. ''Have you ever seen a doctor take a surgical glove and blow it up like a balloon with five ears?'' Homer said, explaining how a bladder works. (Each inventor tries to explain this phenomenon in his own signature way. The nearly wordless Russian pulled out a handheld international translator, typed furiously and said, ''Uhda, uhda,'' before showing me the screen, which read: UDDER. Then the Russian emitted his only laugh of the contest.)
 ''The bladder wants to take the shape of a sphere,'' Homer went on, ''and that's exactly what this glove wants to do when you pressurize it.'' So an outer layer of the glove must be fashioned that confines the bladder without doing the same to the hand. Hence, the conflict. ''How do you restrain something but keep it flexible at the same time?'' Homer asked.
 Much of mechanical innovation boils down to finding just the right compromises to such puzzles. Many of us think of invention or innovation as a wholly conceived, brand-new, big-leap-forward creation unlike anything that has preceded it. But much of mechanical success involves fiddling with the inherent conflicts within a device until you find a tiny interstice among the countervailing forces, that sweet spot, where the device suddenly does what you want it to do. In the case of the glove, the sweet spot is the precise tradeoff of restraint and flexibility that will allow for maximum dexterity. 
 According to the NASA contest rules, the winner of the $200,000 prize would have to outperform the NASA Phase VI glove in a series of dexterity and finger-torque tests, including the money shot of space-glove smackdowns -- the burst test, in which the glove is pumped full of water until it explodes. In the months preceding the contest, each participant wrestled the basic glove paradox to the ground, hoping to find a new compromise that would allow him to win these tests. ''I sat up one night around midnight wrapping tape around my fingers,'' Homer told me a week before the contest, ''and I had the aha! moment.'' He said he got extremely excited and shot a lot of pictures of his hand. ''Then I woke up my wife,'' he recalled, and smiled. ''She told me to come to bed.'' That's the thing about midnight discoveries. Most of the time, they don't turn out so great in the light of day. Yet not long afterward, Homer was worrying about patents. When you're an inventor, fear that your iPod-level breakthrough will be stolen is not easy to ward off. 
 So, I asked Homer outright: What was the discovery?
 ''You'll have to come to the contest,'' he said quietly, his voice suddenly on tiptoes of suspicion, ''and find out.''
 It was in 2004 that NASA inaugurated what it calls the Centennial Challenges. The purses for the seven contests would range from the $200,000 for the glove to $2 million for the creation of a new lunar lander. Other competitions challenge contestants to invent things like a device that extracts oxygen from moon dirt; a personal air vehicle (a kind of flying car, although I'm still holding out for the jet pack of my childhood); a superstrong tether; an excavator capable of digging in the densely compacted powdery soil of the moon; and a beam-powered climber. This last one is a motorized device that pulls itself up a 200-foot-long ribbon suspended from a crane; all of the power for its motors is beamed on board from a remote source on the ground. Beam-powered technology, if perfected, would change a lot about space, allowing machines on the moon, for instance, to be recharged from a distance.
 NASA's competitions arose, in part, from a desire to return to the moon, as well as to hand off part of NASA's old mission to the private sector -- that mission being to make low-orbit space travel a mere extension of planes, trains and automobiles. Of course, the competitions are also a sign of a bureaucracy trying to revive itself. From tragic shuttle explosions to diapered astronaut stalkers, NASA hasn't had a good decade since ''I Dream of Jeannie'' was canceled. Congress has appropriated for NASA a $12 million contest budget, nearly all of which -- $10.9 million -- is prize money. The competitions themselves are organized and run by private nonprofits like Volanz Aerospace. The winners retain the rights to their inventions. So if it works out as planned, everybody wins: the inventors make money, the companies get good publicity and NASA gets its technology. 
 So far this has not been easy. Even as Gary Harris and his Russian colleague were brainstorming at Harris's house in Florida, not a single one of these contests had had a winner, and NASA had not paid out its first dollar -- not an easy thing to pull off for a government bureaucracy under pressure to make a show of success.
 Some contests have been achingly close. Last year's beam-power competition came within seconds of having a winner. And this May, a contest known as the Regolith Excavation Challenge attracted another diverse mix of entrants: two graduate students at the University of Missouri at Rolla; a guy who runs the boilers for the Detroit public schools; and a programmer for Pacific Gas and Electric named Jim Greenhaw, who wore a cap promoting an organization of his called Technology Ranch. The contest was particularly tough: you had to dig and move 330 pounds of simulated regolith (the powdery dirt that covers the moon) from a large sandbox to a scale in less than 30 minutes using only 30 watts of power -- roughly the energy needed to light one of those small bulbs in the back of refrigerator. Most of the machines failed immediately, digging into the particulate and grinding to a halt. But Greenhaw's device, a souped-up conveyor belt fitted with little scoops, managed to haul a lot of regolith. (When I asked Greenhaw where Technology Ranch was located, he smiled and pointed to his forehead. ''Right here,'' he said.) Unfortunately, Greenhaw's digger lacked sidewalls along a chute that carried the regolith, and as a result much of the dirt was pushed off the side and onto the ground. With just a few pieces of duct tape and a couple more scoops fitted to the belt, Greenhaw might well have won the $125,000.
 ''One of the reasons Congress was telling us they weren't giving us any more money,'' Ken Davidian, the NASA administrator of the challenges, told me, ''was because we had not awarded any money.'' Davidian is a small compact man with a bit of a Dudley Do-Right chin and a swift, busy manner. At any of the contests, he can be found setting up his traveling triptych (actually five panels, a pentatych) of promotional material. ''I wasn't disappointed we weren't giving money away,'' he said, ''because we had good company, and it shows that the prizes were hard to win.'' 
 The ''good company'' Davidian refers to is the recent surge in prize offerings from government and private sponsors alike. Perhaps the most well known is the Ansari X Prize, which offered $10 million to the first designer to build a vehicle capable of making a round trip into suborbital space twice in two weeks. (The legendary engineer Burt Rutan won it in 2004.) The unlikely sponsor of a robot-car race started in 2004 was the Pentagon's own lab, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or Darpa. In 2005, a Stanford team won that competition's $2 million purse with ''Stanley,'' an unmanned car that finished a 132-mile desert course in a first-place time of just less than seven hours. This fall, contestants in the robot-car race will compete on an urban race course. Congress is also currently considering the H-Prize Act, a bill that would provide purses of up to $10 million in six contests for breakthroughs related to hydrogen energy. All of these contests probably owe their origins to an influential 1999 report by the National Academy of Engineering, whose recommendation can be deciphered from its clunky title, ''Concerning Federally Sponsored Inducement Prizes in Engineering and Science.''
 Americans, perhaps more so than people of other nations, have great faith in the idea of the outsider inventor. The stories of inventors who made it out of their garages (Steve Jobs) and those who stayed there (Philo T. Farnsworth) are part of the national mythology. Ever since Benjamin Franklin broke with his apprenticeship in Boston as a teenager and recreated himself as a freethinker and fearless inventor (a narrative, some say, he simply repeated and wrote large with the founding of the nation), amateurism has taken on different connotations in this country. Old World use of the word ''amateur'' intimated lower-class status, even incompetency, but in America, the land of second acts, ''amateur'' has accrued some of the more positive meanings we associate with the concept of the autodidact. Americans seem drawn to the story of the outsider-made-good with an intensity that has riveted the nation from the earliest amateur contests featured regularly in Vaudeville to the latest versions of such shows, like ''American Idol.'' In America, the self-made citizen is a kind of superhero.
 In the 1970s, when the first gas crisis hit, I remember hanging out in hours-long lines with other drivers, and one story you heard was about an always-unnamed sheik from OPEC. At some big meeting, the story went, he warned his fellow energy barons that they dare not raise gas prices too high. Why? The sheik explained that you didn't want to upset Americans too much with higher prices because they would just invent something better than oil, returning their fertile sands once again to useless desert. It was the feel-good anecdote of 1975, not unlike the earlier one told about rubber during World War II. (When supplies got cut off by the war, Americans simply invented synthetic rubber.) The veracity of these stories, like that of any good bit of folklore, hardly matters. The bigger truth is that Americans have always believed that however great the facilities might be at Bell Labs or at M.I.T., there is another place, the backyard/cellar/garage of the self-taught inventor, where sweat and commitment and zealous tinkering may lead him through one failure after another until he breaks through to an ingenious, patent-pending solution.
 Part of the reality behind the legend is the fact that various disciplines do indeed cycle through periods of inventiveness -- often propelled by cash prizes offered by individuals or institutions eager to nudge creativity along. The achievement of those famous bicycle repairmen, Orville and Wilbur Wright, spawned a spate of prizes in the early 20th century to spur amateurs toward various goals, like crossing the English Channel. Eventually Charles Lindbergh flew across the Atlantic Ocean, not only to push the aviation envelope but also to beat out other competitors to win the Orteig Prize, worth $25,000.
 For budget-conscious bureaucracies, there is another good reason to offer prizes: they're cost-effective. The total investment made by the Orteig contestants, according to Davidian, ''was 16 times the value of the purse. Combined, they spent $400,000 going after a $25,000 purse.'' A less well known aspect of Lindbergh's creativity was his charm at hornswoggling some Missouri financiers to pay for all of his research and prototyping -- St. Louis businessmen whose preening sense of risk-taking Lindbergh repaid with the immortality of the name of his rickety little plane.
 NASA hopes to inspire similar expenditures. ''What makes prize money work is that the inventors aren't even looking at the prize as the payoff,'' Davidian said; instead, the real money is linked to the invention of a product that can be sold for greater profit at some point down the line. In fact, Davidian went on, the amount of prize money is configured according to estimates of potential downstream sales. ''The stronger that link to an after-market,'' he said, ''the smaller we can make the purse.''
 NASA is banking on the idea that a renascence of technological ingenuity is just a treasure chest away. The hope is that the lure of the prize will attract another bright-faced inventor out there like Charles Lindbergh, a guy who tinkered with the tradeoffs of weight, fuel, speed and route to jigger a plane that could make it to Paris on a single tank. He so profoundly changed the public's perception of flight that international commercial air travel soon followed.
 The plains of Missouri were as flat as ever as my flight landed in Kansas City. The next day, a Category 5 tornado just to the south sheared the town of Greensburg right off the surface of the earth, leaving a grid of rubble. Black clouds hung claustrophobically low, tumbling toward the horizon, punctuated by ground-rattling thunder. Serenely at work in his garage was Brian Turner -- by day, a computer consultant; by weekend, hopeful winner of this October's Beam-Power Challenge. Purse: $500,000. 
 ''I must have a few hundred years of bad luck ahead of me,'' Turner said, explaining the fate of his unique power source in last year's competition. He had gathered 135 mirrors in order to harness the sun's energy, but he broke some two dozen of them while fitting them into their wheeled, movable stands. His scheme was to keep all the mirrors pointing at the solar cells on his climber, effectively creating the equivalent of nearly 300 blazing suns as his power source. ''These were closet-door mirrors,'' he said. ''The kind you could get at Lowe's.'' Specifically, those tall narrow ones you might bolt to the back of your bathroom door. More specifically, the Lasting Reflections brand. To the surprise of the other contestants, Turner's climber sprinted up much of the 200-foot ribbon. The climber stalled only when some wind caused it to wobble and lose alignment with the light from the mirrors. No one won the contest last October, but Turner's peers were impressed enough with his showing that he became known as the proprietor of the Archimedes Death Ray -- a homage (by way of the TV show ''Mythbusters'') to the famous story about Archimedes, the Greek mathematician who was said to have focused the light off of some warriors' shields onto enemy ships and set them on fire.
 This year, Turner has new designs for both his climber and his mirrors. He maintains a motley team to help him out: his mom, a former mechanic at T.W.A.; his farmer father-in-law, who welds; a phone-company worker who as a kid obsessed on solar-powered go-carts; two home-schooled teenagers around the corner who are whizzes with robotics; a programmer in California; and a guy with an alternative energy blog who joins Turner for occasional brainstorming conference calls.
 Turner looks younger than his 38 years. He's losing his hair on top, but a pair of round spectacles highlights energetic blue eyes above the big-teeth grin of a 10-year-old boy. Like all inventors, Turner contends with the mechanical bartering at the heart of the beam climber -- weight versus stability versus speed. An entire half day in his garage on the weekend I visited was spent pondering the merits of balsa's light weight versus pine's greater strength. That morning, despite the ominous weather, much of the team had arrived and eagerly jumped to work. The conversation was chatty and fun and constant. Frustrations were easily defused with jokes, and Turner was a fount of information. ''Balsa only grows among other trees,'' he said to no one in particular. Later it would appear that balsa won this tiny garage debate based almost exclusively on its sociability. 
 Issues sprouted up persistently all morning. The mirrors didn't quite focus properly. One motor part was stainless steel and the other was aluminum, and you can't weld those together. The solar cells on the climber couldn't touch the balsa struts or the cells might overheat. Would fiberglass scrim, strung as a tight as a drum, work? Or would the material sag over time and cause more of the fatal wobbling? These issues burbled up all morning, and Turner juggled one solution after another, constantly trying to fiddle their outcomes toward the larger goal of winning. 
 With every problem, Turner's mind nudged the team closer to an engineer's solution. For instance, last year some of his backers became concerned that he would travel to the competition, which was held in New Mexico, only to discover that it was raining and there was no sunlight for his mirrors to reflect. ''Yeah, we would have been completely out of luck, but the competition was set up as the best of three,'' Turner explained, as the rain just outside the open doors of his two-car garage gushed into self-forming rivulets. ''I did the math on what the odds were of it being cloudy in New Mexico all three times that we ran. And the answer turned out to be less than 2 percent. So there was a 98 percent chance there would be a sun.''
 Every detail went like this. One conference call on speakerphone concerned motor efficiency, and for two hours debates raged over the smallest riddles of volts and resistance. Sitting in a chair next to Turner, I was surprised how easy it was to tap back into that old college skill of sitting upright with an attentive pen while falling asleep. Edison said invention was 99 percent perspiration. It's not just a good line.
 Turner calls his team the Kansas City Space Pirates. Their insignia, which is emblazoned all over the official trailer, T-shirts and hard hats, is a Jolly Roger, except planet earth is where the skull should be, and instead of crossed cutlasses, there is a pair of interlocking sunbeams. ''Our enemy is gravity,'' Turner said. Another enemy is lack of funds. After last year's defeat, Turner did the math: If you include the several thousand dollars kicked in by various team members and his own deep investment and a few silent backers out there, the total cost of his 2006 climber, Turner estimates, was $50,000. 
 And that's why this year he is offering investors many promotional opportunities, hoping to revive that old spirit of St. Louis. Any corporate logo can appear on his T-shirts or on the side of his trailer -- for a fee. He has a price list that is, in Brian Turner fashion, painstakingly specific. A corporate logo on his weigh-in scale runs $500. Advertising on his hard hat is $3,000. Or you can get the Full Monty, which includes ''team-naming rights, mention during interviews, climber banner'' for $40,000. How much has he raised so far? ''We've raised enough to guarantee we're going,'' he said.
 Actually, he later admitted, fund-raising has been a pretty hard slog. ''We get a lot of invitations to go fill out forms on the Web,'' he said. ''The Internet is the new brushoff.'' Hanging out with Turner, I found it hard not to wonder if his ideas and promotional schemes were loopy or brilliant. Of course, Turner himself had the same thought. ''The difference between being a mad scientist and a famous inventor is the difference between failure and success,'' he said. ''I guess I'm still in the mad-scientist phase.'' 
 When Turner competed last year, the other teams who saw his mirrors thought they were the brainchild of a mad scientist, but not after he performed. At times, the teams even helped one another out. Turner wants to win, he said, but he'd like his technology to be superior and not win just because everybody else screwed up. So when another team saw Turner's impressive Archimedes Death Ray, they wanted the mirrors to supplement their high-powered Hollywood-premiere flood lamps. Turner cut a side deal on the spot for his power source: a $30,000 cut of the prize should they win. (It didn't work out.) 
 People sometimes ask Turner if he's in all this to advance the progress of mankind. ''It's like, no, I'm here for the money,'' he said cheerfully. Turner is enamored with the thought that problems he has been puzzling over on weekends with two home-schooled teenagers might pay off. Always the detail man, Turner has made the Kansas City Space Pirates an L.L.C. (limited liability corporation) with detailed bylaws explaining how the $500,000 will be split up. 
 The mad-scientist quotient is arguably higher among beam-power enthusiasts than among contestants in the other competitions. The young teenager on the team, a long drink of water with a bowl of blond hair, is named Danny Leafblad. One night as he and I drove home from dinner at Arthur Bryant's, the famous barbecue restaurant, he let me in on a secret. For NASA, this competition is supposedly about beam power, but for the inventors, it's about building a so-called space elevator -- in theory, a 60,000-mile-tall structure that would get us into space using some of the same technology Elisha Otis tinkered with to get us up and down skyscrapers. ''NASA doesn't mention the space elevator,'' Leafblad said defensively. ''It's not on their site.'' 
 One of Turner's other teammates is Frank Smith, a very tall, lanky Midwesterner. Smith introduced himself as a ''liftport ambassador.'' Apparently, ''liftport'' is the proper term, the corporate euphemism -- for use among polite company, presumably more skeptical about such things -- for ''space elevator.'' ''The physics are the simple part,'' said Smith, who talks with the easy gusto of a practiced booster. ''If you take a rock and tie a string to it and spin it around, it'll stay aloft and won't hit you in the head. It will defy gravity. If you make the string longer, you can spin it slower. And if you make it long enough, you only have to spin it once a day. Know where I'm going?'' His eyes twinkle, and his head quivers ever so slightly as he sees you seeing what he is saying. 
 Smith explained that a space elevator would be a ribbon of high-strength woven carbon nanotubes six feet wide and ''as thin as Saran Wrap.'' The earth's rotation would spin this 60,000-mile-long ribbon just slow enough that it would turn with the earth and maintain a level of tautness such that you could run beam-powered climbers up and down. According to Smith, the ribbon would be anchored on a movable base located at sea on the equator about 1,000 miles west of Ecuador. Occasionally, you'd have to move the base and snap the ribbon, like a towel in a locker room, in order to move it out of the way, just briefly, of the known trajectories of space junk. 
 As improbable as it may initially sound -- the idea originates with Arthur C. Clarke's 1979 novel ''The Fountains of Paradise'' -- the space elevator is another of those things that make the NASA competitions more interesting than what you typically expect from government initiatives. ''NASA is not interested in the space elevator per se,'' said Davidian, the NASA administrator. But he said he is happy the idea is out there if it motivates inventors. NASA's organizer for this contest, the Spaceward Foundation, a nonprofit dedicated to public education about space technology, openly refers to the beam-power competition as the Space Elevator Games. The space elevator is as close as mankind might ever get to a Tower of Babel. And yes, you could ride it like an elevator, with the added benefit that the penthouse stop is one-quarter the distance to the moon. 
 It's another illustration of how these contests could go either way -- is NASA engaging in pioneer thinking or flirting with a 21st-century version of alchemy? In a sense, that's a bureaucrat's question, a bean counter's nit. The inventors -- preoccupied with the minutiae of competitive forces, fund-raising, lazy teammates, conference calls, subduing physics, fugitive Home Depot clerks -- hear a question like that and think, Does it matter?
 The New England Air Museum is made up of several hangars joined on the sides and crammed with fabulous-looking airplanes from across the last century. Off in the corner, by a freestanding Boeing 707 cockpit, a few tourists passing by barely noticed the space-glove competition. Television has ruined competitions like this. The truth is, the contest is visually boring. The much-ballyhooed burst test involves putting the glove over a kind of mop bucket and filling the glove with water until a seam splits and starts leaking water. Sort of cool, but not much of a comparison to ''Jackass,'' ''Fear Factor'' or even a decent water-balloon fight.
 Instead, the moseying tempo of the whole day turned the event into a friendly kaffeeklatsch of engineers who go about the tedious paces of their measurements, as well as the aspiring inventors who, after a while, shed their suspicions and seem happy to trade insights and even some secrets. In the wonderful geeky excitement of the morning, the moments were there. Right away, the three contestants became two: Southern's glove was put over the mop bucket and sprang a leak before it could even qualify. The combat was suddenly the stuff of myth: the Goliaths of Harris and Moiseev versus an unemployed David named Homer. Both teams passed the burst test and the dexterity test. It all rode on the torque measurements of each finger joint, and there was talk that the NASA glove had already been surpassed, suggesting that this afternoon, NASA would have its first Centennial Challenges winner.
 ''Problem solving and invention are greatly simplified when you're asking the right question,'' Homer said from his worktable, ''so the problem that I determined needed solving is how to constrain something while at the same time allow it to move.'' Ready to reveal his eureka moment, he motioned to his glove. Over the space between each knuckle of the fingers, restraint material was stitched in the shape of an X. ''What I did was take strips of painter's tape and wrapped them around my fingers,'' he went on. ''And I figured out that when you put tape around your fingers you can't move your hand.'' Then, at a moment past midnight, Homer stopped running the tape up and down his fingers, or spiraling it around each finger, or any other configuration that seemed obvious. Instead he cross-stitched it between the knuckles and found that when he held his fingers in front of eyes and flexed them, the tape neither buckled nor broke. 
 ''If you have the tape on tight across the top, you can't bend your finger,'' Homer said. ''This pattern of X is actually a longer line on your finger but the line doesn't get any longer or shorter when you flex.'' The painter's tape just stayed where it was, it held its place. ''I could just bend my finger and make a fist and then make it wide open and I couldn't even feel the tape,'' he said. ''It was like it wasn't even there.'' When he tested this design on a glove, he noticed an added benefit -- that the knuckles easily buckled at just the right places, making it even easier to flex the hand. 
 Davidian, the NASA official, had set up his pentatych of promotional material, and there was the cardboard check. The three judges spent most of the day in quiet consideration, occasionally consulting a clipboard. Harris couldn't help waxing historic on the subject of gloves. He talked to a small, attentive audience about how some of the great spacesuit companies represented at the competition got their start in other, related fields. I.L.C. Dover was originally the International Latex Corporation and the makers of the Playtex glove. ''And David Clark Company Inc. came out of brassiere manufacturing,'' Harris said seriously. ''They invented various kinds of bras, and then they got into the pressurized suits. They were in the 'containing garment' business.'' The three of us listening all went ''huh'' at the same time.
 Harris talked about how much of what might have been known about glove technology is lost because all the guys in the early days who improvised their own way to various gloves worn by astronauts never wrote anything down and were fired or retired long ago. And on the Russian side? ''The Russian designers are mostly all dead -- Sharipov, Stoklitsky, Abramov,'' he said, as if their names were as familiar as Armstrong, Aldrin and Collins. He noted that even though Severin did write a book, it's in Russian. ''The Air Force has a translation of it,'' he said, ''but it's a computer translation, and so for 'sleeve' it might say 'pipe.' It's a mess.'' 
 Of his space-glove know-how, Homer said: ''I had to make it up, because there is no book you can buy about this. There is no pattern.'' He added that his past job sewing boat sails helped him the most because everything about gloves comes down to how they are pieced together. A great deal of the space-age glove innovation, Harris and Homer agree, ultimately rests on prehistoric arts. ''Sewing is a primitive technology,'' Harris said. ''It was started some 15,000 years ago when some guy took a bone and pulled a strand of a horse's tail to sew up some skins to keep warm, and here we are using this ancient technology. While this work may be slightly better, it's no quantum leap over previous technology.''
 At the end of the day, Alan Hayes of Volanz Aerospace, the competition's organizer, stood holding the cardboard check. The judges had done their myriad gauge tests and punctiliously recorded, added and averaged the scores. The microphone was passed around to a number of NASA and contest dignitaries, who said kind words about innovation and dealt out thanks promiscuously. ''And now the moment you've all been waiting for,'' Hayes said to a collection of folks slumped, mostly, in three rows of five chairs quickly lined up for the occasion. ''We had three fantastic competitors,'' he continued. Some shuffling among the chairs. ''And before we even give the award, everybody provided something important, and we all learned something.'' There was a herdlike movement among the chairs, possibly expressing a sense of suspense, although maybe it was annoyance. ''One team did win,'' Hayes said finally, ''and I'm proud to say the winner is Peter Homer.'' 
 There was a scattering of applause, and Homer sidled up to take the big check. From the front row of the few chairs, the Russian was confused by his limited language skills, although he did manage to bellow, ''We not win, no?''
 Among the rest of the crowd, the feelings were the same -- actual amazement that anyone could have beat the best of American and Russian glove experience. Yet it's clear that Homer's glove had thrilled the NASA experts present. In exchange for the large cardboard check, the test glove would be flown to Houston and examined by staff experts. Homer's cross-stitched method had actually accomplished something new by discovering a better balance in the tradeoff of competing forces. He had inched glove technology just that little farther distance along -- a real-world achievement, known to the U.S. Patent Office as ''Glove Reinforcement With Reduced Restriction of Movement,'' or Patent Application No. 60/915,444. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Sewing Machine and a Dream: Peter Homer in his workshop/dining room in Southwest Harbor, Me. His design for the space glove was one of three finalists in the NASA contest.
Garage Band: Brian Turner (front) and members of the Kansas City Space Pirates with their ''space climber,'' which is powered in part by the light reflected from closet-door-size mirrors.
 Reaching for the stars: Peter Homer's space-glove design. (Photographs by Jeff Riedel for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SPACE INDUSTRY (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (89%); SPACECRAFT (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (75%); WRITERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007



21 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 5081 words

HEADLINE: The Final Days

BYLINE: By Benjamin Anastas. 
Benjamin Anastas, a novelist, previously wrote for the magazine about Pentecostals.

 BODY:
Steven from Arizona -- a caller on ''Coast to Coast AM'' late one night in February -- had slipped into a future reality and caught a glimpse of the devastation that was coming when the supervolcano under Yellowstone erupted. James in Omaha, on the other hand, was worried about the likelihood of a magnetic pole shift, while Rod from Edmonton had recently spoken to a member of the Canadian Parliament about the global-warming crisis and couldn't believe what he had heard.
''We're coming to an end time beyond anything that anybody has ever imagined,'' Rod said with a trembling urgency. ''The scientists right now, they're not even studying the real causes. The Kyoto treaty and CO2 have nothing to do with anything.'' 
 ''Coast to Coast AM'' is an overnight radio show devoted to what its weekday host, George Noory, calls ''the unusual mysteries of the world and the universe.'' Broadcast out of Sherman Oaks, Calif., and carried nationwide on more than 500 stations as well as the XM Radio satellite network, ''Coast to Coast AM'' is by far the highest-rated radio program in the country once the lights go out. The guest in the wee hours that February morning was Lawrence E. Joseph, the author of ''Apocalypse 2012'' -- billed as ''a scientific investigation into civilization's end'' -- and he came on the air to tell the story of how the ancient Maya looked into the stars and predicted catastrophic changes to the earth, all pegged to the end date of an historical cycle on one of their calendars, Dec. 21, 2012.
 ''My motto tonight,'' Noory intoned at the beginning of the program, ''is be prepared, not scared.'' What followed was a graphic recitation of disaster scenarios for 2012, including hurricanes, earthquakes and volcanic eruptions caused by solar storms, cracks forming in the earth's magnetic field and mass extinctions brought on by nuclear winter. The only hopeful note of the night was struck when an unnamed caller asked Joseph what he thought about recent Virgin Mary apparitions in Bosnia.
 ''I love it,'' the author answered. ''That's positive. You don't need to be a devout Christian to admire the Virgin Mary. She's a blessing to us all.''
 When I reached Noory by phone at his program's studio in California, he told me, ''I'm a staunch believer that we are in an earth cycle.'' As 2012 approaches, ''Coast to Coast'' has been devoting more and more programming to prophecies of doom and the signs and wonders that are thought to be harbingers of the coming end time: U.F.O. sightings, crop-circle formations, disappearing honeybees and flocks of migratory birds that fall from the sky. ''There's no question the planet is changing,'' Noory said. ''And the fact that the Mayans had an end date and their history talks of change, I find that fascinating.''
 But it isn't just on the lower frequencies, late at night, where people are waiting on the Mayan apocalypse. Daniel Pinchbeck, author of the alternative-culture best seller ''2012: The Return of Quetzalcoatl'' -- and a guest on ''Coast to Coast AM'' -- has introduced a young and savvy audience to the school of millenarian thinking that has gathered around Mayan calendrics. To do so, he has employed viral marketing and a tireless schedule of public appearances at bookstores, art spaces, yoga studios and electronic-music festivals. When Pinchbeck appeared on ''The Colbert Report'' last December to promote his book, the host confronted him in front of a life-size manger scene: ''You have been called a new Timothy Leary. Why do we need another one of those?'' 
 Over breakfast at Cafe Gitane in Manhattan, Pinchbeck told me recently that ''there's a growing realization that materialism and the rational, empirical worldview that comes with it has reached its expiration date.'' A youthful 41, with long, drooping hair and heavy-framed designer eyewear, Pinchbeck exudes a languid fervency that is equal parts Jesuit and Jim Morrison. His BlackBerry sat face up on the table, the screen dark, beside his bowl of organic fruit, yogurt and granola. ''Apocalypse literally means uncovering or revealing,'' Pinchbeck went on, ''and I think the process is already under way. We're on the verge of transitioning to a dispensation of consciousness that's more intuitive, mystical and shamanic.'' 
 Far from its origins, divorced from its context and enlisted in a prophetic project that it may never have been designed to fulfill, the Mayan calendar is at the center of an escalating cultural phenomenon -- with New Age roots -- that unites numinous dreams of societal transformation with the darker tropes of biblical cataclysm. To some, 2012 will bring the end of time; to others, it carries the promise of a new beginning; to still others, 2012 provides an explanation for troubling new realities -- environmental change, for example -- that seem beyond the control of our technology and impervious to reason. Just in time for the final five-year countdown, the Mayan apocalypse has come of age. 
 Light and darkness -- heavenly forces and a corrupted earth -- are the twin engines of apocalyptic movements. For Christians awaiting rapture or Shiites counting the days until the Twelfth Imam appears, the trials and injustices of the known world are a prelude for the paradise that we can imagine but can't yet achieve. Judging by the sheer number of predicted end dates that have come and gone without the trumpets blowing and angels rushing in, we are a people impatient to see our world redeemed through catastrophe -- and we are always wrong. Gnostics predicted the imminent arrival of God's kingdom as early as the first century; Christians in Europe attacked pagan territories in the north to prepare for the end of the world at the first millennium; the Shakers believed the world would end in 1792; there was a ''Great Disappointment'' among followers of the Baptist preacher William Miller when Jesus did not return to upstate New York on Oct. 22, 1844. The Jehovah's Witnesses have been especially prodigious with prophetic end dates: 1914, 1915, 1918, 1920, 1925, 1941, 1975 and 1994. Any religious movement with an end-time prophecy is certain to attract followers, no matter how maniacal or fringy (witness the Branch Davidians). For those who want to go online and get the latest tally of bad news, there is a nuclear Doomsday Clock and the Rapture Index. If you remember living through Y2K, that was another millenarian moment -- except our computer systems were redeemed by the same code writers who corrupted them in the first place.
 Who dreams of the apocalypse? Why do they dream of it? Polls indicate that up to 50 percent of Americans believe that the Book of Revelation is a true, prophetic document, meaning they fully expect the predictions of ''Rapture,'' ''Tribulation'' and ''Armageddon'' to be fulfilled. There is a paradox built into end-time theologies in that imminent catastrophe often brings comfort; according to Paul S. Boyer, an authority on prophecy belief in American culture and an emeritus professor of history at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, the apocalypse is an appealing idea because it promises salvation to a select group -- all of whom share secret knowledge -- and a world redeemed and delivered from evil. ''The Utopian dream is a big part of the Western tradition,'' Boyer told me, ''both the religious and secular forms. But the wicked have to be destroyed and evil has to be overcome for the era of righteousness to dawn.'' This is as true in the New Age as much as in any other one. Rumors of global crisis, the distrust of institutional authority, the ready availability of esoteric lore, the existence of individuals drawn to abstruse numerical schemes, the urge to assuage anxieties with dreams of social transformation -- wherever these elements exist, apocalyptic thinking is likely to flourish.
 The year 2012 first entered the public consciousness two decades ago this August with the Harmonic Convergence organized by Jose Arguelles, the author of a number of esoteric books about the Mayan cosmos and his experiences with telepathically received prophecies. With a penchant for promotion going back to the first Whole Earth Festival in 1970, which he organized, Arguelles promoted the convergence as an earth-changing event requiring 144,000 participants -- the number echoed Mayan mathematics and the Book of Revelation -- to free the planet from the dissonant influence of Western science and synchronize with the ''wave harmonic of history'' set to culminate in 2012. Mayan civilization, to Arguelles, was not entirely Mayan: It was originally a ''terrestrial project'' managed by a race of ''galactic masters'' from ''star bases.'' He saw the convergence as a stage, ordained by prophecy, in a march to the end foreseen by the ancient calendar makers: ''Somewhere in that far and distant time, when armies clashed with metal and chemicals released the fire of the Sun, the wonder of Maya would burst again, releasing the mystery and showing the way that marks return among the patterns of the stars.''
 Large crowds, some perhaps oblivious to the apocalyptic undertones of the event, did end up gathering at ''focus locations'' around the world -- Stonehenge, Mount Shasta and Bolinas in California, even Central Park -- and extensive media coverage of the meditating and dancing masses lent Arguelles and his project an eccentric authority. The New Age had discovered its own eschatology -- with a mysterious, mythical people the controlling intelligence -- and 2012 joined the lexicon of ''energies,'' transcendental meditation and crystals. By 1991 Arguelles was popularizing his own calendric system, which he branded Dreamspell, as a corrective to our mechanized time (dismissed, in mathematical shorthand, as ''12:60,'' the ratio of solar months to minutes in an hour). Inspired by the tzolk'in, the 260-day prophetic calendar utilized by the ancient Maya and common throughout Mesoamerica, Dreamspell functions as a daily oracle, replacing linear time with a ''loom of resonances'' that users navigate with a ''galactic signature'' based on the day of their birth. More than just an astrological sign, this signature is a tool for meditation and, as the latest edition of Arguelles's calendar promises, ''your password in fourth-dimensional time.''
 Arguelles, under the aegis of his fief, the Foundation for the Law of Time, has lobbied tirelessly for the universal adoption of his calendar -- now called the 13-Moon 28-day Calendar -- by posting communiques on the Web and arranging audiences with Mayan elders and members of the Vatican. Lately he has been designing large-scale telepathic experiments in conjunction with a Russian laboratory in Novosibirsk and other groups affiliated with his Planet Art Network.
 ''The post-2012 world will be a world of universal telepathy,'' Arguelles wrote me recently from New Zealand, where he has gone to prepare for the transition. Since 1993, when he claims to have received a new prophecy in Hawaii, he has been calling himself Valum Votan, Closer of the Cycle. ''We'll be literally living in a new time,'' Arguelles said, ''by a 13-month, 28-day synchronometer that will facilitate our telepathy by keeping us in harmony with everything all the time. There will be a lot fewer of us, with simple lifestyles, solar technology, garden culture and lots of telepathic communication.'' As for the many who ''have not evolved spiritually enough to know that there are other dimensions of reality,'' Arguelles predicts they will be taken away in ''silver ships.''
 With Arguelles drifting into even more occult realms -- his last book, ''Time and the Technosphere,'' spun elaborate new theories around 9/11 -- he has been supplanted in the New Age conversation by the next generation of Mayan-calendar mystics with their own theories about the coming transition. This new generation does not typically think that space aliens guided the Maya and prides itself on its reverence for Mayan culture and tradition. Carl Johan Calleman, author of ''The Mayan Calendar and the Transformation of Consciousness,'' is a former cancer researcher from Sweden whose calculations have led him to a controversial end date of his own devising: Oct. 28, 2011. As Arguelles's closest spiritual heir in the Mayan-calendar movement, Calleman has been active in promoting a regular mass-meditation event called the Breakthrough Celebration and other more focused projects including the Jerusalem Hug, which gathered 5,000 people around the walls of the Old City on May 21 to harness constructive energies and create a ''cascade of peace.''
 While his interest in 2012 is not exclusively focused on the Mayan calendar, Chet Snow -- a past-lives regression therapist and author from Sedona, Ariz. -- tracks the impending consciousness shift on his Mass Dreams Newsletter, organizes annual crop-circle and sacred-site tours and gathers the disparate camps of the 2012 movement together for conferences devoted to ancient mysteries and the paranormal. 
 When I asked Snow why he thought people were turning to alternative ideas and explanations like the ones espoused at his conferences, he told me the answer was a simple one. ''The pillars of our expectations about the future in the West have started to crumble,'' he said. ''Religion, politics and economics -- none of it is working any more. So when you hear about the ancient Maya and this changeover in 2012 involving solar cycles and astronomical events, you say, 'Huh, maybe I need to connect with that.' ''
 If the Mayan calendar seems like an unlikely timing device for our salvation -- whether it arrives through global catastrophe or telepathic rainbow around the earth -- its animating role in the 2012 phenomenon is entirely consistent with popular notions of the ''mysterious'' Maya that have persisted for over a century. The Maya were just one of the peoples to thrive in Mesoamerica before the Spanish conquest of the 16th century, but the civilization's florescence -- spanning the period called the Maya Classic, between 300 and 900 A.D. -- was especially bright and spectacular. After growing into a loose confederation of rival city-states that spread across the Yucatan peninsula and extended as far as Chiapas in the west and Honduras in the east, the Mayan civilization fell into a rolling decline that ended with the almost complete abandonment of their cities. The so-called Mayan collapse is a continued source of speculation and a major reason why the Maya have captured the imagination of 19th-century travelers, 20th-century archaeologists and generations of popular fantasists who have connected the Maya to everything from intergalactic colonies to the lost island of Atlantis to Teutonic gods from fire-breathing spaceships. The Mayan sites attract small armies of New Age pilgrims every year, hoping to plug into a stone socket of timeless indigenous wisdom; tens of thousands gather for the spring equinox at Chichen ItzA alone to watch the shadow of a snake slither down the steps of the Temple of Kukulcin.
 In the introduction to his book ''Maya Cosmogenesis 2012: The True Meaning of the Maya Calendar End Date,'' John Major Jenkins describes his first visit to Tikal, the vast ruin in the Guatemalan rain forest that thrived as an urban center at the pinnacle of Mayan civilization. Jenkins, perhaps the most lucid figure in the subculture of 2012 prophets, writes of the ''bone-jarring 16-hour bus ride on muddy and dangerous roads'' that carried him to a ''sprawling former metropolis'' of pyramids, palaces, residences, ball-courts and scores of engraved monumental stones, or stelae, decorated with intricate, otherworldly images and hieroglyphs.
 ''Sitting on the stone steps of the Central Acropolis,'' Jenkins recalls, ''I looked around me at the towering sentinels of stone, their upper platforms stretching above the jungle canopy like altars to the stars, and I listened carefully to the wind whisper messages of a far-off time, and of another world.'' 
 Jenkins wasn't the first 22-year-old traveler with spiritual yearnings to encounter the sublime at a Mayan archaeological site, but he is one of the few who has found a life's vocation in the process. As harmonically as Jenkins was struck in Guatemala by the larger mysteries of the Maya, however, it was the calendar that really seized him -- specifically the fact that there were Maya living in the highlands who still followed the same day count as their distant ancestors. (A common misconception is that the Maya ''disappeared'' when their cities emptied; there are six million Maya currently living in the states of Central America, a number far larger than population estimates of Mayan civilization during the Classic period.) 
 ''Here was an unbroken tradition,'' Jenkins told me when I went to visit him at his home in Windsor, Colo., one afternoon in late March. We sat in a pair of lawn chairs in the backyard while a neighbor passed back and forth on a noisy tractor. ''It's a lineage going back 2,000 years,'' he said, oblivious to the racket. Jenkins, now 43, is difficult to distract when talking about the Mayan calendar and 2012. After years of working as a software engineer to support his research and writing books and papers in his spare time, 2012 is now Jenkins' full-time job. Influenced by the work of the pioneering psychedelic writer Terence McKenna -- whose Timewave Zero system, based on computer analysis of the I Ching, also shows history to be culminating on Dec. 21, 2012 -- Jenkins argues that ancient Maya ''calendar priests'' were able to chart a 26,000-year astronomical cycle called ''the precession of the equinoxes'' with the naked eye. He fixed the 2012 end date to coincide with a ''galactic alignment'' of the winter-solstice sun and the axis that modern astonomers draw to bisect the Milky Way, called the galactic equator.
 In the alchemical tradition, Jenkins notes, eclipses signify the ''transcending of the opposites.'' During the period around 2012, Jenkins says, the galaxy will provide the opportunity for the rebirth of creation and a reconciliation of ''infinity and finitude, time and eternity.'' The Maya knew it, and just like an alarm clock, they set their calendar to coincide with the occasion.
 Jenkins and his fellow travelers in the 2012 movement have chosen a particularly arcane source of secret knowledge in Mayan calendrics. The Maya calendar keepers are known to have charted the cycles of the moon, the sun, Mars and Venus with an accuracy that wouldn't be duplicated until the modern era. Like most premodern societies, the Maya conceived of history not as the linear passage of time but as a series of cycles -- they called them ''world age cycles'' -- that would repeat over and over. To capture these cycles, the Maya employed what scholars call the long-count calendar, a five-unit computational system extending forward and backward from their mythical creation day, which is calculated to have fallen on either Aug. 11, 3114 B.C. or Aug. 13, 3114 B.C. All the current hoopla is due to the mathematical fact that the current world-age cycle on the long count, which began in Aug. 3114 B.C., is about to reach its end, 5,126 years later, on a date given in scholarly notation as 13.0.0.0.0 -- which falls, not quite exactly, on Dec. 21, 2012. Enter the apocalypse. 
 I asked Jenkins how he viewed the passing of one world-age cycle into another in December 2012, and he paused. It was a little bit like asking a seismologist what he thinks about earthquakes. As much as Jenkins has made a place for himself in the 2012 discussion through his independent research on the Maya and precession, he has made an even greater impact by applying academic rigor to the theories of his contemporaries and exposing, in his books and on an extensive Web site, their inconsistencies with established Mayanist scholarship. Jenkins was the first to reveal a major flaw in the synchronization between Arguelles's Dreamspell and the Mayan day count, and he has been involved in an extensive, long-distance feud with Calleman since 2001 over their differing approaches to interpreting the Maya and over Calleman's belief that the end time will be in 2011, not 2012. When I first spoke to Jenkins on the phone, he told me, ''I think of myself as leading the charge for clarity and discernment.'' 
 ''2012 is such a profound archetype,'' Jenkins went on. ''Here we are five and a half years before the date, and already there's so much interest. Personally, I think it's about transformation and renewal. It's certainly nothing as simplistic as the end of the world.''
 But what about the connection many people see between the approach of 2012 and environmental crisis? I asked. What about the popular link between the Maya and end-time prophecy? 
 ''A lot of people are talking about apocalypse right now,'' he said, ''but there's a deeper meditation that can and should happen around the end date.'' Jenkins -- bearded, in a T-shirt and jeans -- is originally from Chicago, and traces of a flat Midwestern accent remain in his voice. He looked and sounded beleaguered by the mention of apocalypse. ''At any end-beginning nexus -- at the dawn of a new religion or a spiritual tradition -- you have this amazing opening,'' he said. ''Revelations come down. There's a fresh awareness of what it means to be alive in the full light of history.'' 
 To scholars monitoring the 2012 movement from their posts in academia -- and some do -- this latter-day apotheosis of the Mayan calendar is a source of frustration and an opportunity for deeper reflection. Or sometimes, just an opportunity. Anthony Aveni, an archeoastronomer and professor at Colgate, has a history with 2012 going back to the Harmonic Convergence, when he was interviewed on CNN to provide some perspective. ''I got an offer from a literary agent to represent me the same day,'' he told me. ''So I'm grateful to Jose Arguelles for that.'' 
 Aveni is critical of Jenkins's approach and his galactic-alignment theory. ''I defy anyone to look up into the sky and see the galactic equator,'' he said. ''You need a radio telescope for that, and they were not known anywhere in the world that I've heard of until the 1930s.'' The real question, to him, is how an obscure, culturally circumscribed issue like the end date of one Mayan long-count cycle could manage to gain such traction in the wider world. 
 ''Jenkins and Calleman and Arguelles are the Gnostics of our time,'' Aveni said. ''They're seeking higher knowledge. They look for knowledge framed in mystery. And there aren't many mysteries left, because science has decoded most of them.''
 John Hoopes, an archaeologist at the University of Kansas, is more complimentary of Jenkins's research, even if he doubts the validity of his major conclusions, including the galactic-alignment theory. ''John Jenkins has done his homework on the ancient Maya,'' he told me, ''and he's thought about their culture a great deal. Arguelles and Calleman largely disregard what we know the Maya believed.'' Still, like most Mayan experts, Hoopes is not convinced that the Maya would have considered the end of a world cycle to be an apocalyptic event; one cycle could be subsumed into the next without a hiccup in the system, let alone a rupture in the count of days.
 In the wider discussion around 2012, Hoopes sees a parallel to the debate going on in Kansas about teaching evolution and intelligent design in the public schools. It is an issue he takes so seriously that he has included the 2012 phenomenon in a course he developed called ''Archaeological Myths and Realities,'' which explores how science and history are manipulated to serve a religious or political agenda. Other examples include Nazi archaeology and the recently heralded ancient ''pyramids'' in Bosnia. Referrring to occult interpretations of the Maya, he says: ''What's interesting is how this fosters community in the New Age movement, and elsewhere, the same way that the anti-evolutionists have coalesced around intelligent design. I've started using the terms 'religious right' and 'spiritual left.' ''
 Toward the end of my visit with Jenkins in Colorado, we drove from his home in Windsor to Denver -- about 50 miles south -- to meet his wife, Ellen, for dinner and a screening of ''2012: The Odyssey,'' a documentary that Jenkins appears in along with Jose Arguelles and other authorities on 2012. Jenkins had written me a long, discouraged e-mail message that morning about an item he found on an academic message board, linking to an article about 2012 from USA Today. The article included a description of Jenkins's galactic-alignment theory without citing him as the source, and to make matters worse, the scholar who posted the link quoted a description of the galactic alignment and asked, ''Anyone want to speculate about what this means?'' 
 To Jenkins, it was further confirmation that his work is generally ignored inside a scholarly community that he has looked to for guidance and cited tirelessly in defense of the ''authentic'' Mayan tradition. He told me, as we drove past new housing developments going up where pastures had once been, that he had gone to conferences to meet the most important Mayanists and had been sending out papers and links to his Web site to selected scholars for years, but his attempts at making contact were usually ignored.
 ''When you fund your own trip to do fieldwork by putting it on MasterCard,'' he said, ''and then they really don't want to engage in a discussion with you, it's kind of like ... wrong universe, I guess.''
 I asked him if he thought this might have something to do with some of his more speculative theories, like his assertion that the Maya had practiced pranayama -- yogic deep breathing -- based on the posture of Maya kings in certain paintings and carvings, which appears similar to full lotus.
 ''It's the assemblage of evidence that leads to my reading,'' he insisted. ''It's not magically projecting something onto the images. But ultimately there is some guesswork involved. How often can you be 100 percent sure of anything?''
 By the time we drove up to the Oriental Theater in the Berkeley Highlands section of Denver, his spirits had lifted again. The Oriental is a handsome, Persian-themed theater from the 1920s that has recently been refurbished after a long decline; it retains elements of both the glamour of its distant past and the seediness left over from its middle age as an adult theater. Now the Oriental is an arts center with a regular schedule of film screenings and live entertainment.
 ''Look at that,'' Jenkins said with a gesture at the marquee, making sure that I saw the big ''2012'' in black numerals.
 While Jenkins mingled with the early arrivals inside the lobby, I sat at a cafe table with his wife, a social worker at a hospital in Boulder, and Gina Kissell, director of the Metaphysical Research Society, a local group that offers workshops and programs in comparative religion and spirituality. The society was a sponsor of the screening that night, and Kissell, an ebullient woman in a sequined top, was thrilled about the turnout. I asked her about 2012 and what it meant to her, and she started in without hesitating:
 ''To me it's all about a movement toward enlightenment. We say compassion over competition. This whole shift in consciousness is going to wipe away everything negative. Armageddon isn't what it used to be, you know?'' Kissell told me that she had recently tried spending 21 days without having a negative thought: ''It's really hard! I tried, but I didn't make it through the second week.''
 Inside the theater, it was a festive scene. The seating sections were all full except for the balcony; a pair of waitresses roamed the aisles taking drink and sandwich orders (the Oriental has a full bar and panini menu); and the crowd presented a mix of the buttoned-down and the Bohemian, trending toward the tattooed and pierced. Ellen flashed me a proud look when Jenkins climbed onstage to give an introduction, and he was met with a lively burst of applause. Dressed in a well-worn jacket over a faded T-shirt, he could have been a professor who never quite recovered from his graduate-school years. Jenkins started by giving a primer of his theory about the galactic alignment and how the ancient Maya had calibrated their long-count calendar to coincide with this rare and transformative astronomical event. He shared his belief, reflected in the mantra ''As above, so below,'' that our lives are influenced by larger forces in the universe and that the Mayan sky watchers had used their sacred science to read the stars and divine creation's deepest secrets. These same secrets can be ours, according to Jenkins's theory, if we cup a hand to one ear, raise it to the sky and listen. 
 ''A lot of people ask me if the world is going to end in 2012,'' he said, ''and I've come up with the best way to address that. The short answer is yes. The long answer is no.''
 Writing in the forward to Jenkins's ''Maya Cosmogenesis 2012,'' Terrence McKenna proffers that ''we, by choice or design, actually live in the end time anticipated by the ancient Maya shaman-prophets. Their bones and their civilization have long since gone into the Gaian womb that claims all the children of time. Indeed, their cities were ghostly necropoleis by the time the Spanish conquerors first gazed upon them, 500 years ago. Yet it was our time that fascinated the Maya, and it was toward our time that they cast their ecstatic gaze, though it lay more than two millennia in the future at the time the first long-count dates were recorded.''
 It is a splendid, human-size dream, that an ancient people revered for unearthly wisdom could climb aboard a calendar ship and redeem us from our troubled world and the confines of our vexing natures. Dec. 21, 2012, is already here -- long before the date arrives -- and perhaps it has always been. End dates are not the stuff of fantasy, after all; each and every one of us has a terminal appointment inscribed in our calendars. And the end might just arrive sooner. Perhaps that is why we need to imagine a supernatural force with one eye on a ticking clock, waiting to make everything new again. 
 It is the Maya who bring us apocalypse this time, and when the next one comes -- well, we'll just have to wait and see if the world is still here. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Major Jenkins: The approaching end date is an 'amazing opening.' (Photograph by Jill Greenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (77%); CLIMATOLOGY (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); WEATHER (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); WRITERS (69%); SATELLITE RADIO (68%); RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (68%); GLOBAL WARMING (56%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (51%)

COMPANY: XM SATELLITE RADIO HOLDINGS INC (55%); XM SATELLITE RADIO INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (55%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ALBERTA, CANADA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007



22 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2122 words

HEADLINE: The $3.6 Million Mortgage

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
SETH WEINSTEIN is not a guy who likes to run a tab.
 He has only two credit cards -- one for his personal use and one for business -- and he says he pays them in full each month. He even wrote a check the last time he bought a car, a white Volvo convertible.
 But Mr. Weinstein, who for nearly the last 30 years has developed office buildings and condominiums in the New York area, and who seems to be allergic to the idea of accumulating debt, was approved for a $3.6 million mortgage last month for the $4 million condominium he is buying at the Century at 25 Central Park West. 
 The loan is a two-year floating-rate mortgage that will carry payments of roughly $24,000 a month at what he estimates will be an interest rate of 8 percent through the term of the loan. He plans to refinance in two years after making some renovations on the apartment. 
 Mr. Weinstein chose the condominium over a similar co-op apartment, where the limit on his mortgage would have been $2 million. He said he wanted to use as little of his own money as possible to buy the apartment, preferring to invest it in Connecticut real estate, where he expects the returns to be 25 percent. 
 ''It's not the case that I'm cavalier about debt,'' Mr. Weinstein said. ''I can make a much better return on that in my business.''
 More lenders are targeting overqualified borrowers like Mr. Weinstein as the next frontier for growth in the troubled mortgage industry. As the national housing market continues to suffer and lenders grow more cautious about approving mortgages for home buyers with anything less than sterling credit, they are opening their coffers to Manhattan's wealthiest buyers, who might not need any financial help.
 High-end buyers, even those who are flush with money from Wall Street bonuses or the real estate boom, are flooding banks with requests for huge mortgages so that they can keep up with the escalating prices for multi-million-dollar apartments.
 ''I've seen more $10 million mortgages in the past 6 months than in the past 10 years,'' said Melissa Cohn, the president of Manhattan Mortgage Inc. ''We have the new breed of buyers who are buying real estate for investments and consider leverage to be part of that ongoing investment.''
 Most of these new borrowers take the mammoth monthly payments in stride because mortgages are now one of the cheapest forms of debt. 
 Keith Kantrowitz, the president of Power Express Mortgage Bankers in Lake Success, N.Y., said that the average mortgage requested by his borrowers in Manhattan has nearly tripled in the last two years to about $4 million, up from $1.45 million. Mr. Kantrowitz is currently arranging interest-only mortgages for four borrowers in Manhattan, each for $30 million or more, for two apartments and two town houses they want to buy or refinance. 
 On the flip side, mortgage brokers say that more banks are increasing the amounts they will lend to Manhattan buyers because apartment prices and sales have remained strong. Jeffrey Appel, a senior vice president and the director of new development financing at the Preferred Empire Mortgage Company, a brokerage based in New York, said that he had seen a 20 percent increase in multi-million-mortgages in Manhattan in the past year.
 Mr. Appel said lenders that are willing to write large mortgages include UBS, Thornburg Mortgage, Countrywide Mortgage and JPMorgan Chase. For some clients, Thornburg will finance up to $1.8 million on a $2.25 million apartment and up to $5.5 million on $9.2 million houses. Banks that once required buyers to put down half for an $11 million house now require only $3.5 million, Mr. Appel said.
 Depending on a borrower's net worth and financial background, Mr. Appel said, lenders are often willing to finance 10 to 20 percent more than their guidelines dictate, provided that the mortgage is less than 80 percent of the house's value. This has resulted in a vast increase in the amount of allowable debt. ''All of these banks are willing to evaluate exceptions on a case-by-case basis,'' he said. 
 Lenders are eagerly financing these multi-million-dollar mortgages because they are trying to make up for declines in nearly all other segments of the mortgage market, said Robert D. Manning, director of the center for consumer financial services at the Rochester Institute of Technology and the author of ''Credit Card Nation'' (Basic Books 2000). The broader mortgage market has been suffering because lenders have financed so many aggressive mortgages for subprime borrowers and have tightened their requirements for all borrowers who do not have blue-ribbon credit scores or big incomes. 
 Lenders have also had a harder time lately packaging and selling off most kinds of mortgages as bonds. As borrowers have defaulted and home sales across the nation in the middle and low price ranges have been slow, the bonds have lost some value. 
 But at the same time prices for luxury apartments have remained strong in Manhattan. So banks find that extra-large mortgages made by wealthy borrowers are more attractive to package and resell, Mr. Manning said. 
 ''The banks are hurting because the middle-class market has been hurt so much that they're desperately looking for new markets,'' Mr. Manning said. ''This is a much more profitable product for the bank.''
 At the same time, New Yorkers have also been buying more condominiums, which allow for smaller down payments (and larger mortgages) than co-ops do. For example, 49 percent of the sales in Manhattan in the first three months of 2007 were condominiums, compared with 38 percent during the corresponding period five years ago, according to data from the Miller Samuel appraisal company. Co-ops generally require buyers to put down at least 20 percent of the purchase price; condominiums require as little as 5 percent.
 When it comes to condos, ''there is no third party telling people what they can and can't finance,'' Mr. Appel said.
 Mortgage brokers and psychologists agree that multi-million-dollar mortgages mark a major shift away from the historical stigma that carrying a lot of debt used to hold, especially among the very rich.
 ''Years ago, financing was looked down upon,'' said Mr. Kantrowitz, the mortgage banker. ''A Rockefeller would write a check. Now it's accepted.''
 Michael Morris, the head of a social intelligence program at Columbia's business school and a professor in Columbia's psychology department, said that historically, Americans often associated living debt free with economic success and even wholeness. 
 ''In a traditional mind-set, there was a moralistic status to having paid off your home,'' Professor Morris said. ''It was part of the American dream to have paid off your house.''
 But David Strause, a mortgage banker in the Manhattan branch of Countrywide Home Loans, a division of the mortgage company, said that the wealthy buyers he had seen in the last four months had no qualms about taking out large mortgages. He said that such borrowers were typically male, aged 30 to 45, working in finance or real estate and making around $1 million a year. He has found that buyers in their early 30s borrow most aggressively.
 His clients include an investment banker who bought a $1.94 million apartment on the West Side with a $1.75 million mortgage, an entrepreneur who bought a $4 million apartment near Madison Square Park with a $3.4 million mortgage, and a 32-year-old hedge-fund executive who bought a $1.5 million apartment in the same neighborhood with a $1.35 million mortgage. 
 Mr. Strause said these buyers were generally not concerned that there is a ceiling of $1.1 million on the amount of mortgage interest that is deductible on federal income taxes each year.
 He said these borrowers plan to plow the money they might put into a house or apartment into the stock market, where they hope to earn 20 percent returns.
 ''They buy the biggest property they can afford, they leverage to the max, and they assume that their careers are on track,'' he said. ''A lot of these people tend to think that they are smarter than the banks and they have a better use for the money than put it into real estate.''
 But giving the superrich increased access to borrowed money has raised eyebrows across the rest of the lending market. Mr. Manning of the Rochester Institute of Technology points out that it has become far easier in the wake of the subprime crisis for a wealthy Wall Street executive to get a loan than for anyone else in the home-buying market. 
 ''There's no problem with rich people getting loans as long as other people aren't disadvantaged in the process,'' he said. ''Are we entering a new Gilded Age where there's just a new set of rules for the rich?''
 Larry Goldstone, the president of Thornburg Mortgage, a real estate investment trust and jumbo mortgage specialist in Santa Fe, N.M., said that the average mortgage his company made in Manhattan in the first three months of 2007 was $1.19 million, compared with $1 million in 2005. The borrowers are often baby boomers, he said. In fact, Thornburg's average borrower is 47 years old.
 ''The baby-boomer generation is a generation that is increasingly comfortable with having a mortgage and borrowing money against their real estate,'' he said. ''I would much rather have my money in other investments as opposed to paying off my mortgage.''
 That's just the way Mr. Weinstein, the developer, sees it. He watched his parents, who grew up during the Depression, approach buying homes far more conservatively, putting down as much cash as possible. 
 ''My parents were concerned about debt,'' he said. ''I could afford to put down more money, and I could afford to pay off the mortgage at any time I choose. My cash has more value to me to invest in my company than to let sit fallow in a home.''
 Mr. Weinstein has found that his own development projects have been fueled by borrowers who share his views: first-time buyers and baby boomers. He said that buyers at the four condominium projects he and several partners have developed in Connecticut have requested mortgages ranging from 75 to 90 percent. 
 He said that leverage gives first-time buyers the ability to ''improve their lifestyle'' by breaking into home ownership with small down payments, and empty nesters have the ''psychological security'' of holding on to their cash.
 Taking out a large mortgage enabled Dominique Guenot to buy and decorate an apartment in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, before he was ready to sell two properties he owns in France. Mr. Guenot, a 54-year-old business developer for Oracle, moved to New York City three years ago from France, where most of his assets were locked up in a house in a Paris suburb and a small factory in another suburb, Marne-la-Vallee. 
 In March, he moved into a $1.25 million two-bedroom apartment at 55 Bury Street in Williamsburg after taking out a $1 million mortgage and a $125,000 home-equity loan. His monthly mortgage payments are $5,500 and his original monthly home-equity loan payment was $800. 
 In France, ''I would have never been able to get this amount of money at the rate I have,'' he said. ''Here, I have found that they have been much more flexible.''
 Now he is figuring out what to do with his cash. First, he paid off about $90,000 of the home-equity loan and hopes to pay off the remainder by September. Then he took about $40,000 from savings to decorate his apartment and to install an irrigation system on his rooftop terrace, where he grows tomatoes and herbs. He intends to buy a new sofa and shades for his living room, which has a wall of windows.
 He plans to sell his real estate in France eventually, but he is taking his time. ''There is no rush for me to sell my property in France,'' he said, and the loans he took out in New York '' gave me the flexibility to sell at the price I can find at the right time.'' 
 Mr. Guenot's approach mirrors what many buyers are doing in Williamsburg. Roughly three-quarters of the buyers in Mr. Guenot's 45-unit building took out 90 percent mortgages, according to Christine Blackburn, a Prudential Douglas Elliman broker who handled the building's sales. 
 She said that many new buyers in Williamsburg work in the financial industry and pay off chunks of their large mortgages when they receive bonuses. She said that most buyers prefer to hold on to their cash and use it for enjoying life after logging long hours at work. 
 ''It's going into lifestyle,'' she said. ''They can enjoy themselves. They can get a summer share in the Hamptons. The thought that you should have everything go into your down payment is very disturbing to New Yorkers.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: JUMBO MORTGAGE -- Seth Weinstein, a real estate developer, was approved last month for a $3.6 million mortgage on the $4 million condominium he is buying at the Century, below, at 25 Central Park West. (Photographs by Michael Falco for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
BORROWERS AND LENDERS -- Dominique Guenot, left, took out a $1 million mortgage on his $1.25 million two-bedroom condo in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. (Michael Falco for The New York Times)(pg. 10)
 Keith Kantrowitz, right, is the president of Power Express Mortgage Bankers in Lake Success, N.Y. (Uli Seit for The New York Times)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); APPROVALS (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



23 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: The Shelf Life Of Bliss

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS. 
Reporting was contributed by Abby Ellin, Carolyn Marshall, Kayleen Schaefer and Stacey Stowe.

 BODY:
FORGET the proverbial seven-year itch. 
 Not to disillusion the half million or so June brides and bridegrooms who were just married, but new research suggests that the spark may fizzle within only three years. 
 Researchers analyzed responses from two sets of married or cohabitating couples: one group was together for one to three years, the other for four to six years.
 While the researchers could not pinpoint a precise turning point -- the seven-year itch, as popularized in the play and film about errant husbands, was largely a theory -- they found distinct differences between the groups. 
 ''We know the earlier ones are happier,'' said Prof. Kelly Musick, a University of Southern California sociologist. ''The initial boost that marriage seems to provide fades over time.'' 
 Research also showed that the median duration of first marriages that end in divorce remains a little more than seven years, which means that those couples will likely spend more than half their married lives less happy than they were when they cut the first slice of wedding cake. 
 ''Some folks start getting less happy at the wedding reception,'' said Larry Bumpass, a professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, who wrote the study with Professor Musick.
 Is there a three-year itch? 
 ''There is not necessarily anything magical about year three,'' Professor Musick said. ''We know that typically when marriages end in divorce, half end before seven or so years and half end after. This is the same idea.''
 Their analysis, which included unmarried, cohabitating partners but not gay couples, was based on the National Survey of Families and Households, a national 
 sample of 9,637 racially diverse households conducted by the University of Wisconsin Center for Demography and Ecology. The research, coupled with a survey released today by the Pew Research Center, provides an intriguing look at an ethereal part of marriage. Everyone knows the first blush of love is the strongest, but measuring how long it will last and whether that bliss is unique to marriage has always fallen more into the category of ''here's what my mother says'' than something quantifiable.
 In an academic paper they completed last year that analyzed earlier findings from the national surveys, Professors Musick and Bumpass compared responses to questions about how couples described their relationships, how often they fought and over what, and how they would envision their lives if they separated. 
 The research doesn't address whether blissful 21st-century relationships are any more or less enduring than they were in the 20th century, so it may be that happy coupledom always came with a three-year expiration date. With nonmarital childbearing more common and women more economically independent, ''What's keeping people together is their love and commitment for each other,'' Professor Musick said, ''and that's fragile.'' 
 Anecdotal evidence suggests that the findings have some foundation. 
 Bart Blasengame, a 33-year-old freelance writer from Portland, Ore., was with his former fiancee for three years. ''I felt like, by year three, we were both forcing it,'' he recalled. 
 ''It's the whole cliche of pursuit,'' he said. ''Your dates are planned out like some Drew Barrymore romantic comedy with unicorns and rainbows. By year two, we were cruising along, living together, relatively happy. But from a growth standpoint things had started to atrophy. We were happy, content is a better word, but there was no spark.''
 But the evolving rules of marriage provide both opportunities and pitfalls, Professor Musick said. ''There may be greater potential to find fulfillment in relationships,'' she said, ''but that possibility and the expectations that come from it may lead to greater disappointment for some'' if the expectations aren't fulfilled. 
 Her bleak statistical assessment of the durability of enchantment is one of several new findings about relationships and marriage in America. In a word, the State of the Unions is precarious. 
 Even with the nation's population increasing, the number of married Americans age 21 to 54 has declined slightly since 2000 -- apparently for the first time, as measured by the Census Bureau. In the first decade of the 21st century, the proportion of Americans in every racial and ethnic group who were never married has continued to grow by double digits.
 The United States is far from embracing Europe's postmarriage model or its much higher rates of nonmarital births. Most Americans surveyed this year by the Pew center, in fact, still say marriage is an ideal, if a more elusive one.
 While roughly 9 in 10 American adults eventually marry, the time they spend married has declined sharply, in part because they are marrying later and living longer as widows. Moreover, the Pew survey found that 79 percent of Americans say a woman can lead a complete and happy life if she remains single. The comparable figure for men was 67 percent. 
 While married couples generally say they are more satisfied with their lives, younger adults are far less likely to stigmatize alternatives such as living together and having children out of wedlock, according to the Pew telephone survey of 2,020 adults, which is available at www.pewresearch.org. 
 The Pew survey found that nearly half of Americans in their 30s and 40s have cohabitated. Among all adults, a minority (44 percent) said that living together without getting married was bad for society (only 10 percent said it was a good thing), although the Pew survey concluded that ''by providing an alternative to marriage, cohabitation for some appears to diminish rather than strengthen the impulse to legally marry.'' 
 In general, married people are presumed to be happier and better off, but Professor Bumpass, who found that most marriages nowadays are preceded by cohabitation, and Professor Musick questioned whether those benefits were unique to marriage and whether they are stable over time. 
 ''We conclude that the boundaries between marriage and cohabitation may become increasingly blurred,'' Professor Musick said. 
 As for the three-year itch, Byron Lester, a 49-year-old information technology administrator from Bloomfield, Conn., is well suited to consider it. Married three years and two months ago, he said the secret to success is often in the details. ''Little things really do mean a lot,'' he said.
 Mr. Lester said he abandoned his cherished newspaper reading during dinner because that is when his wife most enjoys conversation. ''And I think she's adapted to watching more sports,'' he said.
 Marriage rates vary widely by race, ethnicity, education, income (63 percent of white women over 18 who make more than $100,000 are married; 25 percent of poor black women are). Soaring divorce rates have leveled off, most experts agree, but one reason may be that the dissolution of live-in relationships are not taken into account. 
 Raoul Felder, the celebrity divorce lawyer whose favorite aphorism is that marriage is the first step on the road to divorce, says marital longevity has fallen victim to the velocity of our souped-up society. 
 ''We're all addicted to a television-clicker lifestyle,'' he said.
 But a dissipation of that all-enveloping rapture is no reason to give up on a relationship, many people insist. 
 ''At times, sure, I'm bored,'' said Sean Meehan, 51, a therapist from West Hartford who has been married for 14 years. ''Who isn't? But you talk about it with your spouse and you can switch things up.''
 ''People are so used to everything being disposable,'' he said. ''They throw out diapers, lighters, coffee cups, so they can throw out a marriage.''
 Dr. Ruth Westheimer, the sex adviser, cautioned, too, that the notion of a three-year itch can become self-fulfilling. ''How dangerous it is to say something like that,'' she said. ''From now on, everyone who's getting married will say it will last three years and then I will have to look for someone else.'' 
 Or, as Paul D. Neuthaler, a divorce mediator in Westchester, said: ''The fizzle tends to bubble out within a three- to five-year period when the basis for the marriage was purely physical or related to some attraction not closely associated with each partner's essential character.''
 Another new study, by Prof. Evelyn Lehrer of the University of Illinois at Chicago, contradicts the chestnut that women who marry later are more likely to divorce. She found that with both men and women marrying later than ever, later marriages seem to last longer.
 Stephanie Coontz, director of and public education at the Council on Contemporary Families, a research group, said: ''We're getting close to a 180-degree turn in many of the rules about what makes marriage work and not work. The marriages of college-educated couples are becoming more stable.'' 
 Professor Musick is happily married herself -- ''mostly,'' she says -- and will celebrate her third anniversary this fall. ''My honeymoon,'' she mused, ''is almost over.''
 Whatever the trends, marriage and relationships are in an unusual state of flux, as they were for baby boomers. With so much room to maneuver, younger couples have fewer firm markers to guide them. 
 In the film ''Knocked Up,'' Ben beseeches his father for advice after his one-night stand results in a pregnancy. 
 ''I've been divorced three times,'' his father replies. ''Why are you asking me?''

GRAPHIC: Photo: BYE-BYE HAPPINESS Vince Vaughn and Jennifer Aniston's live-in relationship turns sour in ''The Break-Up.'' (Photograph by Photofest) Chart: (Sources: Analysis of census data by Queens College Department of Sociology
 Pew Research Center) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); FAMILY (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%)

PERSON: VINCE VAUGHN (55%); JENNIFER ANISTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (55%) WISCONSIN, USA (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



24 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: Your Debt May Become My Advantage

BYLINE: By NORM ALSTER

 BODY:
PRIVATE equity firms have been spending billions of dollars to buy up public companies, and there have been clear beneficiaries. Foremost among them are the shareholders of companies acquired at rich prices, and the private equity firms themselves -- which often treat themselves to special dividends from the acquired firms and then flip them back to the public at a tidy profit. 
 But there is another, less obvious class of beneficiaries from the private equity splurge -- rival companies that go head to head in the marketplace with businesses that are laden with debt as a result of leveraged buyouts.
 That, at least, is the conclusion of several academics and some Wall Street analysts, who have found that onerous interest payments tend to have some unpleasant consequences for the acquired companies, including cutbacks in staffing, capital spending, research and other important areas. These cuts give rivals with better net cash flow a significant competitive advantage -- a factor worthy of consideration by stock and bond investors. 
 The financial pressures arising from leveraged buyouts could cause problems in a variety of businesses, from supermarkets to technology companies and casinos. 
 Supermarkets that have taken on debt in such deals tend to raise the prices of the products that line their shelves, according to Judith A. Chevalier, the William S. Beinecke professor of finance and economics at the Yale School of Management. ''If an L.B.O. raises prices, that's good news for rivals,'' Professor Chevalier said. Competitors can either lower prices to gain market share or raise prices along with the leveraged company to pad their own margins, she said.
 Last June, in a deal echoing the late 1980s supermarket buyouts, a group led by the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management and SuperValu, the supermarket chain based in Minneapolis bought out Albertsons supermarkets for more than $17 billion. The bulk of the Albertsons stores went to SuperValu, which competes with Safeway, Kroger, Wal-Mart and other food retailers. Three days after the deal closed, Standard & Poor's dropped SuperValu's credit rating four full notches, from BBB, a low investment-grade rating, to BB-, in junk bond territory.
 The new financial pressures on SuperValu resulting from the deal were not limited to the new debt load.
 ''The stores SuperValu acquired through Albertsons are older than the Kroger and Safeway stores, on average, and will require meaningful capital investment,'' said Stella Kapur, a credit analyst at S.& P. ''Only 65 percent of the acquired stores have been remodeled within the last seven years.'' The Kroger and Safeway chains also carry less debt than SuperValu, she said. 
 Both Kroger and Safeway are playing their cards close, declining to discuss their strategies for competing with leveraged rivals like SuperValu. But they might want to consult new research on a 1980s supermarket buyout wave to devise a playbook. David A. Matsa, associate professor of finance at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University, found that bought-out supermarkets of that era were more likely to run out of merchandise -- the industry term is stock-outs -- than were conventionally financed rivals. Maintaining adequate inventory can be expensive, and leveraged companies often choose to cut back, he said. But there is a competitive cost. 
 ''Clearly, stock-outs are bad,'' Mr. Matsa said. ''They might alienate consumers. And that would advantage rivals.''
 Another factor is that debt levels have been rising in recent deals in a variety of industries, said Nicholas D. Riccio, principal credit analyst at S.& P. As a result, he said, companies in recent buyouts can be more vulnerable to sudden and unexpected revenue shortfalls. 
 This is what happened at Freescale Semiconductor just months after a consortium of private equity buyers led by the Blackstone Group acquired it for $17.6 billion last year. Motorola's cellphone unit has been Freescale's biggest customer, but in April Freescale reported that surprisingly ''weak demand'' had resulted in a decline in sales to Motorola. Freescale has since announced layoffs and spending cuts, reducing capital expenditures to 7 percent of sales from 9 percent.
 This could be a boon to Freescale's rivals in the wireless chip business, said Doug Freedman, a senior analyst at American Technology Research. ''I wouldn't be surprised if, as a result, guys like Infineon, Texas Instruments and Qualcomm benefit, ''Mr. Freedman said. Freescale may curb investment in its wireless chip business or even sell it, he added, in either case presenting opportunities to rivals. 
 In putting together ever bigger deals with ever more burdensome debt, private equity buyers look for targets with ultrapredictable cash flow. It's little wonder that casinos -- which have the luxury of programming their coin-gobbling slots to ensure that the house always wins in the long run -- have emerged as prime buyout targets. Notable deals include the $17.2 billion acquisition, still pending regulatory approval, of Harrah's Entertainment by Apollo Management and the Texas Pacific Group, and the planned $6.1 billion buyout of Penn National Gaming, announced on June 15, by Centerbridge Partners and the Fortress Investment Group. 
 One question overhanging casino deals is how they might affect the ability of newly leveraged gambling operators to expand -- especially internationally -- in a time of multiplying opportunities. David Katz, executive director of gaming, lodging and leisure equities at CIBC World Markets, says that in the casino industry ''the guys generating growth have invested in it.'' Already, he added, the industry's ''capital spending plans are at the high end of the historic range.'' 
 Singapore, Thailand, the Philippines, South Korea, India, South Africa and Spain are all potential expansion targets, for American-based casinos, said Wahid Chammas, senior research analyst at Janus Capital.
 Could a leveraged business like Harrah's pursue such potential opportunities? ''There are question marks around Harrah's right now,'' said Dan Ahrens, portfolio manager of the Ladenburg Thalmann Gaming and Casino fund. ''Future deals, future growth plans -- how aggressive can they be?'' For example, he said, ''there's talk of casinos being legalized in Japan; it's unknown whether Harrah's would have interest.'' 
 Alberto Lopez, a Harrah's spokesman, would not comment on potential changes in capital spending plans but said that Harrah's was moving ahead with several previously announced projects, including the $700 million Margaritaville Casino and Resort in Biloxi, Miss. 
 ANOTHER area where leveraged casinos might need to cut back is in promotions -- anything from coupons to ''comped'' rooms, drinks and entertainment. In Las Vegas, at scattered sites off of the Strip, a major player is Station Casinos, which was taken private last February. In running these mostly smaller casinos, which have traditionally appealed to area residents, a major rival is the relatively unleveraged Boyd Gaming. Boyd could benefit if debt-laden casinos both on and off the Strip cut back on their promotions, several analysts said. Boyd could then save on promotions itself or discount aggressively to win new business. 
 The biggest advantage of low-debt rivals may simply be that they keep the flexibility to take on added debt selectively, Mr. Chammas said. 
 ''Are low-leverage companies in the casino industry at an advantage? My answer is yes,'' he said. ''But they have to embrace leverage -- prudently.'' They may, for example, ''wring cash'' out of real estate by borrowing against specific properties or selling them outright, retaining management rights. ''The real estate allows you to take money out of property and reinvest it,'' he said. 
 Of course, not even the casino industry is immune to the risks of rising interest rates, overbuilding or, as some have long feared, a terrorist attack. But the virtual absence of house risk at the roulette tables and slots appears to have encouraged a growing appetite for risk on the balance sheet. Companies with less leverage have a greater ability to take on new debt, and risks, of their own choosing. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Red Rock in Las Vegas. The resort's owner, Station Casinos, was acquired by a private equity group in February and is a major player at several sites off of the Strip. (Photograph by Jae C. Hong/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (93%); PRIVATE EQUITY (93%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BONDS (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (71%); CASH FLOW (71%); MARKET SHARE (69%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (69%); RETAILERS (67%)

COMPANY: SUPERVALU INC (83%); SAFEWAY INC (82%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (53%)

TICKER: SVU (NYSE) (83%); SWY (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (83%); SIC5141 GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (83%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



25 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Letters

 BODY:
Opportunity in Africa
 To the Editor:
 Re ''What Does Africa Need Most: Technology or Aid?'' (Slipstream, June 17), which concluded that Africa needs investment in entrepreneurialism as well as aid, aimed toward education, health and food: 
 These are major goals of America's very substantial support for Africa. And the Bush administration's Digital Freedom Initiative is helping to build a legal and regulatory environment across Africa to promote the use of cellphones, the Internet and information technologies. 
 The United States Trade and Development Agency, along with the initiative, recently was host for a meeting attended by officials from across sub-Saharan Africa. The dignitaries met with hundreds of American business people to discuss business opportunities and challenges in the African technology sector. The conference attracted an attendance larger than that for similar events in other regions, demonstrating the growing American interest in investing and working in Africa.
 The successful introduction of new technologies in Africa has not happened by accident. The United States government, industry and many others have worked hard with our African colleagues to make a dramatic difference in people's lives. David A. Gross
 Washington, June 22
 The writer is coordinator for international communications and information policy at the State Department.
 All Those Gifts for Baby
 To the Editor:
 Re ''What to Expect When Expecting? A Whole Lot of Loot'' (June 24), which described the popularity of baby showers and baby gift registries:
 Think of all the families in this city, nation, country and world who can't afford to feed their children nutritious food, let alone buy them other essentials like diapers and clothes. I suggest that expectant parents ask their friends to select gifts to be given outright to the local UNICEF offices or to Planned Parenthood, where the money can do wonders. Fiona D. J. Bayly
 Manhattan, June 24

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); CHILDREN (77%); FAMILY (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); COMPUTING & IT REGULATION & POLICY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%)

COMPANY: DIGITAL FREEDOM (57%)

ORGANIZATION: TRADE & DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



26 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; INVESTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Value Stocks Prove That the Bargain Basement Isn't Empty

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
AFTER the stock market started tumbling in 2000, value-oriented stocks made a comeback. With their bargain prices, these stocks can generate a healthy cash flow and give investors a reassuring margin of safety. 
 Now, although the market is far from the depths of six or seven years ago, investors are looking afresh at value stocks and mutual funds that hold value-oriented shares and wondering if a case can be made for them. Value stocks are known for having qualities like low price-to-earnings or price-to-book ratios, or high yields from dividends.
 Geoff Bobroff, a mutual fund consultant based in East Greenwich, R.I., said that during the last six years, value stocks have performed better than growth stocks among larger companies. Among smaller companies, value has also outperformed growth, but not as dramatically, he said. 
 When growth is the victor, it often wins by a much higher percentage margin than value does, Mr. Bobroff said. ''But over the long term,'' he said, ''the compound appreciation of value stocks exceeds growth stocks.'' 
 Jeremy J. Siegel, a professor of finance at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and an adviser to WisdomTree Asset Management, is also a believer. He said that value stocks ''have been bid up a bit more than they have in the past,'' but that ''it is not a time to abandon value and go for growth. In the long run, value stocks have done better.'' 
 A host of strategies surround value investing. Some managers of value funds choose to bet on just a handful of stocks. 
 Depending on whom you ask, betting on just a few stocks is riskier because it depends on a savvy handful of picks. Others say this strategy is actually less risky because each investment represents greater conviction on the fund manager's part. 
 Choosing a small clutch of holdings is the approach of Larry S. Pitkowsky, Bruce Berkowitz and Keith D. Trauner, who run the $4.9 billion Fairholme fund. That fund, which is up 9.28 percent this year, has handily beaten the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index over three years and five years, according to Morningstar. Fairholme invests in just 24 stocks. 
 Recent Fairholme holdings have included Penn West Energy, Sears Holding, Leucadia National, EchoStarand Mohawk Industries. 
 The world may view Fairholme as a value fund, but Mr. Pitkowsky does not really see a distinction between growth and value. He says all investing is value oriented. ''Everything we do,'' he said in a telephone interview, ''is trying to buy dollar bills for 50 cents.'' 
 ''There's nothing wrong with buying a faster-growing company if your analysis of the future cash flow shows that the stock is cheap relative to its future cash flow,'' he said. But, he added, ''we want such a big margin of safety that we are normally unwilling to assume rapid growth for many years.'' 
 It is reassuring to think that one can find managers who keep beating the competition with just a handful of stocks. But even the best managers can run through tough years. 
 Oakmark Select, a concentrated fund run by Bill Nygren a veteran value fund manager, and Henry Berghoef, was up 6.03 percent this year through Thursday, trailing the S.& P. by 1.1 percentage points. In recent years, the fund, with $6.3 billion in assets, has had just 20 positions and has had a disappointing performance relative to the S.& P. Recent holdings have included Washington Mutual, Yum Brands, McDonald'sand H & R Block. 
 ''Select is more suitable for some portion of a portfolio,'' Mr. Nygren said. ''There is more risk through concentration.''
 Value investors are quick to caution that patience may be needed for the payoffs. While the Oakmark Select fund has not kept up with the indexes in the last three years, it has had a 16.27 percent annualized return over the last 10 years. That is 8.49 percentage points better than the S.& P.
 It is noteworthy that Oakmark also offers a less concentrated fund, run by Mr. Nygren and Kevin E. Grant, and called just Oakmark, with 52 stocks. Like its sister fund, it has underperformed the S. & P. this year. 
 Over the 10-year period, Oakmark has outperformed the S.& P., but by just a fraction of a percentage point. 
 Mr. Nygren attributes the difference in long-term performance to a handful of successful stocks in the Select fund that accounted for a far larger percentage of that fund's holdings. They included cable television stocks and investments in the Gucci Group and Amgen. 
 For investors who do not want the risk of somewhat concentrated choices, there are index funds and even funds that function like index funds, selecting a broad array of stocks -- by a set of metrics -- with value characteristics. 
 Among the more interesting is the Dimensional Fund Advisors U.S. Small Cap Value fund. It is effectively a hybrid of a value fund and an index fund. 
 The Dimensional family of funds depends on a strategy developed by the economist Eugene F. Fama, a professor of finance at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business who is credited with creating the term ''efficient markets,'' and Kenneth R. French, a professor of finance at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth. The two believe that over a very long period, smaller stocks and value stocks deliver better returns. Dimensional has created a group of funds that rely on an index of such stocks. 
 The fund, with $10 billion in assets, has turned in a stunning performance, handily beating the S.& P. in the 3-, 5- and 10-year periods. Over the last 10 years, it has had an average annual return of 15.84 percent, almost twice as good as the S.& P.
 For the five-year period, the numbers have been even better: Dimensional's U.S. Small Cap fund generated an average annual return of 18.3 percent, versus 10.74 percent for the S.& P. Weston J. Wellington, a vice president at Dimensional, said that there are 1,329 stocks in the fund's portfolio. 
 Another value investor is Mario J. Gabelli. Gabelli Asset, with $2.9 billion under management, was Mr. Gabelli's first fund. It owns 450 stocks, including a heavy dose of media shares, which have always appealed to him.
 Gabelli Asset has outperformed the S.& P. so far this year and underperformed it for the three- and five-year periods. Mr. Gabelli says the fund, which he describes as a surrogate for a classic value fund, is not looking to beat an index fund.
 ''Our benchmark is to outperform 10-percent-plus inflation, which is now about 3 percent,'' he said. 
 But is this the best time to buy a value fund?
 Experts say it is as good a time as any. Few investors are ultimately smart about timing the market, and good value investors aim to find undervalued stocks even in a tough market.
 ''Even in the late 1990s, value stocks did not get clobbered absolutely,'' said Bruce C. Greenwald, a professor of finance and asset management at Columbia Business School. ''They were going up 8 or 9 percent, compared to the market, which was going up 20 percent or more, and they made it up later.'' 
 Value may never have quite the greed-activating allure that growth stocks had in the late 1990s, when dot-com stocks seemed to reach new heights daily. But for investors with the patience, value -- despite its recent run -- is probably still a good bet. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASH FLOW (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%)

COMPANY: WISDOMTREE INVESTMENTS INC (55%); LEUCADIA NATIONAL CORP (51%); MOHAWK INDUSTRIES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

TICKER: WETF (NASDAQ) (55%); LUK (NYSE) (51%); MHK (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (55%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS327120 CLAY BUILDING MATERIAL & REFRACTORIES MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS326199 ALL OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS321918 OTHER MILLWORK (INCLUDING FLOORING) (51%); NAICS314110 CARPET & RUG MILLS (51%); SIC3996 LINOLEUM, ASPHALTED-FELT-BASE, & OTHER HARD SURFACE FLOOR COVERINGS, NEC (51%); SIC3253 CERAMIC WALL & FLOOR TILE (51%); SIC2273 CARPETS & RUGS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



27 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE COUNT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: That War Is Over. It's O.K. to Trade With the Enemy.

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI

 BODY:
In 1776, our baby of a nation had a population of 2.5 million. Today that number has grown to 302 million. 
 What began, then, as an act of rebellion against the British created not just a separate country but also a powerful economic force, as the Census Bureau reminds us in an eclectic set of Fourth of July facts and figures that cover everything from potato salad to patriotic place names. 
 Resentment against Britain was running pretty high 231 years ago. But in a sign that all is forgiven, Britain has become the sixth-largest trading partner with the United States, with some $99 billion in trade in 2006, the statistics show.
 The data also show that gaining our independence was a big break for the flag and fireworks industries, and not just in the United States.
 Where do you think we get most of the imported fireworks that we use as an expression of our independent American identity? From China. (Let's keep our fingers crossed about the quality control.) PHYLLIS KORKKI 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US INDEPENDENCE DAY (88%); IMPORT TRADE (86%); CENSUS (73%); STATISTICS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



28 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2885 words

HEADLINE: A Hamptons for Hedge Funds

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
WILLIAM E. GRAYSON, the president of EGM Capital, a hedge fund firm in San Francisco, has never set foot on the Cayman Islands, but he knows that sun-baked Caribbean haven quite well. That's because he set up one of his funds in the Caymans, where lucrative tax breaks and fabled financial secrecy have made this British territory a magnet for hedge fund managers. 
 ''All of the offshore jurisdictions are competing against each other to provide the most hospitable regulatory landscape, and the Caymans are really coming on strong,'' Mr. Grayson says. ''As a hedge fund manager, you just might be deciding whether you want to golf or scuba-dive more.''
 In as little as two weeks, and for about $35,000 in fees, hedge funds can set up shop in the Caymans -- just a fraction of the time and up to one-tenth the price of incorporating a fund in drearier climes like Delaware. 
 While speed and bargain prices are big attractions, the real draw, say analysts and Congressional investigators, are perfectly legal Caymans-based corporations and partnerships that allow major investors to avoid taxes of up to 35 percent that the Internal Revenue Service levies on unearned business income. Cayman tax laws also help American fund managers legally defer domestic taxes on their personal profits by channeling them offshore through their funds. 
 The biggest of the three islands that make up the Caymans, Grand Cayman, is only 22 miles long and, at its widest, 8 miles across. But the territory's tax advantages have turned it into one of the linchpins of the estimated $1.5 trillion global hedge fund business.
 ''So many of the best money managers have set up in the Cayman Islands,'' says Kurt N. Schacht, managing director of the CFA Centre for Financial Market Integrity, a nonprofit research organization in Charlottesville, Va. ''It has become the place to go.''
 As recently as a decade ago, regulators and law enforcement officials regarded the Caymans, an outpost 480 miles south of Miami that once served as a shelter for pirates like Blackbeard, as a hotbed for money laundering and other dubious financial schemes. Today, it is the corporate home for what the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority estimates to be three out of every four of the world's hedge funds -- more than anywhere else -- thanks to its friendly tax and regulatory regimes, as well as an army of foreign bankers, tax lawyers, accountants and fund administrators who make it all work.
 ''With some of the other jurisdictions, there's an island mentality,'' says Michelle Kline, a principal at Genesee Investments, a hedge fund based in Bellevue, Wash. ''The thing that's different about Cayman is that the regulators realize that hedge funds are a business, rather than just something to regulate.''
 For their part, Cayman officials, regulators and private-sector lawyers, bankers and accountants say that there is nothing illegitimate about how the territory supports offshore finance, and that it is a system that is unfairly tarred and much misunderstood by its critics.
 True, ''we're not a widows-and-orphans jurisdiction,'' says Ted Bravakis, the director of public relations in the Portfolio of Finance and Economics, a Cayman government agency that helps to oversee financial services there. But, he adds, ''the Cayman Islands sees the use of our jurisdiction and service providers by U.S. entities and individuals to avoid their tax responsibilities as abusive -- we feel equally abused because our regime is not intended to be used in that way.'' 
 The Caymans' ascent as a hedge fund haven coincides with recent calls by American legislators for greater oversight and taxation of hedge funds -- lightly regulated, secretive investment pools for wealthy individuals and institutions -- as well as greater scrutiny of the tax status of private equity firms. 
 As legislators like Senators Carl M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan, Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, and Max S. Baucus, Democrat of Montana, also make renewed calls for a broader crackdown on financial abuses in offshore tax havens, the Cayman government has continued spending heavily on high-profile lobbyists, public relations firms and well-connected lawyers to persuade the world's senior financial officials and regulators that the Caymans has outgrown its past as a center of financial high jinks.
 During the spring, Cayman representatives lobbied the Securities and Exchange Commission, aides and members of the Senate Banking Committee, tax policy officials of the Treasury Department, and the office of Vice President Dick Cheney in an effort to foster the impression that the island territory has remade itself into a law-abiding, smoothly run financial supermarket.
 A Treasury Department spokesman declined to comment on the specifics of the visit, but said that the agency ''is concerned about abuses offshore and in keeping open channels of communication.'' A spokeswoman for Mr. Cheney said that his office routinely does not comment on such meetings, and a Senate Banking Committee spokesman described the meetings as ''a courtesy call.'' The S.E.C. declined requests for comment.
 While much of the hedge-fund rush to the Caymans involves taking advantage of tax structures that are well within the law, some veteran financial experts say they worry that the number of hedge-fund entrants there may tempt some to operate outside the law.
 ''They've made great strides -- there's been an evolution,'' says Jack Blum, a former special counsel to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and an authority on money laundering and tax evasion issues, of the territory's effort to clean itself up. ''I say that's great, but who's looking to see whether they're really exercising any real fiduciary responsibility?''
 THE daily nuts-and-bolts investment activities of most hedge funds still occur, of course, in places like Manhattan and Greenwich, Conn. -- the manicured enclave that is home to ''hedgies'' earning up to hundreds of millions, sometimes billions, of dollars a year -- or behind glossy black doors in the upscale Belgravia and Mayfair sections of London. 
 But the legal home of many of the world's hedge funds, the place where they often choose to incorporate for tax purposes, is the Caymans.
 Most American individual investors are not able to play the Cayman tax game. Such investments are taxable to American investors under United States tax laws, so investors typically put their money in a section of hedge funds that are set up as Delaware partnerships or limited liability companies. That means that they will pay taxes of anywhere from 15 percent for capital gains or up to 35 percent for ordinary income taxes when they cash in their investments. 
 But foreign individual investors and tax-exempt American investors -- like pension plans, hospitals and university endowments -- are allowed to put their money into another section of the fund that is registered offshore, in the Caymans. The American institutions have that option because, while they are tax-exempt under American tax law, a United States tax on unearned business income would apply if they invested in a domestic fund. 
 In that regard, lawyers in the Caymans say that they are providing a legal service to hedge funds, and nothing more. ''The real question is, how much financial engineering is done by a Cayman lawyer in relation to a hedge fund, and the answer is, not much,'' says Anthony B. Travers, the chairman of the Cayman Islands Stock Exchange and the former managing partner of Maples & Calder, a leading law firm in the Caymans that caters to offshore funds and companies. 
 Maples & Calder has its offices in Ugland House, a five-story building on Grand Cayman that is the legal address of thousands of Cayman entities enjoying the territory's tax benefits, according to the Senate Finance Committee. ''It's no different from Delaware,'' Mr. Travers says.
 Hedge funds are garnering attention from tax policy experts and American legislators because their rapid proliferation, burgeoning assets and big returns are part of a major shift in the financial landscape, away from public ownership and supervision and toward a private club of financial supertitans that can take advantage of big tax breaks and minimal oversight. 
 The club's biggest investors these days are not wealthy individuals but big institutions like pension plans, hospitals and university endowments, says Timothy Ridley, chairman of the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority, a regulatory body that has what Mr. Ridley describes as a ''special relationship'' with the hedge funds it regulates. The agency historically takes no regulatory or policy actions without first consulting closely with local tax lawyers, fund administrators and other power brokers in the Cayman financial system.
 Some 8,500 investment funds are registered in the Cayman Islands, according to the agency -- a near-tripling since 2001. The 1993 Cayman Islands law governing hedge funds doesn't distinguish between mutual funds and hedge funds, but Mr. Ridley says the vast majority of registered funds in the territory are hedge funds. He estimates that about 75 percent of the world's hedge funds are registered in the Caymans. 
 Gus Pope, the managing partner of Maples & Calder, says he attributes the Caymans' rise as a leading hedge-fund domicile to ''timing and luck, I guess.'' But others attribute the rise to such arcane corporate devices as so-called blocker companies, which allow institutional investors to avoid paying taxes on certain types of heavy borrowing that hedge funds typically use to make their investment bets.
 In May, the Senate Finance Committee harshly criticized Cayman blockers. It said that while they are legal under Cayman law, they potentially allowed American investors to skirt domestic taxes. The committee is conducting a broad review of the tax benefits available to hedge funds and private equity firms, in part through offshore havens like the Caymans. The committee is looking at the possibility of legislation that would make it illegal for tax-exempt organizations to use blocker companies.
 ''If they knock that out, it would make us less attractive,'' Mr. Ridley says. 
 Despite the Cayman officials' insistence on propriety, many high-profile financial debacles have washed up on its shores. Enron, the energy company that collapsed amid a huge fraud, used 700 secret, Cayman-based partnerships and entities to carry out financial sleight of hand, according to Enron's own special investigations committee and to a Congressional report. 
 High-profile hedge funds that collapsed more recently -- including Bayou Group and Wood River Capital Management -- were registered in the Cayman Islands. Both of those funds took advantage of the island's secrecy and lax regulations to cheat investors and avoid more transparent financial disclosures, according to Cayman court documents and S.E.C. lawsuits. A lawyer for Wood River declined to comment; a lawyer for Bayou's offshore business did not return phone calls on Friday seeking comment. 
 Philadelphia Alternative Asset Management, a Cayman-based hedge fund that collapsed last year, was able through its broker, a unit of the Man Group, the London hedge fund giant, to use a Cayman-based bank account to hide trading losses, according to allegations by the court-appointed receiver in proceedings in a federal court in Philadelphia. 
 ''We continue to vigorously deny any allegations,'' said a spokeswoman for the Man Group.
 Roger D. Lorence, a tax lawyer based in New York who specializes in hedge funds, says I.R.S. agents are seeing a ''very new trend'' of schemes in which tax shelters masquerade as Cayman-registered hedge funds or partnerships engaging in complex financial transactions.
 Bogus hedge funds in the Caymans, he says, are used to artificially generate tax losses that are then claimed in the United States, an illegal tax-evasion gimmick similar to questionable tax shelters of recent vintage that have been the focus of a wide-ranging criminal investigation by federal prosecutors in Manhattan.
 ''Hedge funds are deemed sexy, and 'everybody makes money in them,' but they become a magnet for fraudsters,'' says Kevin J. O'Connor, the United States attorney in Connecticut, who is also chief of staff to Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales.
 HEDGE funds doing business in the Caymans can find an ample supply of accountants, lawyers, bankers and consultants offering legal and accounting advice. Major American accounting firms like Ernst & Young, KPMG and Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu all have units in the Caymans (and all declined to be interviewed about their operations there).
 One business ally of the Caymans is Sidley Austin, a Chicago law firm that is a longtime lobbyist on international tax issues for the government, according to lobbying records. 
 In May, Sidley agreed to pay a fine of $39.4 million to the Internal Revenue Service for improprieties regarding tax shelter work it had performed for KPMG clients, but federal prosecutors said that they decided not to file criminal charges against the entire firm for that work. Prosecutors said they made that decision because a single Sidley lawyer, Raymond J. Ruble, was primarily involved with the shelters.
 Sidley said in a statement that Mr. Ruble began his tax practice while working for a different firm that Sidley acquired. After that takeover, Sidley ordered him to end his tax shelter work, but Sidley said Mr. Ruble circumvented that agreement and concealed his conduct. Mr. Ruble has been indicted on charges of helping create bogus tax shelters. 
 Part of the tax shelter work that Sidley performed in the Caymans involved registering entities there that were used to carry out what prosecutors describe as bogus shelter transactions, according to internal documents in the federal criminal case against Mr. Ruble and former KPMG employees. Sidley declined to comment. A lawyer for Mr. Ruble said his client had nothing to do with actually setting up the Cayman entities but declined to comment further.
 Since the fall of 2001, as the number of hedge fund registrations there began rising sharply, the Caymans hasworked to burnish its reputation abroad. The year before, in 2000, the Financial Information Task Force, an independent international body intended to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, placed the Caymans on an international blacklist of uncooperative money-laundering nations, alongside Russia, the Philippines and various small Pacific territories. 
 In 2001, the same year that the Caymans dropped off the blacklist, the government there paid $74,300 to a well-connected Washington lawyer, Fred F. Fielding, to help persuade American officials to lean on the international task force to remove the Caymans from the list, said a White House official who requested anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the issue. Mr. Fielding is now the White House's chief counsel and a spokesman, Tony Fratto, said that Mr. Fielding's work for the Cayman government was twofold: to ''get them off'' the money laundering blacklist and ''to assist them in discussions with the U.S. government to make appropriate changes.''
 MR. RIDLEY, the regulatory official in the Caymans, said that such efforts were all geared toward combating negative images of the British territory and presenting ''the picture of Cayman as it now is.'' 
 Around 2000, the Caymans also hired Robert L. Livingston, a former Louisiana Republican congressman turned K Street lobbyist, to help erase a lingering American perception of the Cayman Islands asa hotbed of money laundering, said W. McKeeva Bush, the former head of government, the territory's top elected post.
 Mr. Livingston and his associates declined to be interviewed for this article. From 2002 to 2005, the Caymans paid Mr. Livingston's company at least $1.5 million in fees, according to lobbying records.
 ''If you know Washington, once lawmakers have their minds made up, it doesn't mean a can of beans,'' Mr. Bush said in a recent telephone interview in which he praised Mr. Livingston's work. ''What matters is who is in the know in the Washington crowd.''
 Others have a different view of Mr. Livingston's work. ''He didn't really do anything in five years,'' says Mr. Travers, the Cayman Islands Stock Exchange official. ''I don't think anybody on the outside actually understands what goes on in the financial sector here.''
 Mr. Bush was voted out of office in 2005. His successors ended the government's relationship with Mr. Livingston's company, replacing it with Fleishman-Hillard, a leading public relations firm. In March, the firm helped to organize the public relations tour in Washington for Cayman officials that included stops at the S.E.C., the Treasury Department, the Senate and the vice president's office, Mr. Bravakis says.
 Other offshore locales have begun competing with the Caymans for hedge fund business, including the Isle of Man, Guernsey, the British Virgin Islands and Bermuda. Mr. Travers says the more, the merrier.
 ''Unless they self-destruct, through a major exogenous event or internal explosion,'' Mr. Travers says, ''the offshore jurisdiction just tends to get stronger.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anthony B. Travers, left, of the Cayman Islands Stock Exchange, and Timothy Ridley, of the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority.
The Caymans has paid Robert Livingston's company at least $1.5 million in lobbying fees. (Photograph by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)
The Ugland House in Grand Cayman is the legal address of tens of thousands of Cayman entities. (Photographs by Shurna Robbins for The New York Times)(pg. 7)
 (Photograph by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); TAX CONSULTING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SCUBA DIVING (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); MONEY LAUNDERING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT A LIVINGSTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) CAYMAN ISLANDS (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



29 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: Caren Lee, Jeremy Caplan

 BODY:
Caren Beth Lee, the daughter of Nancy B. Lee and Dr. Douglas S. Lee of Setauket, N.Y., is to be married today to Jeremy Lee Caplan, a son of Brenda Caplan and Dr. Louis R. Caplan of Chestnut Hill, Mass. Rabbi Martin S. Cohen is to perform the ceremony at the Shelter Rock Jewish Center in Roslyn, N.Y. 
 The bride, 25, teaches history at Mamaroneck High School in Mamaroneck, N.Y. She graduated from Brown and received a master's degree from Columbia in teaching English to speakers of other languages. Her father, an obstetrician and gynecologist, is a partner in Suffolk OB/GYN, a group medical practice in Port Jefferson, N.Y.
 The bridegroom, 32, is a business and technology reporter for Time magazine in New York. He graduated cum laude from Princeton and is to become a Knight-Bagehot fellow in economics and business journalism at Columbia next month. His father is a neurologist who sees patients at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and is a professor of neurology at Harvard Medical School, both in Boston. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photograph by Lynn Spinatto) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); NEUROSCIENCE (86%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (86%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (86%); JOURNALISM (85%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



30 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2167 words

PERSON: Joseph Bertolozzi 

HEADLINE: Maestro Gives New Meaning To Traffic Jam

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN and JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
HIGHLAND, N.Y.
 A SKINNY laborer with a flaming skull tattooed on his upper arm shimmied up an I-beam 135 feet over the Hudson River. He taped two tiny microphones to a cable holding up the bridge deck and took a rubber mallet out of his knapsack. 
 With his arm outlined by the blue sky, he whacked away at the cable as a sound engineer recorded the dull thuds. ''You'll want to give your full might when you hit it,'' yelled Joseph Bertolozzi, a composer leading this expedition one day late last month. The cable swayed slightly with each stroke.
 The purpose of the test was to check not the bridge's soundness but its sound. The rather bizarre scene on the Franklin D. Roosevelt Mid-Hudson Bridge near Poughkeepsie was part of Mr. Bertolozzi's audacious plan to transform the span into an orchestra, compose a piece for it, then actually perform the work live with a small army of percussionists. It is a musical undertaking on a vast scale and one that has brought oddly harmonious marriages among the worlds of art and government, music and engineering. 
 Mr. Bertolozzi, 48, has been meticulously harvesting a multitude of sounds from the structure: not just the cables, which on playback create woo-wooing effects or sounds like a bass guitar, but the spindles below guardrails, the rails themselves, the interior and flanges of innumerable I-beams, connecting metal plates and the grates between walkways. 
 He sent mounds of steel pellets down the interior of a 315-foot steel tower to create a rain-stick effect. He collected clanks from the ''Hudson River Estuary'' sign, with its blue sturgeon emblem. An organist as well as a composer, Mr. Bertolozzi even hopes to turn large upright conduits for power lines into rough organ pipes. 
 ''I only play big instruments,'' he said. 
 Each sound is sampled by a computer program and labeled. From the samples Mr. Bertolozzi is isolating pitches and percussive effects and will use them to compose and record a 45- to 60-minute suite called ''Bridge Music.'' 
 If all goes according to plan, the project will culminate in public performances piggybacked on celebrations in 2009 commemorating the 400th anniversaries of Henry Hudson's trip up the river and Samuel de Champlain's journey to the lake named after him. Twenty-two percussionists stationed along the bridge and a singer at the top of one of the towers will perform the work, to be transmitted over loudspeakers to audiences on the riverbanks. 
 The New York State Bridge Authority has given its approval, lending Mr. Bertolozzi workers during his handful of visits so far and accepting his presence with amused benevolence. He awaits word from the Hudson-Fulton-Champlain Quadricentennial Commission on whether it will endorse the project or provide funds. 
 An endorsement, at least, would help Mr. Bertolozzi raise money from other sources. He estimates he needs $1.8 million, an outlandish sum for an obscure composer without a major institutional connection. 
 UP on the bridge, while huge freighters slowly sailed down the Hudson as if they were whales, Mr. Bertolozzi's persistence -- bordering on obsession -- had the whiff of Ahab. 
 ''I'm not trying to prove anything,'' said Mr. Bertolozzi, who has amassed an impressive amount of information about bridge engineering along the way. ''I just want to play the bridge. Whoever thought anybody would get to this point doing something like this?''
 While his quest may seem quixotic, elements of Mr. Bertolozzi's idea have precedents in music history. Found instruments from tire rims to metal sheets have often been used in percussion pieces. Big art is often found in natural settings, as with Mount Rushmore or a Christo installation. Composers like Ives and Copland celebrated the American outdoors too. 
 Such points are made by Andrew Tomasello, an associate professor of music at Baruch College and the City University of New York Graduate Center, in a testimonial that Mr. Bertolozzi includes in a packet of information laying out his vision and credentials. ''The proposal is an exciting and original one,'' Mr. Tomasello writes.
 Bridges have inspired other composers. Tobias Picker's ''Keys to the City,'' a concerto for piano and orchestra, evokes the Brooklyn Bridge and was performed on it during a celebration of its centenary in 1983. Last year Bill Fontana attached eight vibration sensors to the Millennium Bridge in London and transmitted the sounds to a room in the Tate Modern.
 Mr. Bertolozzi has done something different. 
 ''I'm actually using the bridge as an instrument,'' he said. ''It's not aleatory. There's no guesswork. I have an army of percussionists playing a percussion instrument.'' 
 And then there is the setting. ''Look at the theater I have,'' Mr. Bertolozzi said, spreading his arms wide toward the Hudson. ''Not only is the bridge magnificent, the venue is exalted.''
 Early in the day Mr. Bertolozzi, wearing a black T-shirt under an unbuttoned burgundy shirt and black pants, collected sounds under the bridge road. He worked on a traveler, a motorized platform that gives bridge workers access to the underside of the deck. 
 Rick Warr, the worker who would later shimmy up to bang the cables, and another laborer, Deven Fisher, were there to help, wearing neon yellow-green shirts and handing up mallets, cleaning surfaces with alcohol and attaching the contact microphones. Ron Kuhnke, the sound engineer, sat at a laptop on the walkway above. The traveler vibrated with the passing of vehicles.
 Mr. Bertolozzi used an array of striking instruments at each spot, in a set order, starting with two rubber mallets with the names of his wife, Sheila, and daughter, Sarah, inscribed on the handles. He used ball-peen, Lucite and rubber-coated hammers and a pair of dowels, warning a visitor about the potentially infection-bearing effects of the copious pigeon droppings.
 Mr. Warr and Mr. Fisher helped willingly and took Mr. Bertolozzi's unusual idea in stride. ''He's a good guy,'' Mr. Fisher said. Mr. Warr added, ''Easy day for us.'' With their lunch break approaching at 11:45 a.m., Mr. Bertolozzi worked quickly, snatching up mallets and yelling to Mr. Kuhnke that he was moving to the next set of hammers. A train rumbled along the shore. ''The sounds are unremarkable themselves,'' Mr. Bertolozzi said. ''It's when you put them together that you make music.''
 Mr. Bertolozzi, who lives in nearby Beacon, said he became interested in composing when he was 10. He studied organ, graduated from Vassar College and now earns his living as an organist at Vassar Temple in Poughkeepsie and the Lutheran Church of the Resurrection in Mount Kisco. He collects gongs and has created a battery of them for composition and performance. His catalog of more than 75 works includes pieces for orchestra, band, small chamber ensembles and organ.
 He has long been a student of instrumental physics. Organs are a study in columns of air and resonance. His gongs taught him about how sound waves propagate across metal and how the kind of metal and its thickness alter the tone.
 So when he looks at the bridge, he said, he sees something in its spindles and handrails and trusses and ropes that means more than suspension, support and transport. ''It's a whole percussion ensemble,'' he said. 
 Mr. Bertolozzi said he had thought long and hard about the physics behind the sounds that elements of the bridge might produce. For the most part the solid steel structural elements of the bridge produced the thuds and clangs he expected, he said. But the suspension ropes, which are actually made of steel, were a surprise. ''I was thinking that because they were so dense and so rigid they might act like a chime,'' he said, or perhaps a bell. 
 ''I was wrong,'' he added, immensely pleased by a fruitful mistake. 
 The ropes, it turned out, were not so taut as to be immobile. When struck, they sway back and forth like a plucked guitar string. ''When we finally played it,'' he recalled, ''the very short ones sounded like a bass guitar or marimba.'' 
 Air is not a good conductor of sound, so he and his technicians have added microphones to the metal structure, just as an electric guitar has pickups on its body to capture and amplify the strings' vibrations. 
 He handed over headphones so the sounds could be heard. The result was an otherworldly ''Puh-THEW!-Whew!-Whew! ...'' 
 But why go to the trouble to try a live performance when all the sounds are on his hard drive? ''I could sample a cat in Bulgaria and sample someone drinking a glass of water and put it together,'' he said, but living performers make the difference. ''I wanted to put a human fingerprint on this project.''
 SEVERAL strands of Mr. Bertolozzi's career led to this place high above the Hudson. In 2004 he composed a piece for Poughkeepsie's 150th anniversary that included using the band of the United States Military Academy at West Point, the stationing of trumpeters in two civic buildings and the ringing of the town's church bells. ''It was like playing the city,'' he said. The gong music was another avenue.
 The bridge idea was born, Mr. Bertolozzi said, in September 2004, when he and his wife returned home after a gong performance. Passing a poster of the Eiffel Tower (where they met and first kissed) in their home, Sheila Bertolozzi whimsically made a gong-striking gesture toward it. ''And I said, 'Of course!' '' Mr. Bertolozzi recounted.
 Perhaps there was music in the banging of the Eiffel Tower, he speculated. But Paris was impractical. ''I thought, 'What can we do here?' '' Mr. Bertolozzi said. The bridge came to mind. Through a mutual friend he approached the bridge authority's communications director, who was intrigued, and approached the agency's executive director, George C. Sinnott.
 Mr. Sinnott was skeptical. ''Quite frankly people were wondering if Mr. Bertolozzi had his head screwed on straight,'' he said. ''Everybody wondered if this guy was a kook.'' He had Mr. Bertolozzi checked out and found that he was a serious composer. Why not give him a chance? he thought. After all, the authority's charter says it should act for the ''economic and social benefit'' of the community, and the bridges often play a role in charity events.
 With the approval of the authority's chief engineer, William J. Moreau, Mr. Bertolozzi was given permission in July 2006 to collect his first samples. He created ''Bridge Funk,'' a 2 minute 16 second calling card for the commissioners, who had to sign off on the project. (Available through josephbertolozzi.com, the piece will serve as a movement in the suite.) In November Mr. Bertolozzi was given 10 minutes at a board meeting to make his pitch. The commissioners heard ''Bridge Funk'' and gave approval.
 The authority has stood behind the project, even urging the quadricentennial commission to approve it, despite scattered complaints that it is a waste of money, officials said.
 ''It's a kick,'' Mr. Sinnott said of the piece.
 The bridge, its main span 1,500 feet long, is already a cultural symbol to its community. Built between 1925 and 1930, the soaring Gothic towers and suspension cables show up on logos of local businesses and organizations. 
 Mr. Moreau, the bridge's longtime engineer, said he has always seen the bridge as a machine: a device that gets people from one place to another with the structural integrity to carry 35,000 vehicles each day but flexible enough to accommodate 40 inches of expansion and contraction along its length. 
 It also makes a lot of noise. ''We're very familiar with the screeches and groans that it makes,'' Mr. Moreau said. But until Mr. Bertolozzi's project, he added, ''we never thought of it as a musical noise.''
 So Mr. Bertolozzi's proposal struck him as ''pretty bizarre,'' he said. ''I had to conceptualize how the noise would be played without damaging the bridge.'' During test runs, he said, the hammers and mallets make the paint on the ropes shake away like silver dandruff. ''We'll be dealing with that,'' he said. 
 Since he has been watching Mr. Bertolozzi, Mr. Moreau has come to see a new dimension to his bridge, he said. ''Bridge Funk'' opened his eyes and ears. ''The physics of it didn't make a lot of sense to me at first,'' he added, ''but he's teaching me something here.''
 During one of the many lulls between setups and whamming Mr. Bertolozzi picked up two of the heavy wooden dowels from his bucket and faced the railing. With no microphones attached, he began to play the railing, striking the top in a rapid, jazzy beat and punctuating phrases with a rattling rake across the skinny balusters.
 The metal pinged and rang with the heavy blows, and Mr. Bertolozzi increased the tempo, rocking on his heels, his shoulders rolling. The scarred wood began breaking in his hands. Splinters flew as he sweated in the midday sun. 
 For a moment it was the opposite of the careful sound-by-sound sampling. This was performance. Music. A boy playing on a bridge.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Percussion on a very big instrument: The composer Joseph Bertolozzi uses mallets and dowels to try out sounds on the Franklin D. Roosevelt Mid-Hudson Bridge. He's writing a suite titled ''Bridge Music.'' (pg. 1)
 ''Not only is the bridge magnificent, the venue is exalted,'' said the composer Joseph Bertolozzi, top, who creates sounds with signs, above, and other parts of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Mid-Hudson Bridge. Below, some of the tools he uses to play the span's grates, rails and cables. (pg. 19)(Photographs by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times) ) Map: Map showing the location of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Mid-Hudson Bridge (pg. 19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC (89%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (88%); RIVERS (78%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (75%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (73%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (73%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); APPROVALS (60%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE BRIDGE AUTHORITY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

CATEGORY: Music

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



31 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1880 words

HEADLINE: Buying Into The Green Movement

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

 BODY:
HERE'S one popular vision for saving the planet: Roll out from under the sumptuous hemp-fiber sheets on your bed in the morning and pull on a pair of $245 organic cotton Levi's and an Armani biodegradable knit shirt. 
 Stroll from the bedroom in your eco-McMansion, with its photovoltaic solar panels, into the kitchen remodeled with reclaimed lumber. Enter the three-car garage lighted by energy-sipping fluorescent bulbs and slip behind the wheel of your $104,000 Lexus hybrid. 
 Drive to the airport, where you settle in for an 8,000-mile flight-- careful to buy carbon offsets beforehand -- and spend a week driving golf balls made from compacted fish food at an eco-resort in the Maldives.
 That vision of an eco-sensitive life as a series of choices about what to buy appeals to millions of consumers and arguably defines the current environmental movement as equal parts concern for the earth and for making a stylish statement. 
 Some 35 million Americans regularly buy products that claim to be earth-friendly, according to one report, everything from organic beeswax lipstick from the west Zambian rain forest to Toyota Priuses. With baby steps, more and more shoppers browse among the 60,000 products available under Home Depot's new Eco Options program.
 Such choices are rendered fashionable as celebrities worried about global warming appear on the cover of Vanity Fair's ''green issue,'' and pop stars like Kelly Clarkson and Lenny Kravitz prepare to be headline acts on July 7 at the Live Earth concerts at sites around the world. 
 Consumers have embraced living green, and for the most part the mainstream green movement has embraced green consumerism. But even at this moment of high visibility and impact for environmental activists, a splinter wing of the movement has begun to critique what it sometimes calls ''light greens.'' 
 Critics question the notion that we can avert global warming by buying so-called earth-friendly products, from clothing and cars to homes and vacations, when the cumulative effect of our consumption remains enormous and hazardous.
 ''There is a very common mind-set right now which holds that all that we're going to need to do to avert the large-scale planetary catastrophes upon us is make slightly different shopping decisions,'' said Alex Steffen, the executive editor of Worldchanging.com, a Web site devoted to sustainability issues.
 The genuine solution, he and other critics say, is to significantly reduce one's consumption of goods and resources. It's not enough to build a vacation home of recycled lumber; the real way to reduce one's carbon footprint is to only own one home.
 Buying a hybrid car won't help if it's the aforementioned Lexus, the luxury LS 600h L model, which gets 22 miles to the gallon on the highway; the Toyota Yaris ($11,000) gets 40 highway miles a gallon with a standard gasoline engine.
 It's as though the millions of people whom environmentalists have successfully prodded to be concerned about climate change are experiencing a SnackWell's moment: confronted with a box of fat-free devil's food chocolate cookies, which seem deliciously guilt-free, they consume the entire box, avoiding any fats but loading up on calories. 
 The issue of green shopping is highlighting a division in the environmental movement: ''the old-school environmentalism of self-abnegation versus this camp of buying your way into heaven,'' said Chip Giller, the founder of Grist.org, an online environmental blog that claims a monthly readership of 800,000. ''Over even the last couple of months, there is more concern growing within the traditional camp about the Cosmo-izing of the green movement -- '55 great ways to look eco-sexy,' '' he said. ''Among traditional greens, there is concern that too much of the population thinks there's an easy way out.''
 The criticisms have appeared quietly in some environmental publications and on the Web. 
 GEORGE BLACK, an editor and a columnist at OnEarth, a quarterly journal of the Natural Resources Defense Council, recently summed up the explosion of high-style green consumer items and articles of the sort that proclaim ''green is the new black,'' that is, a fashion trend, as ''eco-narcissism.'' 
 Paul Hawken, an author and longtime environmental activist, said the current boom in earth-friendly products offers a false promise. ''Green consumerism is an oxymoronic phrase,'' he said. He blamed the news media and marketers for turning environmentalism into fashion and distracting from serious issues. 
 ''We turn toward the consumption part because that's where the money is,'' Mr. Hawken said. ''We tend not to look at the 'less' part. So you get these anomalies like 10,000-foot 'green' homes being built by a hedge fund manager in Aspen. Or 'green' fashion shows. Fashion is the deliberate inculcation of obsolescence.'' 
 He added: ''The fruit at Whole Foods in winter, flown in from Chile on a 747 -- it's a complete joke. The idea that we should have raspberries in January, it doesn't matter if they're organic. It's diabolically stupid.'' 
 Environmentalists say some products marketed as green may pump more carbon into the atmosphere than choosing something more modest, or simply nothing at all. Along those lines, a company called PlayEngine sells a 19-inch widescreen L.C.D. set whose ''sustainable bamboo'' case is represented as an earth-friendly alternative to plastic.
 But it may be better to keep your old cathode-tube set instead, according to ''The Live Earth Global Warming Survival Handbook,'' because older sets use less power than plasma or L.C.D. screens. (Televisions account for about 4 percent of energy consumption in the United States, the handbook says.) 
 ''The assumption that by buying anything, whether green or not, we're solving the problem is a misperception,'' said Michael Ableman, an environmental author and long-time organic farmer. ''Consuming is a significant part of the problem to begin with. Maybe the solution is instead of buying five pairs of organic cotton jeans, buy one pair of regular jeans instead.'' 
 For the most part, the critiques of green consumption have come from individual activists, not from mainstream environmental groups like the Sierra Club, Greenpeace and the Rainforest Action Network. The latest issue of Sierra, the magazine of the Sierra Club, has articles hailing an ''ecofriendly mall'' featuring sustainable clothing (under development in Chicago) and credit cards that rack up carbon offsets for every purchase, as well as sustainably-harvested caviar and the celebrity-friendly Tango electric sports car (a top-of-the-line model is $108,000).
 One reason mainstream groups may be wary of criticizing Americans' consumption is that before the latest era of green chic, these large organizations endured years in which their warnings about climate change were scarcely heard. 
 Much of the public had turned away from the Carter-era environmental message of sacrifice, which included turning down the thermostat, driving smaller cars and carrying a cloth ''Save-a-Tree'' tote to the supermarket. 
 Now that environmentalism is high profile, thanks in part to the success of ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' the 2006 documentary featuring Al Gore, mainstream greens, for the most part, say that buying products promoted as eco-friendly is a good first step.
 ''After you buy the compact fluorescent bulbs,'' said Michael Brune, the executive director of the Rainforest Action Network, ''you can move on to greater goals like banding together politically to shut down coal-fired power plants.'' 
 John Passacantando, the executive director of Greenpeace USA, argued that green consumerism has been a way for Wal-Mart shoppers to get over the old stereotypes of environmentalists as ''tree-hugging hippies'' and contribute in their own way.
 This is crucial, he said, given the widespread nature of the global warming challenge. ''You need Wal-Mart and Joe Six-Pack and mayors and taxi drivers,'' he said. ''You need participation on a wide front.''
 It is not just ecology activists with one foot in the 1970s, though, who have taken issue with the consumerist personality of the ''light green'' movement. Anti-consumerist fervor burns hotly among some activists who came of age under the influence of noisy, disruptive anti-globalization protests. 
 Last year, a San Francisco group called the Compact made headlines with a vow to live the entire year without buying anything but bare essentials like medicine and food. A year in, the original 10 ''mostly'' made it, said Rachel Kesel, 26, a founder. The movement claims some 8,300 adherents throughout the country and in places as distant as Singapore and Iceland.
 ''The more that I'm engaged in this, the more annoyed I get with things like 'shop against climate change' and these kind of attitudes,'' said Ms. Kesel, who continues her shopping strike and counts a new pair of running shoes -- she's a dog-walker by trade -- as among her limited purchases in 18 months.
 ''It's hysterical,'' she said. ''You're telling people to consume more in order to reduce impact.'' 
 For some, the very debate over how much difference they should try to make in their own lives is a distraction. They despair of individual consumers being responsible for saving the earth from climate change and want to see action from political leaders around the world. 
 INDIVIDUAL consumers may choose more fuel-efficient cars, but a far greater effect may be felt when fuel-efficiency standards are raised for all of the industry , as the Senate voted to do on June 21, the first significant rise in mileage standards in more than two decades.
 ''A legitimate beef that people have with green consumerism is, at end of the day, the things causing climate change are more caused by politics and the economy than individual behavior,'' said Michel Gelobter, a former professor of environmental policy at Rutgers who is now president of Redefining Progress, a nonprofit policy group that promotes sustainable living.
 ''A lot of what we need to do doesn't have to do with what you put in your shopping basket,'' he said. ''It has to do with mass transit, housing density. It has to do with the war and subsidies for the coal and fossil fuel industry.''
 In fact, those light-green environmentalists who chose not to lecture about sacrifice and promote the trendiness of eco-sensitive products may be on to something. 
 Michael Shellenberger, a partner at American Environics, a market research firm in Oakland, Calif., said that his company ran a series of focus groups in April for the environmental group Earthjustice, and was surprised by the results.
 People considered their trip down the Eco Options aisles at Home Depot a beginning, not an end point. 
 ''We didn't find that people felt that their consumption gave them a pass, so to speak,'' Mr. Shellenberger said. ''They knew what they were doing wasn't going to deal with the problems, and these little consumer things won't add up. But they do it as a practice of mindfulness. They didn't see it as antithetical to political action. Folks who were engaged in these green practices were actually becoming more committed to more transformative political action on global warming.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 8, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about eco-friendly consumerism misstated the number of products sold through the Home Depot Eco Options program. It is 2,500 -- not 60,000, which was the number originally submitted by the store's suppliers for inclusion in the program.

GRAPHIC: Photos: WORLDLY GOODS The 438-horsepower Lexus luxury hybrid sedan, top
a second home, complete with solar panels and constructed with salvaged lumber, in Edgartown, Mass.
and laptops and desktop computers said to be good for the earth. (Photograph by Mark Elias/Bloomberg News
Photograph by Rick Friedman for The New York Times
 Photograph by Manjunath Kiran/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. 8) Drawing by Post Typography 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEN MARKET (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); NATURAL FIBERS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); CONSUMPTION (88%); CELEBRITIES (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); COTTON FABRICS (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (76%); RESORTS (75%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (74%); CARBON OFFSETS (74%); SOLAR ENERGY (71%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (67%); RAIN FORESTS (67%); POP & ROCK (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (72%) EARTH (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%); MALDIVES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



32 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: Did You Order A Muslim? (Yuk Yuk)

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES
 THERE are countless ways for a new television comedy to fail: The pilot bombs with focus groups, the series is shoved into an undesirable time slot, an actor begs off at the last minute. ''Aliens in America,'' a new sitcom scheduled to have its premiere on the CW network in the fall, has dodged most of these bullets.
 The series, about an all-American family in Wisconsin that takes in a foreign exchange student as a way to bolster their geeky son's popularity, has gone through two networks, two production studios and a pilot episode that sat on the shelf for a year. 
 Now it is one of the more anticipated new shows of the coming season. During the networks' recent presentations to advertisers of the new fall line-ups, a promotional clip of ''Aliens in America'' received a better reception than nearly all of the comedies screened by NBC, ABC, CBS and Fox. 
 While the show could still fail, that it is around at all can be credited to the persistence of its creators, David Guarascio and Moses Port, and the faith of Dawn Ostroff, the president for entertainment at the CW.
 ''We needed people who totally believed in it to give it a chance,'' Mr. Guarascio said recently. ''When you shoot a show that you really love, and it comes out the way you wanted it to, and a network wants to put it on the air, to have it put on the shelf for a year can lead to an existential crisis.''
 The story began in fall 2005 when Mr. Guarascio and Mr. Port first pitched the idea to NBC. The premise certainly had comic potential and was topical: The family, the Tolchuks, are surprised to find their exchange student arriving from London is Raja, a Pakistani Muslim who changed planes in Britain. On his first day at school the teacher asks the class how many of them are mad at Raja because, as one student puts it, ''his people flew the planes into the buildings in New York.''
 The Tolchuks are equally confused, wondering how they can endure this unexpected guest and possible terrorist in their house. ''They pose as students, Gary,'' Mrs. Tolchuk tells her husband. ''Bill O'Reilly said so.'' When Mr. Tolchuk tries to argue that terrorists are unlikely to be targeting Medora, Wis., Mrs. Tolchuk replies: ''Oh, so now Medora's not important enough to blow up? Where's your civic pride?''
 Mr. Guarascio and Mr. Port have a long, successful track record as writers on the NBC comedy ''Mad About You,'' then as writers, producers and, eventually, show runners on NBC's ''Just Shoot Me.''
 In 2001 NBC signed them to a four-year, $10 million deal to develop new programming, according to industry reports at the time. Over the next few years they came up with several ideas, a few of which were made into pilots. One, ''Happy Family,'' a comedy about an empty-nester couple that starred John Larroquette, made it to television as a series, though it lasted only a season.
 NBC liked the idea of ''Aliens'' and asked Mr. Guarascio and Mr. Port to write a script. But when they did, executives decided that the show was not right for the network.
 ''Because the lead characters were two teenagers, it was a little young for them,'' said Shelley McCrory, the former senior vice president for comedy series at NBC Universal, the network's production studio, who worked on the series's development. ''NBC hasn't had teenagers on their air for a long time.''
 When one network develops and then rejects a script for a new series, the show rarely gets a second chance somewhere else. It is too often deemed damaged goods. But Mr. Guarascio's and Mr. Port's agents managed to get the script in front of executives at CW, which has many series with teenage characters. There it found a fan in Ms. Ostroff, who ordered a pilot episode.
 The NBC production studio agreed to make the pilot but wanted to keep the cost down, particularly if the program was going to be on another network. The economics of television dictate that a studio finances the production of a show, resulting in substantial losses in a show's early years. The big profits, particularly for a situation comedy, come from syndication, which is only possible if a series runs four or more years. With most production houses now owned by or affiliated with networks, the studios have grown reluctant to produce too many series for other networks. 
 One of NBC's cost-cutting measures, Mr. Guarascio said, was to shoot the series in Winnipeg, Manitoba (roughly 200 miles north of Fargo, N.D.), where temperatures rarely rise above freezing for four months of the year. 
 ''That created some issues with casting,'' Mr. Guarascio said. ''A lot of talent was not interested in spending the winter in Winnipeg.''
 The CW received the pilot episode last fall and liked it enough to want to put it on the spring schedule. Ms. Ostroff said the network had been searching for a family comedy to pair with its hit ''Everybody Hates Chris'' and thought it had found one in ''Aliens.''
 Late last year CW and the NBC production studio reached an impasse. Given the amount of time required to write scripts and produce and edit episodes, CW would not have been able to get the show on the air until March or April 2007, Ms. Ostroff said. That meant CW would need only 8 or so episodes to fill the spring schedule, but NBC did not want to commit to producing fewer than 13.
 During those discussions, Ms. Ostroff said, the two parties explored the possibility of allowing the show to be produced by another studio, specifically CBS Paramount or Warner Brothers Television, which are both affiliated with the CW network. But NBC balked, she said.
 ''A lot of people said this is never going to happen,'' she said. ''But we also knew that this was the perfect show to go with 'Everybody Hates Chris.' And we decided that if we could wait for the fall, the show would get more attention.''
 By the time the CW and other networks began to plan their fall 2007 schedules this spring, ''Aliens in America'' had lost its buzz in the trade. At some point NBC Universal changed its mind and decided to let the series be produced by Paramount and Warner. 
 Mr. Guarascio and Mr. Port were by then developing another series, ''The IT Crowd,'' a workplace comedy for NBC about a company's computer technology geek squad. NBC decided to pick that series up for use in a midseason spot on its 2007-8 schedule, which meant that Mr. Guarascio and Mr. Port could spend time working on ''Aliens'' before turning their attention to ''IT.'' CW also added a third executive producer to ''Aliens'' to serve as the show runner, Tim Doyle, formerly an executive producer of ''Jake in Progress,'' who early in his career also worked on ''Roseanne.''
 The cast was contractually committed to ''Aliens,'' and when production moved to Paramount, they received a bonus: The studio decided to shoot the 13-episode series in Vancouver rather than Winnipeg. 
 Now the creators must go back to a story that they first worked on nearly two years ago, never an easy task creatively. But Mr. Guarascio said that, if anything, the show's premise has become only more relevant as time has passed.
 The new series has not met with universal acclaim. The previews being shown on the CW Web site, cwtv.com, have drawn criticism on the Internet saying the program perpetuates negative stereotypes of Muslims -- not to mention of the clueless American Midwesterners -- and that it conflates numerous, distinct Middle Eastern and South Asian cultures. But its creators say the subjects touched on by ''Aliens in America'' are ones that are familiar to the CW's target audience.
 ''So often people feel alienated in their own community, in their school, or in their family or culture,'' he said. ''But we wanted to show something positive about that, where if you can just push past the differences on the surface of two people, you can find that there is so much that is similar going on with you.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Adhir Kalyan, right, plays a Pakistani Muslim exchange student living with an American family, from left, Lindsey Shaw, Patrick Breen, Dan Byrd and Amy Pietz. (Photograph by The CW Network) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORISM (78%); FOCUS GROUPS (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (76%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (76%); WRITERS (68%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%)

PERSON: BILL O'REILLY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



33 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: A Leap Forward, Or a Great Sellout?

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

 BODY:
Beijing 
 HOMEGROWN blockbusters were supposed to be China's answer to Hollywood. And, to some extent, the extravagant budgets and eye-popping special effects of ''Curse of the Golden Flower,''''The Promise'' and ''The Banquet'' did their job. For the past two years Chinese films have shattered box-office records here, while outperforming Hollywood imports.
 Yet far from inspiring national pride, these films, from the well-known directors Zhang Yimou, Chen Kaige and Feng Xiaogang, have sparked a heated, sometimes vituperative domestic debate about the future of Chinese cinema and whether the country's leading filmmakers are true artists or merely politically savvy hacks. 
 In recent months critics and younger directors have accused some members of the venerable so-called fifth generation of filmmakers -- a group that came of age in the 1980s and early 1990s with award-winning dramas like ''Raise the Red Lantern'' and ''Farewell My Concubine'' -- of forsaking their socially conscious past and selling out to the government. Perhaps worse, their films are not just being called overly commercial, they are also ''boring and hollow,'' according to Cui Weiping, a professor at the Beijing Film Academy, the country's leading film school. ''Big-budget films can certainly exist, but they don't have to be so ugly,'' he said. 
 Even some elements of the Chinese government, which has largely supported the emergence of big-budget films, have taken a stab at playing movie critic, labeling the films obscene and morally bankrupt.
 Despite the vitriol the filmmakers remain unrepentant. ''China's movie market is facing severe problems, as most of it has been occupied by foreign movies: Hollywood movies,'' said Mr. Zhang, one of those fifth generation directors, whose films range from the low-budget ''Red Sorghum'' to the special effects-laden ''House of Flying Daggers.'' ''If no one in China makes commercial movies, the entire market will be taken by foreigners, and then no one will care about Chinese culture and tradition.''
 The blockbuster mentality is a great leap for the country and its cinema. Until recently China was better known for its low-budget art-house films. Lavished with critical praise and Oscar nominations, such films made little money, either in mainland China or abroad. Some, like Mr. Zhang's ''To Live'' and ''Ju Dou,'' were even banned at home. 
 ''Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon'' changed all that. Released in the United States in late 2000, the film, a martial-arts and adventure story set in western China and directed by the Taiwan-born Ang Lee, went on to become the highest-grossing foreign-language film in American history, making $128 million there. It tacked on another $85 million in the rest of the world.
 The film industry, and the government, took notice. No longer content to cede the nation's biggest box office to films from Hong Kong and Hollywood, the most powerful directors also hoped to make films that could be successfully exported to the rest of the world during a time of growing interest in all things Chinese.
 Mr. Zhang dropped his small-town social dramas to make ''Hero,'' another elaborate martial-arts epic, which featured the Chinese star of ''Crouching Tiger,'' Zhang Ziyi. ''House of Flying Daggers,'' also starring Ms. Zhang, soon followed. And last December came ''Curse of the Golden Flower,'' the most expensive film ever made in China. For the $45 million ''Curse,'' produced in a country where a big-budget film used to cost closer to $7 million, Mr. Zhang created a gargantuan set, including a mesmerizing gold-laced imperial palace that took five months to build. He hired more than 20,000 extras for battle scenes and brought in three million chrysanthemums to create a spectacular backdrop to the film.
 Chen Kaige, Mr. Zhang's fifth-generation confrere and the director of ''Farewell My Concubine,'' has also supersized his ambitions and productions. In 2005 he released ''The Promise,'' a $35 million fantasy epic that was promoted as a Chinese ''Lord of the Rings.'' And a third Chinese director, Mr. Feng, who had often ruled the domestic box office with popular urban comedies like ''Cellphone'' and ''Be There or Be Square,'' decided he wanted to traffic in these more serious, Oscar-seeking films. He teamed up with his longtime partners, the Huayi brothers, for a $20 million Chinese version of ''Hamlet'' called ''The Banquet.''
 That film's formula mirrored that of ''Curse'' and ''The Promise'': a tragedy set in old China replete with martial arts, beautiful actors, gorgeous sets and costumes, and a dash of Shakespearean tragedy -- all to celebrate traditional Chinese culture. 
 Each film had an expensive premiere in China. There were elaborate television marketing campaigns and licensing and cross-promotional deals with Nissan, Toyota, Audi and Lenovo, the computer maker. Theater owners did their part, signing deals with the filmmakers that blocked other Chinese films from being shown during the blockbusters' runs. And the Chinese government, which had once blacklisted Mr. Zhang and Mr. Chen, added its considerable support by limiting competition from Hollywood films. 
 The result of all this marketing and political muscle was a record Chinese box office last year. ''Curse of the Golden Flower'' earned more than $37 million in China, making it the highest-grossing Chinese-language film in the country's history. That total was second only to the record of $44 million set by ''Titanic'' in 1998.
 But the box-office bonanza yielded few benefits. All three movies were savaged by critics and ridiculed by the Chinese news media. (China Daily, the state-run English-language newspaper, dismissed ''The Promise'' as ''another disappointing, lame movie,'' and the Communist Party School's newspaper published an article criticizing ''Curse'' as immoral and bloodthirsty.) 
 The anticipated Oscar victories never arrived. Overseas box-office returns were lackluster. And while receipts were robust in China, the films' production and marketing expenses were so great that none made much of a profit. 
 The directors have even been attacked by their fellow filmmakers, including Jia Zhangke, a rising star of the Chinese film industry whose ''Still Life'' won the Golden Lion for best film at the 2006 Venice Film Festival. ''Now filmmaking is more about money,'' said Mr. Jia, 37, a member of the so-called sixth generation, which specializes in gritty portrayals of China's urban life. ''This just shows how sad our industry has become. Some filmmakers think that if they do something similar to Hollywood, people here will like it.'' 
 The government's nomination of ''The Promise'' and ''Curse'' to carry China's banner in the foreign-language Oscar category the past two years has not helped the reputations of Mr. Zhang and Mr. Chen. Already viewed as cozying up to the authorities with their more palatable films, the two directors now confront suspicions that the nominations were payback of some sort, as was their selection for important roles during the opening ceremonies of the 2008 Olympic Games.
 Mr. Zhang comes in for much of the invective. His earlier films were lauded not just for their beauty but also for their (veiled) political criticisms. He is now being criticized for ignoring the struggles of the common people in favor of meaningless films about the follies of Chinese nobles. 
 ''His latest movies, though visually beautiful and commercially successful, no longer have the same deep meanings,'' Chen Xihe, a professor of film at Shanghai University, said of Mr. Zhang. ''He has changed from an extremely intelligent person who challenges the traditional system to a modest filmmaker who puts an emphasis more on market success.''
 Mr. Zhang scoffs at accusations that he is using his films to curry favor with the government. And just because his last few films have been laden with special effects, he says, does not mean he has rejected deeper themes forever. 
 ''This will not be a long-term thing,'' he said. ''Maybe the next movie I make will have very deep social and political meanings. It is hard to say. You cannot really design the periods of your life or artistic creation. Artistic creation is a result of interest and impulse.'' 
 Zhang Weiping, Zhang Yimou's longtime producer, said the director was merely evolving. ''When Zhang Yimou was young, he made many artistic movies because he just started out and didn't have much influence; few investors would dare to invest in his movies,'' he said. ''Therefore he could only make artistic movies. Now everything is different.''
 Mr. Zhang, the producer, added that he encourages Mr. Zhang, the director, to make blockbuster films that may give foreigners a better understanding of China.
 Mr. Feng, in an interview in his Beijing office during the filming of ''The Banquet,'' said his movies were changing with the times, in an era when people are looking for more leisure and entertainment. ''Now China has gradually adopted a market economy,'' he said. ''Movies have changed from a propaganda tool to an art form and now to a commercial product. If someone continues to make movies according to the old rules, he'll have no space to live in today's market.''
 China has no shortage of low-budget movies tackling social issues, as a younger crop of talented directors has emerged, including Mr. Jia, Lou Ye, Wang Xiaoshuai, Xu Jinglei and Wang Quan'an. But they have not been able to muster much box-office power, certainly nothing to compete with the homegrown blockbusters and Hollywood imports.
 And despite the mixed results of China's big-budget push, no pullback appears imminent. The state-owned China Film Group is backing the next film from John Woo (''Face/Off,'' ''Mission: Impossible II''), the $80 million action movie ''The War of the Red Cliff.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The directors Feng Xiaogang, top, Zhang Yimou and Chen Kaige. Above left, Cecilia Cheung in Mr. Chen's film ''The Promise'' (Photograph by Francois Guilot/Agence France-Presse-Getty Images
Above, Warner Independent Pictures
 right, from top, Reuters. (Photograph by Mychelle Damiau/Agence France-Presse-Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM SCHOOLS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); TICKET SALES (71%); MARTIAL ARTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (98%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



34 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION WESTCHESTER; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: More Rental Units for White Plains

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
WHITE PLAINS, a fast-growing suburban city that has approved construction of more than 2,400 ownership and rental apartments in its re-emerging downtown in the last eight years, is likely to increase that number by more than a third in the coming year.
 Two national developers -- AvalonBay Communities, a real estate investment trust in Alexandria, Va., and LCOR, a real estate and development firm in Berwyn, Pa. -- will be adding a total of about 930 new rentals to a real estate market that officials say is not even close to reaching its saturation point.
 ''We could take another 2,500 units,'' said Paul Wood, the city executive officer, ''and there would still be a demand for more residential units.'' 
 The United States Census Bureau estimated in 2005 that the population of White Plains was 56,733, up almost 7 percent from 53,077 in 2000. 
 The city's renaissance began about seven years ago with the opening of the City Center at White Plains, a 1.1-million-square-foot mixed-use development with rental apartments, stores and entertainment venues on the site of an abandoned Macy's department store. In the years since, construction has continued seemingly unabated.
 Mr. Wood observed that most rental buildings in the city were more than 95 percent occupied, and for-sale residential projects, like the 35-story 212-unit Trump Tower at City Center that was built two years ago, had sold out.
 Because many rental properties were converted to condominiums as interest rates dropped and renters seized the opportunity to buy, there is now a relative shortage of luxury rentals.
 ''The conversions depleted the supply,'' said Peter T. Gilpatric, a senior vice president for LCOR, ''but there are always people in transition who choose to rent. The market for that hasn't gone away.''
 Avalon, which has been building apartments in Westchester for close to a decade, had been eyeing White Plains for several years, according to Rachel Loeb, a development director for company.
 ''We've wanted to come here for a long time,'' she said, ''but it's been a matter of finding the right piece of dirt.'' 
 The company, which owns or has interests in 171 apartment developments in 10 states and the District of Columbia, has broken ground near downtown on a 14-story complex with 393 apartments.
 The $145 million complex -- a high-rise building next to a lower structure that resembles a series of town houses -- will include studios and one-, two- and three-bedroom units on a three-acre lot on Barker Street and Church Street. The site occupies a former parking lot several blocks away from the Metro-North train station and abuts a residential area of the city with some single-family homes. 
 Elsewhere in Westchester, Avalon has two apartment complexes in downtown New Rochelle: one with 412 units was completed several years ago, and another with 588 units is under construction. The real estate investment trust also has apartment complexes in Elmsford, Bronxville and Mamaroneck. 
 Rents at its newest complex, called Avalon White Plains, which will be ready for occupancy next summer, have not been set, although they are expected to be somewhat higher than rents at Avalon's towers in New Rochelle, where a studio apartment is about $1,350 a month, and three-bedroom apartments go for more than $4,000 a month, Ms. Loeb said. 
 ''The rates at our newest complex will be more in line with rents in White Plains,'' she said. At One City Place, part of the City Center Complex, for example, studio apartments go for $1,780 to $2,450 a month, and three-bedroom units rent for as much as $5,595.
 LCOR, which has built before in White Plains, agreed in June to buy two acres of land from the city for $21.5 million. It will build two 280-foot-high residential towers with 536 apartments on the site, a former parking lot on Bank Street next to the train station, which is in the city's urban renewal area.
 After the $230 million apartment complex is completed, LCOR may build a $40 million 200-room hotel on adjoining property it owns with another developer, Mr. Gilpatric said, adding that the company is in discussions with hotel owners. 
 The company, which has offices in Manhattan, Berwyn and Bethesda, Md., specializes in urban development, including large-scale multifamily residential, commercial and mixed-use properties.
 Four years ago, LCOR built Bank Street Commons, a 500-unit rental complex also near the train station in White Plains, not far from the planned new towers; it has since sold that property.
 LCOR's current proposal is unusual in that it calls for a 20 percent set-aside of below-market-rate units for those earning 60 to 100 percent of the regional median income. The median for a family of three, for example, is $86,850.
 In an agreement with the city that calls for payments in lieu of taxes, LCOR will receive about $29 million in property tax breaks over 15 years in exchange for building the lower price units. LCOR will pay taxes only on the land for 14 years (about $480,000 this year).
 After 2022, it will pay the full levy for the buildings as well as the land. But affordable apartments will be offered at below-market rates for the life of the building.
 The city's Urban Renewal Agency may serve as a conduit for obtaining bonds to finance the project. And in exchange for reserving 200 parking spaces on its new site for the city's use, LCOR is receiving a $6 million discount on the cost of the land.
 While the city and the developer have reached agreement on the deal and the Common Council approved the sale earlier this month, construction on the apartments will not begin for about nine months, Mr. Gilpatric said. In the interim, the company must obtain approval of the detailed plans for the development from the zoning board. 
 In marketing the apartments, both developers are aiming to attract young professionals who are priced out of Manhattan rentals. ''The burbs are a good place for young people to begin,'' Mr. Gilpatric said, noting that the city's busy bars, restaurants, coffee houses and outdoor cafes are evidence that White Plains is growing in popularity among people in their 20s and early 30s.
 But both companies will also market apartments -- in particular, their three-bedroom units -- to empty-nesters. ''Our largest units,'' said Ms. Loeb at Avalon, ''would appeal to renters who might be selling a home and haven't decided yet on their next move.''
 Whoever the renter, Mr. Gilpatric said, White Plains remains a hot market for apartments because its location in the center of Westchester makes it convenient for residents to commute to Midtown Manhattan, lower Connecticut or elsewhere in the county.

GRAPHIC: Photo: EXPECTING STRONG DEMAND -- A rendering of Avalon White Plains, a $145 million complex on Barker and Church Streets that is to open next year with 393 apartments. (AvalonBay Communities) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); APPROVALS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); SUBURBS (73%); RETAILERS (71%); CENSUS (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (66%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (56%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



35 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SPENDING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: If One Vacation Home Won't Do, How About a Bunch?

BYLINE: By EILENE ZIMMERMAN

 BODY:
LAURA SHAUGHNESSY and her husband, Bryan, had been thinking for years about buying a vacation home. ''We're a skiing family, so Bryan looked at land prices'' in Jackson Hole, Wyo., and Big Sky, Mont., Ms. Shaughnessy said. ''He thought maybe we should invest. But I couldn't picture myself skiing for the next 30 years in the same place.'' 
 Then, while sorting through the mail one afternoon a few years ago, Ms. Shaughnessy spotted a postcard advertisement that said, ''Do you want to vacation in the same place year after year?'' The postcard was promoting Exclusive Resorts, what is known in the travel business as a ''destination club'' whose members vacation in luxurious, club-owned homes throughout the world.
 In February 2005, the Shaughnessys, who live in Ridgefield, Conn., and have two teenage sons, became members of the club for 30 vacation days a year. They liked it so much that they upgraded last year to the 45-day level. 
 The current fee for a 45-day membership is $425,000, along with $29,900 in annual dues. For that price, members can spend 45 days at any of the club's 345 private homes -- usually with 3,000 to 4,000 square feet with three to four bedrooms -- and avail themselves of high-end amenities and concierge services.
 Last year, the Shaughnessys -- including Ms. Shaughnessy's brother, sister-in-law and two children -- spent Thanksgiving in Real del Mar, Mexico. While they lounged at the pool, a private chef cooked the holiday dinner.
 Destination clubs are a recent innovation in the shared-ownership industry, which began in the 1970s with time shares. Today's options also include fractional real estate and private residence clubs.
 Time shares and fractionals differ in the amount of time that buyers receive: a time-share purchase is typically a week, whereas a fractional purchase is usually three or four weeks. 
 The luxury versions of fractionals are private residence clubs, defined by industry analysts as any residence selling for more than $1,000 a square foot and offering amenities like a private storage facility, daily housekeeping and concierge services. 
 Typically, fractional owners want a vacation home but don't want to pay millions for it because they will live there only a few weeks a year, said Jeffrey B. Stern, a partner in the law firm Holland & Knight in Washington, who specializes in fractional real estate. With that in mind, he said, ''spending $300,000 is a bargain.''
 Time shares and fractionals are usually deeded and can be bought, sold or passed from one generation to the next, but they are not considered investments. ''Fractionals aren't marketed that way, and the contracts usually say you are buying this not as an investment, but for personal use and enjoyment,'' Mr. Stern said.
 Time shares can cost about $10,000 to $50,000 he said, but fractional properties are usually higher. ''Typically what I see is between $250,000 and $300,000,'' he said.
 According to Ragatz Associates in Eugene, Ore., which provides market research to the resort industry, fractional prices range from $24,730 to $70,435 a week; annual maintenance fees range from $5,410 to $8,700. 
 Ronald Schreiber owns two fractional interests at the Innsbruck, a luxury condo development that opened in Aspen, Colo., in June. He also owns fractional interests at the St. Regis Club and the Timbers Club, both private residence clubs in Aspen. Mr. Schreiber has spent roughly $1 million on those properties, which give him 12 weeks of time each year in Aspen.
 ''The practicality of it overcame me,'' he said. ''To get a product comparable to what I'm getting, you'd have to spend $3 million to $5 million on a second home plus taxes and maintenance. You couldn't do what I'm doing for the price I'm paying.'' 
 Mr. Schreiber, who is 53 and married with two sons, typifies the fractional consumer. 
 ''These buyers are boomers with families,'' said Howard C. Nusbaum, president of the American Resort Development Association, a trade group in Washington that represents both developers and buyers. ''They want to travel but also want time together in a dining room or in front of a flat-screen TV.''
 In destination clubs, members don't buy property but instead buy access to it, through a network of vacation homes in a variety of prime locations. There is a contract instead of a deed. Clubs agree to return most of the deposit -- generally 80 percent, but in some cases 100 percent -- if a member decides to leave, but that promise ''is a concern,'' said Jamie Cheng, co-founder and lead analyst at the Helium Report, an independent guide for wealthy consumers that covers the industry.
 A significant portion of each deposit is used to acquire property, so a club's ability to return it depends on the amount of cash it has on hand and the number of new members joining. ''For most clubs, two or three new members have to join before you can return one deposit,'' said Mr. Cheng. The largest clubs have raised capital in the last year to fund growth; that capital also provides cash to cover member resignations, said Mr. Cheng. He added, however, that none of the leading clubs were experiencing unusually high numbers of resignations or having any problem returning deposits.
 The first destination club, Private Retreats, opened in 1998, although it went bankrupt in 2006 after its name had been changed to Tanner & Haley. Today, there are 21 clubs and about 5,000 members, according to the Helium Report, and memberships range in price from $50,000 to $3 million. The four biggest clubs, in terms of the size of the membership and the amount of capital raised, are Exclusive Resorts, Ultimate Resort, Quintess and Private Escapes. Exclusive Resorts, the largest, has 2,900 members and $1 billion worth of real estate. 
 For wealthy consumers, the destination club concept is ''an economic no-brainer,'' said Steve Greer, founder and chief executive of the Lusso Collection, a club that began operating a year ago. ''The membership fee is equal to the down payment on a second home, and when you think about the annual dues -- ours is $26,500 -- the property tax on some of our homes is more than that.''
 Members join at different levels of use but have access to the same network of homes. Because the properties are shared, most clubs rotate the members who can stay at the most desirable destinations at peak travel times; members are told to book those vacations in advance -- as much as a year or two ahead of time. At some clubs, like Quintess, members pay more to vacation during school breaks and holidays.
 The clubs also offer last-minute travel, leaving open a certain amount of inventory -- ideally 30 percent, Mr. Cheng said -- for spontaneous trips. At Exclusive Resorts, half of all reservations are made less than 90 days before the vacation. 
 ALTHOUGH destination clubs are growing in popularity, the industry is young, and membership can have its risks. Clubs may not be able to acquire as many homes as projected or return deposits when members resign. Last July, the destination club Tanner & Haley filed for bankruptcy, affecting more than 800 members. In May, Ultimate Resort acquired most of the real estate assets of Tanner & Haley. Elizabeth Schlier joined Tanner & Haley in 2003 while it was known as Private Retreats. She left before the bankruptcy, concerned about the company's financial soundness. Ms. Schlier, who lives with her husband and two children in Vienna, Va., has her own information technology consulting business and the flexibility to travel throughout the year. 
 She decided to join another club, but did months of investigation first. ''I went to tax records in each country where companies owned property,'' she said. ''I asked for all their newsletters to see if the properties they said they were purchasing had been purchased.'' 
 Ultimately, she joined Private Escapes and has not regretted her decision. ''We get to vacation in these outstanding residences in great locations and I can stay as long or as little as I want,'' she said. ''I think the concept is fabulous.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Patrick, Bryan and Kevin Shaughnessy, near Bovey Castle in Devon, England. Members of the Exclusive Resorts destination club can stay at lodges on the castle grounds, as well as at hundreds of other sites that offer high-end amenities.
Elizabeth Schlier, horseback-riding with her children in the Dominican Republic, joined Private Escapes, a destination club, after conducting extensive research.
 Ronald Schreiber and his wife, Sherry, right, and a friend, Sharon Schwartz, at the Timbers Club in Aspen, Colo. He owns fractional interests in various Aspen sites. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); RESORTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (88%); THANKSGIVING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (69%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (69%); LAWYERS (63%)

COMPANY: HOLLAND & KNIGHT LLP (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (59%); ENGLAND (59%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



36 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: Restoring the Past to Improve the Future

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: Norfolk, Va. 

 BODY:
 ON a sunny June morning, the Attucks Theater here was filled with the lilting melody of ''I Shot the Sheriff.'' About a dozen people, ranging in age from about 7 to 70, were tapping out the tune on steel drums, following the lead of an instructor.
 Not long ago, a music class at the Attucks would have been unthinkable -- and the program is an example of changes, including the construction of new housing, that have begun to occur in the neighborhood known as the Church Street Corridor. 
 Early in the decade, the Attucks was disused and decrepit. The surrounding area, once the commercial center of the city's African-American community, had become a haven for drug dealing and prostitution. 
 ''You didn't even want to drive there,'' said LaShawn Fortes, an 18-year resident of Norfolk who is the director of HomeNet, a program that counsels low-income home buyers.
 The feeling then was that a revitalized Attucks Theater -- which was built in 1919 and had fallen into disuse in the 1950s -- could help revive the Corridor, which is about a mile north of downtown Norfolk. But attempts to renovate what had been one of the first legitimate theaters in the country owned and operated by African-Americans had run short of funds. 
 Enter Robert K. Jenkins Jr., a former lawyer for the Securities and Exchange Commission. Mr. Jenkins, who spent most of his life in Washington, had moved to Norfolk in 2000 to work for the Norfolk Redevelopment and Housing Authority. Soon after, the federal government created a program that offered tax credits to people who invest in low-income neighborhoods. (The bill authorizing these so-called New Markets Tax Credits was one of the last signed by President Bill Clinton.)
 Mr. Jenkins created a profit-making company -- Hampton Roads Ventures (which is wholly owned by the authority) -- to use the tax credits for projects like the restoration of the Attucks. His goal, he said, was to create catalysts for neighborhood redevelopment -- and if the catalysts involve preserving black history, so much the better.
 The theater (which reopened at the end of 2004 and which has an elaborate fire curtain depicting the Boston Massacre, in which its African-American namesake, Crispus Attucks, died in 1770) is now a showplace. The interior has been completely restored -- the work of Livas Group Architects of Norfolk -- with new facilities for visiting performers. Outside, the prostitutes and drug dealers are gone, and the neighborhood, while not bustling, is pleasant and tidy. 
 Walking through the theater, Mr. Jenkins, even though it was a Saturday, was wearing a gray suit and tassel loafers, the vestiges of years as a Washington lawyer. ''I wish you had been here to see the Temptations,'' he said, referring to a concert last February.
 But as much as Mr. Jenkins likes the Attucks Theater, he is happier to see new housing along Church Street, just north of the Attucks, where demand now exceeds supply, according to Ms. Fortes. That is a big change from the 1990s, when efforts to sell new housing in the Church Street Corridor failed. ''One of the things that the homeowners were interested in was the completion of the Attucks,'' Ms. Fortes said, ''and how this was going to stabilize the neighborhood.'' 
 One new development, called Westchurch, completed between 2004 and 2006, consists of 31 handsome single-family houses. Some were sold by the Housing Authority -- the developer of both the Attucks renovation and Westchurch -- at market prices, as high as $275,000, and others for as little as $110,000 to low-income purchasers. 
 ''I challenge you to tell me which is which,'' Mr. Jenkins said of the houses during a walk through the well-groomed community. Then he noticed a Hummer in the driveway of one of the houses. ''That gives it away,'' he said. But he said he was proud that people of means were buying in what had recently been a no-man's land.
 The Hummer notwithstanding, most of the people who live in Westchurch, he said, are teachers, engineers, police officers and other members of the middle class.
 Janet Sutton, a credit card specialist with HSBC, bought a house in Westchurch three years ago for about $130,000. She estimates that it is worth twice that much now, and that the appreciation is largely due to the renaissance of the Attucks as a neighborhood anchor. 
 Norfolk's mayor, Paul D. Fraim, said that the Attucks renovation is ''a prime example of what can be accomplished with innovative financing.''
 For Mr. Jenkins, 60, improving the fortunes of disadvantaged African-Americans has been a long-term goal. He grew up in Washington, where his father, Robert Sr., was an accountant and his mother, Bertha, a mathematician who worked for the National Security Agency. 
 While attending Howard University in the '60s, he said, he joined the Black Panthers. Though some Panther leaders advocated armed resistance to what they saw as racist policies, Mr. Jenkins said he never came close to committing a violent act. ''The only time I've ever seen a gun is in the holster of a cop,'' he said, adding that his Black Panther activities were limited to discussing ways of improving the economic status of his community. He left the Panthers, he said, when his membership threatened his mother's security clearance. 
 What he is doing with New Markets Tax Credits, he said, he sees ''as a mature version of what we were doing in the '60s.''
 After graduating from law school, Mr. Jenkins spent five years at the Securities and Exchange Commission. Later, he served as executive director of the District of Columbia Housing Authority. In 2000, Mr. Jenkins was offered a job as deputy director of the quasi-public authority in Norfolk. 
 When New Markets Tax Credits were announced, Mr. Jenkins was among the first to recognize their potential. Since 2003 the Treasury has allocated billions of dollars in credits, of which $50 million has gone to Hampton Roads Ventures. The company has applied for $150 million from the next round of credits, to be allocated in October.
 The program allows investors to take federal tax credits equal to 39 percent of their investment over seven years (5 percent in each of the first three years, 6 percent in each of the final four). Hampton Roads Ventures typically allocates its credits to a partnership consisting of a ''tax credit investor'' and a ''debt investor.'' 
 For a $1 million project, the tax credit investor might put in $280,000, and receive $390,000 in credits (that is, 39 percent of the entire $1 million). ''He's happy,'' Mr. Jenkins said. At the same time, the ''debt investor'' would put in $720,000 and receive the return on the entire $1 million. He's happy too, Mr. Jenkins said. 
 For the Attucks, the debt investor was the Housing Authority, which accepted a low interest rate -- 1 percent -- because of the project's importance. ''The project could not have happened without the new markets tax credits, which brought in practically free money for the project,'' said Delphine G. Carnes, a lawyer for Hampton Roads Ventures. ''At the end of the day, it's like a grant coming from the private sector.'' 
 The tax credit investor was Morgan Stanley, the New York investment bank. Ricardo Rodriguez, a vice president in Global Capital Markets at Morgan Stanley, said that the tax credits have allowed the company to make investments that would not be feasible without them. 
 Lately, Hampton Roads Ventures has taken its approach beyond Norfolk. In Richmond, the former Miller & Rhoads departmentstore is being turned into a hotel and 133 condos intended for first-time buyers, in part with a Hampton Roads Ventures investment. And in Roanoke, Mr. Jenkins helped renovate the historic Hotel Dumas, where the pioneering African-American filmmaker Oscar Micheaux lived. 
 Mr. Jenkins is also hoping to use credits from the next round to buy the grocery store in Money, Miss., where a half-century ago an African-American teenager named Emmett Till supposedly whistled at a white clerk. Mr. Till was later murdered. The store would become a civil rights museum. 
 And Mr. Jenkins has formed a partnership with the city of Miami's economic development department to finance housing for working people. Not only will the housing help Floridians, he said, but the profits will flow back to the authority. ''Whatever we do anywhere in the country,'' he said, ''will benefit the people here in Norfolk.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: A CATALYST FOR CHANGE -- Robert K. Jenkins Jr. helped restore the Attucks Theater in Norfolk, Va., which is home to music classes, right, in addition to performances. Its renaissance helped to spur Westchurch, a development of new houses, below. Mr. Jenkins is helping to turn the former Miller & Rhoads store, below left, in Richmond into a hotel and condos. (Photographs by Gary C. Knapp for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); PROSTITUTION (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); HISTORY (61%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



37 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: Sara Whitaker, Stephen Smith

 BODY:
Sara Natania Whitaker and Stephen Noble Smith were married Friday in the Shakespeare Garden at Northwestern University in Chicago. The Rev. Alfonso Perez, a Pentecostal minister and the bride's maternal grandfather, performed the nondenominational ceremony. 
 Ms. Whitaker, 33, is keeping her name. She is an account executive at Relay Worldwide, a sports and event marketing firm in Chicago. She graduated from Northwestern. 
 She is a daughter of Debora Perez of Los Angeles and Anthony Whitaker of Agoura Hills, Calif., and a stepdaughter of Carmen Whitaker. 
 Mr. Smith, 27, is a founder of Public Action for Change Today, a leadership-development and youth-empowerment organization in Chicago. He is to begin studying for a master's degree in comparative politics at the London School of Economics in October. He previously worked as a field organizer in Gaborone, Botswana, for Global Justice, an organization that encourages student involvement in promoting solutions to international social problems like AIDS. He graduated from Harvard and is the son of Jane and Mark Smith of Plano, Tex.
 The couple met at an antiwar protest in 2003. Political fervor unexpectedly turned to romantic fervor. 
 ''It took some convincing on my part,'' Mr. Smith recalled. ''She asked me, 'What's a white kid from Texas doing at an antiwar rally in Chicago?' Then she asked me what I wanted to be when I grew up.''
 Ms. Whitaker recalled his answer: '' 'I want to be a dad.' That's what got me. You have to remember, this is an antiwar protest. He was the only one who had showered in the last week. I thought: 'Wow, who's this good-looking guy? What's he doing here?' ''
 A month later, they were inseparable.
 ''He seemed too earnest,'' Ms. Whitaker said of her month's hesitation. ''He is.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 8, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A report last Sunday about the marriage of Sara Natania Whitaker and Stephen Noble Smith misstated the bride's age. She is 23, not 33.
 A report last Sunday about the marriage of Katherine Langendorf Abbott and Edward William Wartels misstated the given name of a great-uncle of the bridegroom, a founder of Crown Publishers. He was Nat Wartels, not Ned.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (74%); SPORTS MARKETING (71%); EVENT MARKETING (57%)

COMPANY: S A WHITE MARTINS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); BOTSWANA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



38 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Arts and Entertainment; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Charging Behind Enemy Lines, and Farther From a Lover's Embrace

BYLINE: By SYLVIANE GOLD. 
''Mary's Wedding,'' by Stephen Massicotte, is at the Westport Country Playhouse, 25 Powers Court, through Saturday; (203) 227-4177 or westportplayhouse.org.

 BODY:
There are many thrills that can be experienced in the theater. But the sensation of flying through a landscape on the back of a galloping horse is not usually among them. So there's a certain bravado -- even folly, perhaps -- in writing a play about a cavalry charge. Or about lovers whose feelings ripen on horseback.
In ''Mary's Wedding,'' the affecting new play at the Westport Country Playhouse, the Canadian playwright Stephen Massicotte gets us up in the saddle for both. With an impressive economy of means -- only one set, two actors and no intermission -- he has combined a fictional romance with the true story of a heroic World War I exploit that won a British Columbia lieutenant the Victoria Cross, England's highest military honor. 
 Lt. Gordon M. Flowerdew was an English-born immigrant who enlisted in a Canadian regiment, Lord Strathcona's Horse, at the start of World War I. Trench warfare did not offer much opportunity for mounted soldiering, but his moment of glory arrived in March 1918 in northern France, when he led a small contingent of his cavalrymen in a charge behind enemy lines, dispersed a larger force of Germans at the Battle of Moreuil Wood and received the wounds that would kill him. 
 Although little-known to Americans, the battle is regarded as a turning point for the war and for the Canadian sense of national identity. It was also one of the last cavalry charges in military history, and Mr. Massicotte's writing conveys the fear, confusion and pulse-pounding excitement of riding pell-mell into a battle. He puts us in the thick of it with an invented character, a young Canadian volunteer named Charlie, fighting under Flowerdew's command.
 Charmingly underplayed by the movie-star handsome Lee Aaron Rosen, Charlie is a farmer's son, a skilled horseman, a gung-ho volunteer and a lovesick puppy. Everywhere he looks, even in the midst of the fight, he sees Mary, the girl he left behind in Canada. So Hannah Cabell, the luminous actress who spends most of the play re-enacting Mary's memories of falling in love with Charlie, also plays the kindly Flowerdew in the scenes at the front.
 Recounted directly to the audience in story-theater style, ''Mary's Wedding'' actually takes place in western Canada after the war, in 1920. It is all a dream Mary has on the night before her marriage, and it includes flashbacks, flash-forwards, letters and other narrative strategies that make for a complicated and tricky structure. Tazewell Thompson's elegant, simple production never allows the storytelling to become confused; but after a while, the sheer weight of its mechanics becomes intrusive.
 What keeps the zigzag organization from finally defeating the drama is Mr. Massicotte's absolute control of the emotional arc of his characters. Mary, who is newly arrived from England, meets the farm boy Charlie in a barn, where both have taken shelter from a storm. Their shyness, their dawning rapport and the physical attraction that blossoms when he takes her home on horseback are palpable in the writing, and beautifully realized by Mr. Thompson's young actors.
 The physical production is first-rate as well. Linda Cho's costumes manage to have both a period look and a universal feel. Donald Eastman has created a wooden framework that serves admirably as the barn but also accommodates the climactic battle and a garden party, among other unlikely events. That we always seem to know precisely where we are has a lot to do with the extraordinary lighting of Robert W. Henderson Jr., who sends some mean lightning and exploding artillery shells across the stage and then, at the end, floods it with sunshine. 
 But don't let that fool you into thinking this play has a traditionally happy ending. Mr. Massicotte cares about history, and he is writing about a tragic blunder, a foolish, unnecessary war. When Mary tells Charlie that reciting a poem will ward off his terror, he chooses Tennyson's ''Charge of the Light Brigade.'' Enough said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Separate Peace: Lee Aaron Rosen as Charlie and Hannah Cabell as Mary in ''Mary's Wedding,'' which blends a fictional romance with the true story of a World War I battle. (Photograph by T. Charles Erickson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); WORLD WAR I (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); HORSES (78%); FILM (78%); WRITERS (77%); HISTORY (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (72%) CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (79%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007



39 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Bridgeport v. Bangladesh

BYLINE: By Peter Temes. 
Peter Temes is the president of a consortium of corporations and non-government groups focused on sharing knowledge about innovation in large organizations.

DATELINE: Fairfield 

 BODY:
FROM Greenwich to Stratford, Fairfield County is a prosperous place for most. Indeed, it is the wealthiest county in one of the richest states in the country.
But what about Bridgeport? Fairfield's exception to the rule, the hub of unemployment and the statistical center of the county's violent crime, Bridgeport is the home of hard-core poverty all too easy to ignore from a few miles' distance. 
 Every trend in urban renewal -- from slum clearance to empowerment zones to sports stadiums -- has been tried in Bridgeport since its decline began at the end of the Second World War. Some have mattered on the margins, but none have worked magic. 
 As an alternative to these government-driven, big-dollar experiments, the latest idea in economic empowerment to hit Bridgeport -- microfinance -- looks different enough to revive the tired spirits of long-time reformers and engage the not-yet-discouraged.
 Many well-intentioned people and agencies are talking about microlending in Bridgeport, and at least one group -- a group I volunteer with -- circulates a pool of about $100,000 in microloans, reaching as many as 200 people a year. 
 Without a doubt, the microfinance movement is doing tremendous good across the globe, offering poor people -- mostly women -- small loans to start modest businesses. The classic microfinance loan goes to buy a cow for a family that will then sell milk, or a cellphone for a ''phone lady'' who will then sell calls to neighbors in villages where there are no phones. 
 The secret of making microfinance work is to select borrowers with good habits, strong relationships with their neighbors and the kind of work ethic that predicts success. Across much of the world, even if you can check all these boxes, but you also happen to be a woman, or of the wrong family or color or caste, there's a fair chance you will be locked out of the formal banking economy. Microfinance is great at helping these folks fight their way into the formal economies of their nations. 
 But in the United States and in Bridgeport, if you're disciplined and hardworking, you don't need microfinance, because credit card offers already fill your mailbox, and banks are building new branches along Main Street to make it all the more convenient for you to deposit and borrow. 
 One highly successful microlender in Pakistan explained to me that her organization, like most high-profile microlenders in Southeast Asia, keeps its default rates low by screening borrowers based on their behaviors. ''We visit their homes,'' she explained. ''We look to see that they keep their homes clean, that their children are clean, that the mothers make sure the children go to school every day.'' 
 In Bridgeport, my colleagues and I would have doors slammed in our faces if we knocked on the homes of prospective borrowers and asked to inspect their children. And in fact, few poor people knock on our door. Most of the people who show up for our meetings have better educations and higher incomes than our target group, but they love being part of a community of future business owners. 
 So where are the poor who really need our help? Trapped in a web of problems from illiteracy to drug addiction to mental illness. It doesn't matter whom is to blame; the important fact is that microfinance doesn't work in the United States because we are a far more inclusive economy than the classic microfinance-makes-a-difference nation. Prospective borrowers in Bridgeport tell us that they value the advice from mentors and the feeling of community in our microfinance program just as much as they value the money, and often more so. 
 Most of these people, a low- to mid-income group who work tough jobs and hope for greater prosperity, have benefited little or not at all from the anti-poverty and economic development programs of the past few decades. But they tell us that sharing a meal in a meeting room with a lawyer from Darien who can give advice about incorporation and leases and a marketing executive from Greenwich with war stories about Internet advertising is invaluable. 
 It connects them to the lives and the wealth of the richer communities that circle this city. It reminds them that while money is meaningful, in our economy at least, a seat at the table as equals seems to be more important. But let's be honest, microfinance isn't going to do the job for those in Bridgeport's lowest income bracket so let's not get complacent in our search for other more effective anti-poverty measures.
 Microfinance holds great promise for uplifting the poor in developing countries. But in the United States and other developed countries, it is an opportunity for small-scale virtue, helping individuals connect across economic barriers, and bringing neighbors together. Certainly better than nothing, microcredit is hardly a breakthrough for Bridgeport. Small loans bring small scale opportunity for a few, but the people of Bridgeport and their neighbors are hoping for much more.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROFINANCE (92%); CHILDREN (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ETHICS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); VIOLENT CRIME (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); WORLD WAR II (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007



40 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; OP-ED; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: A Man, a Plan, a Park

BYLINE: By Leonard A. Zax. 
Leonard A. Zax, a lawyer, is providing pro bono assistance to the New Jersey Community Development Corporation, a nonprofit group working to create the Paterson Great Falls National Historical Park.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IF you are tired of the same old local parade and are looking for a different way to celebrate Independence Day, you should visit Paterson, N.J.
What does Paterson have to do with America's independence?
 Most Americans think of the Fourth of July as a time to celebrate political independence proclaimed by the Declaration of Independence and won in the Revolutionary War. But what about economic independence?
 Political independence did not secure economic independence. Long after the British surrendered, America remained heavily dependent on England for virtually everything from clothing to military supplies. 
 Alexander Hamilton recognized that America never could be truly free from Britain, nor from any other foreign oppressor, as long as our nation remained dependent on foreign goods. As the first secretary of the Treasury, Hamilton created the strategy to secure economic independence and founded the City of Paterson -- 15 miles west of New York City and home of the Great Falls, then the country's largest waterfall in volume width after Niagara -- to begin his plan.
 Hamilton selected Pierre L'Enfant, architect who had just completed street layout for the nation's capital, to devise a plan for Paterson that harnessed the power of the Great Falls for future factories. And he drafted the documents for the first corporation in New Jersey -- the Society for Establishing Useful Manufactures -- that would provide power from the Great Falls for more than 150 years.
 True to Hamilton's vision, Paterson became a great manufacturing city. Its factories produced the first mildew-resistant cotton sailcloth, which went into every ship in the American Navy; the first Colt revolver; and the first submarine. Paterson manufactured more locomotives than any city in the nation, and more silk than any city in the world. Famed products of the plants of Paterson also included the aircraft engines for the first trans-Atlantic flight, for many World War II bombers and for the Enola Gay, which dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima, ending the war in the Pacific.
 To recognize the legacy of Hamilton in Paterson, Congress has held hearings on legislation introduced by the New Jersey delegation to Congress that would create the Paterson Great Falls National Historical Park. Indeed, last Thursday, the House Resources Committee approved the necessary legislation, a big step toward enactment by Congress. The State of New Jersey has committed $10 million to the project, but it will require Congressional approval and about $10 million in federal financing to create the park.
 This is great news. Not only will this national and state park highlight Paterson's historical role in the early years of our nation, but it will also help improve the quality of life in the city, which is now one of the most economically depressed cities in America.
 To me, Paterson, where I was born and raised, has always been a special place. My grandparents settled there in the early 1900s, coming to America from Eastern Europe in search of freedom and opportunities. One of my grandfathers worked in a silk mill in Paterson and the other built houses for immigrant families, including his own. My father, a lawyer who headed the local bar association committee on immigration, for many years presented a copy of the Bill of Rights new citizens who moved to Paterson seeking a better life for their families.
 If you visit Paterson now, you will see the Great Falls that inspired Hamilton and you can explore the Paterson Museum, housed in an old locomotive factory. Sadly, some of the old buildings have been burned and many of the remaining ones are threatened. The new park will present Hamilton's broader vision of economic independence and opportunity, along with details about inventions, labor struggles, setbacks and successes. Visitors will be able to walk through landscaped parklands along the river as well as in and among some of the industrial buildings that will be restored. It will be a place embrace connections to other eras and opportunities, and to the city itself, as a living presence rather than as a museum or a Colonial theme park.
 Hamilton created the city achieve America's economic independence and provide opportunities for poor immigrants and minorities. In our post-industrial society, this park will help prepare a new generation of Americans for global citizenship. And it will help today's immigrants to Paterson and other cities benefit from a deeper understanding of the past, provide a better appreciation of the present and inspire directions for the future.
 Hamilton championed the spirit enterprise and opportunity that transformed this nation into a great economic power. Beginning in Paterson, he set America on a course toward economic independence, transforming a rural agrarian society based on slavery into a diverse economy based on freedom.
 You can celebrate America's political independence in any town where there is a parade and fireworks. To celebrate the country's economic independence, go to Paterson, where America's battle for economic independence began. Go this year and beat the crowds that will surely flock to the city once the new park opens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); NAVIES (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); HISTORIC SITES (69%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); APPROVALS (65%); TRAINS (63%); STATE PARKS (60%); NATIONAL PARKS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHUGOKU, JAPAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007



41 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1960 words

BYLINE: By Niall Ferguson. 
Niall Ferguson is the Laurence A. Tisch professor of history at Harvard University and the author of ''Empire: The Rise and Fall of the British World Order and the Lessons for Global Power.''

 BODY:
The Bottom Billion
 Why the Poorest Countries Are Failing 
 and What Can Be Done About It.
 By Paul Collier.
 205 pp. Oxford University Press. $28.
It is perhaps a sign of how far sub-Saharan Africa still has to go that the most vigorous -- and certainly the best publicized -- debate about its economic future in recent years has been between two American economists based in New York. On one side of the argument is Jeffrey D. Sachs, the director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University and the author of ''The End of Poverty.'' On the other is William Easterly of New York University, whose ironically titled ''White Man's Burden'' lampoons Sachs as a modern version of a 19th-century utopian. 
 There is indeed something faintly Victorian about Sachs's messianic yet parsimonious conviction that Africa can be saved with $75 billion a year in Western aid. Having spent so much of his energies in the 1990s extolling the virtues of the free market to any Eastern European government that would listen, Sachs now argues -- with equally unshakable conviction -- that the elimination of African poverty can be achieved through state planning. All governments need do is improve agricultural technology, provide antimalaria bed nets, treat diseases like hookworm and distribute antiretroviral treatments to the H.I.V.-infected.
 At times, he is rather reminiscent of Dickens's Mrs. Jellyby in ''Bleak House,'' ''a lady of very remarkable strength of character, who ... has devoted herself to an extensive variety of public subjects, at various times, and is at present (until something else attracts her) devoted to the subject of Africa; with a view to the general cultivation of the coffee berry -- and the natives.'' In Easterly's opinion, the present generation of white philanthropists is no more likely than earlier ones to succeed in a self-appointed (and at times unwittingly imperial) mission of enlightening the Dark Continent. 
 Now comes another white man, ready to shoulder the burden of saving Africa: Paul Collier, the director of the Center for the Study of African Economies at Oxford University. A former World Bank economist like Easterly, Collier shares his onetime colleague's aversion to what he calls the ''headless heart'' syndrome -- meaning the tendency of people in rich countries to approach Africa's problems with more emotion than empirical evidence. It was Collier who pointed out that nearly two-fifths of Africa's private wealth is held abroad, much of it in Swiss bank accounts. It was he who exposed the British charity Christian Aid for commissioning dubious Marxist research on free trade. And it was he who pioneered a new and unsentimental approach to the study of civil wars, demonstrating that most rebels in sub-Saharan Africa are not heroic freedom fighters but self-interested brigands.
 Collier is certainly much closer to Easterly on the question of aid. (He cites a recent survey that tracked money released by the Chad Ministry of Finance to help rural health clinics. Less than 1 percent reached the clinics.) Yet ''The Bottom Billion'' proves to be a far more constructive work than ''The White Man's Burden.'' Like Sachs, Collier believes rich countries really can do something for Africa. But it involves more -- much more -- than handouts. 
 Collier's title refers to the 980 million people living in what he calls ''trapped countries,'' those that are ''clearly heading toward what might be described as a black hole.'' Not all these people are Africans. Some live in Bolivia, Myanmar, Cambodia, Haiti, Laos, North Korea and Yemen. But 70 percent of the bottom billion live in Africa, and there is good reason to expect that proportion to rise.
 The notion of the bottom billion matters because most of today's development strategies (for example, the United Nations' Millennium Development Goals) focus much less discriminatingly on all developing economies -- what used to be called ''the third world.'' But the world is no longer (as it used to be) one-sixth rich and five-sixths poor. Thanks to explosive growth in Asia, it will soon be more like one-sixth rich, two-thirds O.K. and one-sixth poor. It is this last group, according to Collier, that we need to worry about. Average life expectancy for the bottom billion is just 50 years. Around one in seven children dies before the age of 5. 
 Collier's is a better book than either Sachs's or Easterly's for two reasons. First, its analysis of the causes of poverty is more convincing. Second, its remedies are more plausible. 
 There are, he suggests, four traps into which really poor countries tend to fall. The first is civil war. Nearly three-quarters of the people in the bottom billion, Collier points out, have recently been through, or are still in the midst of, a civil war. Such wars usually drag on for years and have economically disastrous consequences. Congo (formerly Zaire, formerly the Belgian Congo) would need 50 years of peace at its present growth rate to get back to the income level it had in 1960. Unfortunately, there is a vicious circle, because the poorer a country becomes, the more likely it is to succumb to civil war (''halve the ... income of the country and you double the risk of civil war'' is a characteristic Collier formulation). And once you've had one civil war, you're likely to have more: ''Half of all civil wars are postconflict relapses.''
 Why, aside from their poverty, have so many sub-Saharan countries become mired in internal conflict? Collier has spent years trying to answer this question, and his conclusions are central to this book. Civil war, it turns out, has nothing much to do with the legacy of colonialism, or income inequality, or the political repression of minorities. Three things turn out to increase the risk of conflict: a relatively high proportion of young, uneducated men; an imbalance between ethnic groups, with one tending to outnumber the rest; and a supply of natural resources like diamonds or oil, which simultaneously encourages and helps to finance rebellion.
 It was in fact Collier who first came up with the line ''diamonds are a guerrilla's best friend,'' and a substantial part of this book concerns itself with what economists like to call the ''resource curse,'' his No. 2 trap. As he sees it, the real problem about being a poor country with mineral wealth, like Nigeria, is that ''resource rents make democracy malfunction''; they give rise to ''a new law of the jungle of electoral competition ... the survival of the fattest.'' Resource-rich countries don't need to levy taxes, so there is little pressure for government accountability, and hence fewer checks and balances. 
 Countries don't get to choose their resource endowment, of course; nor do they get to choose their location. Trap No. 3 is that landlocked countries are economically handicapped, because they are dependent on their neighbors' transportation systems if they want to trade. Yet this is a minor handicap compared with Trap No. 4: bad governance. Collier has no time for those who still seek to blame Africa's problems on European imperialists. As he puts it bluntly: ''President Robert Mugabe must take responsibility for the economic collapse in Zimbabwe since 1998, culminating in inflation of over 1,000 percent a year.'' 
 If these four things are the main causes of extreme poverty in Africa and elsewhere, what canthe rich countries do? Clearly we can't relocate Chad or rid Nigeria of its oil fields. Nor, Collier argues, can we rely on our standard remedies of aid or trade, without significant modifications. As a general rule, aid tends to retard the growth of the labor-intensive export industries that are a poor country's most effective engine of growth. And much aid gets diverted into military spending. As for emergency relief, all too often it arrives in the wrong quantity at the wrong time, flooding into postconflict zones when no adequate channels exist to allocate it. 
 Trade, too, is not a sufficient answer. The problem is that Asia has eaten Africa's lunch when it comes to exploiting low wage costs. Once manufacturing activity started to relocate to Asia, African economies simply got left behind. Now, to stand any chance of survival, African manufacturers need some temporary protection from Asian competition. So long as rich countries retain tariffs to shelter their own manufacturers from cut-price Asian imports, they should exempt products from bottom billion countries.
 This, however, is not the most heretical of Collier's prescriptions. Reflecting on the tendency of postconflict countries to lapse back into civil war, he argues trenchantly for occasional foreign interventions in failed states. What postconflict countries need, he says, is 10 years of peace enforced by an external military force. If that means infringing national sovereignty, so be it. 
 At a time when the idea of humanitarian intervention is selling at a considerable discount, this is a vital insight. (One recent finding by Collier and his associates, not reproduced here, is that until recently, former French colonies in Africa were less likely than other comparably poor countries to experience civil war. That was because the French effectively gave informal security guarantees to postindependence governments.) Collier concedes that his argument is bound to elicit accusations of neocolonialism from the usual suspects (not least Mugabe). Yet the case he makes for more rather than less intervention in chronically misgoverned poor countries is a powerful one. It is easy to forget, amid the ruins of Operation Iraqi Freedom, that effective intervention ended Sierra Leone's civil war, while nonintervention condemned Rwanda to genocide.
 Still, it would be wrong to portray Collier as a proponent of gunboat development. In the end, he pins more hope on the growth of international law than on global policing. Perhaps the best help we can offer the bottom billion, he suggests, comes in the form of laws and charters: laws requiring Western banks to report deposits by kleptocrats, for example, or charters to regulate the exploitation of natural resources, to uphold media freedom and to prevent fiscal fraud. We may not be able to force corrupt governments to sign such conventions. But simply by creating them we give reformers in Africa some extra leverage.
 Although it stands on a foundation of painstaking quantitative research, ''The Bottom Billion'' is an elegant edifice: admirably succinct and pithily written. Few economists today can match Collier when it comes to one-liners. ''A flagrant grievance is to a rebel movement what an image is to a business.'' Calling the present trade negotiations a ''development round'' is like calling ''tomorrow's trading on eBay a 'development round.' '' And ''If Iraq is allowed to become another Somalia, with the cry 'Never intervene,' the consequences will be as bad as Rwanda.''
 If Sachs seems too saintly and Easterly too cynical, then Collier is the authentic old Africa hand: he knows the terrain and has a keen ear. They know it's garbage, one aid official told him when he queried Christian Aid's research, ''but it sells the T-shirts.'' 
 As Collier rightly says, it is time to dispense with the false dichotomies that bedevil the current debate on Africa: '' 'Globalization will fix it' versus 'They need more protection,' 'They need more money' versus 'Aid feeds corruption,' 'They need democracy' versus 'They're locked in ethnic hatreds,' 'Go back to empire' versus 'Respect their sovereignty,' 'Support their armed struggles' versus 'Prop up our allies.' '' If you've ever found yourself on one side or the other of those arguments -- and who hasn't? -- then you simply must read this book. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A blind man in Djibouti. Seventy percent of the world's poor live in Africa. (Photograph by Alex Majoli/Magnum)
 A child soldier in Congo, 2003. Collier describes civil war as a poverty trap. (Photograph by Evelyn Hockstein/Polaris) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); MALARIA (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); COFFEE (67%); ANTIVIRALS (65%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (65%); PHILANTHROPY (62%)

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (92%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); EARTH (58%) AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); DJIBOUTI (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007



42 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; THE CITY; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Is This Rate Rise Necessary?

 BODY:
Power outages don't occur every time the mercury rises in New York, but there have been enough episodes to make it seem that way. Consolidated Edison's answer is to upgrade the system. That's fine, but state regulators must make sure that consumers don't get mugged in the process. 
 The utility is proposing $1.4 billion in upgrades this year alone. It is also proposing a rate increase beginning next spring, which should raise enough money in one year to cover those upgrades. There's little doubt that the antiquated system-- which includes 60-year-old components -- needs fixing. But it's worth remembering that some of Con Ed's shortcomings have been human, not mechanical. 
 Last year's unforgettable nine-day disaster in Queens, for instance, resulted in part from the mishandling of equipment, from a failure to recognize how severe the problem actually was and from poor communication with customers. Even though the utility says it has worked hard to fix things, consumer confidence is not high; one could almost feel the dread last week when storms caused scattered outages in Queens, the southwest Bronx and parts of Manhattan's Upper East Side.
 This lack of confidence is reinforced by growing doubts among Con Ed's customers that the company truly means to put their needs before the interests of shareholders. Take, for instance, the proposed rate increase. Con Ed says residential bills would rise about 17 percent of the total average bill. That's true, but misleading. As Assemblyman Michael Gianaris of Queens points out, Con Ed only distributes electricity produced elsewhere, so its rates account for about half the monthly bill; the other half goes to producers. So the proposed increase would actually raise Con Ed's take to something like 35 percent. 
 And while it's true that Con Ed spent $90 million making repairs to its Long Island City network, the center of last year's big outage, that's a cost that Con Ed itself, not its customers, should absorb. 
 The public has also been poorly served by regulators at the Public Service Commission, which Gov. George Pataki stacked with pro-industry types. His successor, Eliot Spitzer, was rightly critical of the agency during his years as Attorney General, but must now remind the commission of its basic purpose, articulated 75 years ago, to ''give people adequate service'' at ''reasonable rates.''
 Meanwhile, Con Ed could do more than it has to encourage conservation. Demand has soared, from 10,950 megawatts on peak days in 1996 to an expected 13,575 megawatts this year. Part of the problem is that consumers -- the over-chilled restaurants and stores that leave their doors open to the sidewalk, for instance -- are both careless and profligate in their use of power.
 Con Ed preaches conservation, but if it really wanted to get serious, it might consider offering the kind of incentives found in Toronto, where customers who save power are rewarded with additional discounts on their bills. That would ease the pressure on Con Ed and help consumers on the bottom line. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (79%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); RESTAURANTS (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%); LAWYERS (50%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



43 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: iSee Into The Future, Therefore iAm

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
SO, Steve Jobs, what's next?
 The iPhone, after all, is already two days old, so it's been downgraded from the next big thing to merely new.
 And these days, new can seem so yesterday. What matters is what's next.
 Just take a spin around the media dial, where ''next'' is the go-to buzzword. 
 Movies: ''Next,'' released this spring with Nicolas Cage as a man who can see two minutes into the future (but what would they call the sequel?). Books: ''Next,'' by Michael Crichton, published last fall, about genetic engineering.
 Magazines: Newsweek's annual ''Who's Next'' issue, intended as counterprogramming to Time's Person of the Year issue, though Time has started a regular ''What's Next'' feature of its own. New York magazine recently had a cover article on home design titled ''The Next Next Things,'' an update on the title of Michael Lewis's 1999 book, ''The New New Thing.''
 Television shows: ''America's Next Top Model'' and ''Next'' on MTV (speed-dating with an edge).
 But the iPhone is the signature gadget for our obsession with what's next.
 Even before a single iPhone was sold, it felt as if we'd lived through an entire product lifecycle -- the unveiling, the hype, doubts about whether it could live up to the hype, what might be wrong with it and chatter about when the next iteration would arrive.
 ''About 45 minutes after it debuted, people were waiting for the 2.0 version,'' said Marian Salzman, chief marketing officer at the JWT ad agency and co-author, coincidentally, of ''Next Now: Trends for the Future.''
 Why the growing appetite for what's next?
 First, the word has obvious marketing appeal over ''new.'' To deem something ''next'' suggests you have special insight, and the clout of a hitmaker. New, by contrast, is a simple observable fact.
 But it's not just media outlets who deserve the credit (or blame) for everyone craning their necks to peer around corners.
 Many companies have sped up their cycles for offering new designs of everything from clothes to cellphones.
 Stores that once kept the current season's fashions on their racks for months are now replacing them after several weeks, a trend that's given rise to stores like H & M and Zara that specialize in so-called fast fashion.
 In a sense, technology has become fast fashion, too. People now wait less than two years before replacing their cellphones, compared with more than three years in the late 1990s. So a hit phone like the early version of the Motorola Razr, which initially sold for $500, fetches only about $30 now, with a contract.
 The increasingly global economy plays a role in the faster churn, said James E. Katz, who is director of the Center for Mobile Communication Studies at Rutgers University.
 Because of all the engineering talent around the world, he said, products can be developed more quickly, and with basic performance less of a concern, consumers buy them more for looks. Mix in what he calls ''the professionalization of hype,'' and the life of a hit product burns hotter, and shorter.
 ''The cycle from a little bud to a dead flower is becoming almost weeks,'' Mr. Katz said.
 In the last decade, too, bubbles have become almost the norm.
 Yes, they've been around for centuries (cue the tulip craze in 17th-century Holland). But now people are always on their toes to spot the next trend early, particularly if it means they can make a fast buck -- the tech-stock boom, a hot housing market, poker (online gambling was a particularly easy transition for all those former daytraders), and hedge funds for people wealthy enough to gain access. The money in Silicon Valley is now piling into online-video sites and social-networking creations like Facebook.
 ''We continue to bounce from big things to big things,'' said Rob Enderle, a technology analyst based in San Jose, Calif.
 But is the public's growing appetite for what's next a bad thing?
 Ms. Salzman of JWT said that trying to stay ahead of trends is ultimately unsatisfying.
 ''Because everything is on a faster cycle, there's no ability to ever be satiated,'' said Ms. Salzman, who adds that consumers show little evidence of brand loyalty, quickly moving on to a new fad or product.
 And victory is ever fleeting. Mr. Jobs must feel a bit like the quarterback who, having just won the championship, is asked, ''So, can you do it again next year?'' Before he could take a victory lap for the launching of iPhone, New York magazine asked on its cover, ''iGod: Is the mighty Steve Jobs due for a fall?''
 On the other hand, there are benefits to the hype surrounding products like the iPhone, said Edward Tenner, author of books about the role of technology in society, including ''Our Own Devices: How Technology Remakes Humanity,'' and ''Why Things Bite Back: Technology and the Revenge of Unintended Consequences.''
 It helps build the kind of demand, he said, that is needed to pay for the enormous research and development costs of building a product like the iPhone.
 ''With the stakes going higher and higher, the mechanics of hype are born,'' Mr. Tenner said. ''It's the only way something like this can be marketed.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (Drawing by Adam Haynes) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); WRITERS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (64%); FASHION & APPAREL (63%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (55%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (54%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: JWT (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (73%); NICOLAS CAGE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



44 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: Let Blair Be Blair

 BODY:
It is already clear what Tony Blair's first challenge will be in his new job as international envoy to the Middle East. Unless he stands up to the White House and insists that his responsibilities include peacemaking -- not just fund-raising and ''institution building'' for the embattled Palestinian party Fatah, as the Americans insist -- he will quickly be marginalized. You don't send a Tony Blair into a raging conflagration to stand on the sidelines and distribute charity. 
 The Palestinians desperately need economic development and better institutions. But these goals cannot be realistically separated from the larger challenge of restoring their belief in a livable future in a viable Palestinian state. The job of peace envoy is extremely challenging, requiring a leader of Mr. Blair's prominence and skills. The job of everything-but-peace-envoy is a cynical waste. 
 That was the unfortunate experience of the previous envoy, James Wolfensohn, the former World Bank president. Few people know more about fund-raising and institution building than him. But he couldn't make progress in the face of an immobilized peace process, an imminent Palestinian civil war and an American president and secretary of state who wouldn't deeply engage in peacemaking and refused to let anyone else try. 
 Mr. Blair's greatest talent is his ability to persuade, shame and wheedle people into doing things they would just as soon not do. He should be allowed to use it.
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, to whom the White House now expects Mr. Blair to defer, regularly travels to the region but has repeatedly declined to put American influence to any constructive use. She has yet to propose a Rice plan and challenge those leaders to accept it. Nor has she pressed Israel's politically wounded prime minister, Ehud Olmert, to take the necessary steps he feels too weak to take on his own, like a full settlement freeze.
 Mr. Blair might not have been the ideal choice for this job. But he brings real international stature and, we would think, a large claim on support from President Bush, with whom he stuck loyally in Iraq at a huge cost to his domestic standing and political legacy. As British prime minister, Mr. Blair felt a need to swallow his pride and go along in silence. If he means to be useful in the Middle East, he now needs to push back and make clear that the role of a peace envoy is to negotiate peace. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); AL FATAH (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (93%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%); EHUD OLMERT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



45 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2586 words

HEADLINE: Can She Turn Yahoo Into, Well, Google?

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

 BODY:
IN early May, a little more than a month before she became president of Yahoo, Susan L. Decker found herself dining at Gorat's Steak House in Omaha along with her husband and two of the restaurant's most famous regulars: Warren E. Buffett and Bill Gates. 
 She was in town to join the board of Mr. Buffett's holding company, Berkshire Hathaway, and had come to the legendary investor's attention through recommendations from Charles Munger, his longtime associate; Donald E. Graham, the chairman of the Washington Post Company; and David S. Gottesman, a fellow Berkshire board member. 
 ''She passed some pretty tough tests when she got A-pluses from all three,'' Mr. Buffett recalls. He describes Ms. Decker as a ''home run'' for a Berkshire board seat, because of her independence, interest in the company, dedication to shareholders and business savvy. ''Sue is 100 percent on all four of those,'' Mr. Buffett says, making him just one of Ms. Decker's many fans in corporate boardrooms. 
 In her ascent from financial analyst to head of research at a major Wall Street brokerage firm to chief financial officer and now president of Yahoo, Ms. Decker's smarts and acumen have drawn praise from other well-known business leaders -- including Steven P. Jobs and Craig R. Barrett, who named her to the boards of Pixar AnimationStudios and Intel, respectively, and Hamilton E. James, president of the Blackstone Group.
 Now Ms. Decker's abilities will be tested as never before. Along with the Yahoo co-founder Jerry Yang, 38, who stepped in as chief executive last month in a management shakeup, Ms. Decker, 44, faces the daunting challenge of pulling Yahoo from under the shadow of Google, rebuilding morale inside the company, attracting new top-notch recruits and, maybe hardest of all, delivering far better results for Yahoo's long-suffering investors. The company's shares are trading at around $27, down 37 percent from a high of more than $43 in January 2006.
 By many measures, Yahoo remains one of the most successful companies on the Internet.It attracts nearly 500 million visitors around the world every month to its Web sites, where it offers a plethora of content and services, from news, sports, financial information and entertainment to e-mail, photo-sharing and online communities. And it is one of the largest sellers of Internet advertising, which it places both on its Web portal and on other high-traffic online destinations like eBay, Comcast.com and hundreds of newspaper Web sites. Last year, it earned $751 million in profits, on sales of $6.4 billion. 
 Yet over the last 18 months, Yahoo has suffered its biggest slump since the collapse of the dot-com bubble. The company has been eclipsed by the phenomenal rise of Google, which handily beat Yahoo in the most lucrative business on the Internet: search and search advertising. As a result, Google now makes far more money in one quarter than Yahoo does in a year, and Google's market value of $162.8 billion is more than four times that of Yahoo, which stands at $36.5 billion. As Yahoo races to close that gap, its bread-and-butter business -- the sale of banners and other graphical ads -- is showing signs of weakness amid growing competition from MySpace, Facebook and countless other sites. 
 Analysts, meanwhile, say that Yahoo, a company with 12,000 employees, has grown bureaucratic and slow, causing it to miss out on some of the hottest Internet trends, like social networking. They say it has also missed out on some of the smartest potential acquisitions, including YouTube, which was bought by Google, and Facebook, which Yahoo once considered buying. Now Facebook says it is not for sale, and even if it were, the price would likely be far higher than the $900 million or so that Yahoo offered last summer. 
 DURING the last several months, Terry S. Semel, the former Warner Brothers executive who ran Yahoo until two weeks ago, started a number of initiatives, including a reorganization of management ranks, to revive the company's fortunes and spirits. When those steps proved not enough to stop an exodus of senior executives or to placate increasingly restless shareholders, Mr. Semel stepped aside. 
 Now, some analysts question whether Mr. Yang and Ms. Decker, both of whom are generally well liked and respected inside Yahoo, are the right team to lead the company. Neither has extensive operational experience, and both are intimately linked to the strategy that has landed Yahoo in its current malaise. Yet both have said recently that Yahoo does not need a new strategy, but rather, must do a better job of executing its existing plan. Many people on Wall Street and in Silicon Valley, as well as some inside the company, doubt that better execution alone will be enough. The suggestions for more dramatic changes range from a merger or sale, to Yahoo's exit of the search business. 
 ''If I were them, I would be considering everything, because more of the same seems unlikely to produce encouraging results,'' said Derek Brown, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald. 
 Yahoo executives have said that they expect the company to remain independent and that they are not planning to jettison the search business.
 While Mr. Yang is expected to provide the technological vision and to be Yahoo's face to Wall Street and other audiences, it is Ms. Decker who will be charged with running most of the company's day-to-day business. It is largely a new challenge for an executive who spent most of her career tending to financial matters. She was Yahoo's chief financial officer since 2000, and only in December began running an operating unit, the advertiser and publisher group. The unit, which was charged with generating the bulk of the company's revenue, has since been dissolved, but most of its functions are under Ms. Decker's supervision. 
 Ms. Decker declined to be interviewed for this article. But several people who know her and have worked with her say that whatever she lacks in operating experience, she makes up for in intelligence and analytical skills. 
 ''She combines the attributes of being a nice person and being able to make a tough decision,'' said Mr. James of the Blackstone Group, who ran the banking group of Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette while Ms. Decker ran its research arm. (Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette was absorbed by Credit Suisse First Boston in 2000.) 
 As leader of a group of independent-minded research analysts, Ms. Decker demonstrated skills that will be handy in running Yahoo, Mr. James said: ''She's one of the few people around who can successfully manage a group of people who are creative, highly paid, have big egos and have an artists'-colony temperament.''
 Ms. Decker, who grew up in Denver, earned a degree in economics and computer science at Tufts University. She later worked as a computer programmer at a General Electric subsidiary before going to Harvard Business School, where she met her husband, Michael Dovey, who became an investment banker. In her 14 years at Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette, first as a research analyst covering the newspaper industry and later as director of equity research, Ms. Decker quickly developed a reputation as a star analyst and independent thinker. 
 ''She can't be easily persuaded about things by other people without doing the analysis herself,'' said Dennis H. Leibowitz, managing general partner at Act II Partners, a hedge fund, who worked with Ms. Decker at D.L.J. Shortly after Ms. Decker joined Yahoo in mid-2000, the bottom fell out of the online advertising market, as an untold number of dot-coms shut their doors. During that period, as Yahoo's shares lost 90 percent of their value, Ms. Decker was credited with helping to reset expectations both inside and outside the company, cementing her reputation as a straight shooter and a savvy financial operator. 
 ''She was extremely well thought of as a C.F.O.,'' said Christa Quarles, an analyst at Thomas Weisel Partners. ''But it's one thing to manage the results and another thing to manage an organization.''
 Some company insiders say, however, that from the beginning of her tenure, Ms. Decker was far more closely involved with Yahoo's business than most traditional finance chiefs, formulating strategy and working closely with managers to help them understand how the performance of their own business units affected Yahoo's financial results. 
 Colleagues describe Ms. Decker as intense and hard-driving. Once, in the wee hours of the morning as she prepared for a conference call, she peppered Jeff Weiner, then a senior search executive, with increasingly complex questions over instant messaging. ''Each answer I provided led to deeper questions,'' said Mr. Weiner, who is now executive vice president of Yahoo's network division. ''You could see her mind at work.''
 But her colleagues and friends also describe her as unpretentious and fun-loving. Two years ago at a Clinton Global Initiative party in New York that she attended with Margie Fox, a college friend, Ms. Decker appeared surprised to be surrounded by so many celebrities.
 ''She was unaware of how much of that world she is,'' said Ms. Fox, who runs a marketing firm, Maloney & Fox. Despite her intense job, and a commute of more than one hour from her home in Marin County, north of San Francisco, to Sunnyvale in the heart of Silicon Valley, Ms. Decker finds time to stay physically active. She has run marathons, and she likes to ski and hike. She rode a motorcycle through New Zealand with her husband and once arrived at a Yahoo employee meeting riding a Harley-Davidson.
 Over the past year or so, Ms. Decker has played a leading role in helping to transform Yahoo from a seller of ads on its own site into a seller and broker of ads across the Web. She led negotiations of a multiyear advertising deal with eBay and of a separate advertising and content distribution alliance with a consortium of companies representing some 260 newspapers. 
 ''The newspaper deal could be meaningful,'' said Ms. Quarles at Thomas Weisel. But she said the full financial impact of this and other alliances might not be felt until next year. 
 Ms. Decker also was deeply involved with a deal to acquire Right Media, a marketplace where online advertisers bid for ad space on sites across the Web in real time.The deal has yet to close.
 In all those negotiations, Ms. Decker showed herself willing to delve into the minutiae of online advertising and other aspects of Yahoo's business. 
 ''The deal wouldn't have gotten done without her,'' said John Donahoe, president of eBay Marketplaces, of the eBay deal. Mr. Donahoe, who was her counterpart during more than two months of negotiations that led to the agreement in April 2006, said that Ms. Decker worked to understand details like which types of ads would be acceptable to eBay sellers and which would not, and challenged Yahoo's own product teams to modify their technology to deliver those ads. 
 ''There were several instances when we hit roadblocks, and she was very creative in thinking of ways to get around them,'' Mr. Donahoe said. 
 Similarly, Yahoo insiders credit Ms. Decker with turning an agreement with newspaper companies from a simple deal to sell employment classifieds through Yahoo's HotJobs into a wide-ranging partnership. Under the terms of the deal, which was announced in November and later expanded, Yahoo and newspapers will share news stories, while newspapers will help sell ads on Yahoo, and Yahoo sales people, in turn, will sell ads on newspaper sites. 
 Ms. Decker also played an active role in many other recent initiatives, including the fine-tuning of a new search advertising system known internally as Project Panama. ''I don't think that a Saturday went by without multiple hours of detailed dialogue with Sue to help her understand what we were doing with Panama,'' said Mark Morrissey, senior vice president for global product management.
 To understand the intricacies of the new system, Ms. Decker met with marketers and agencies and sat in on multiple customer service calls, Mr. Morrissey said. (The Panama system, which was rolled out in February, is expected to start benefiting Yahoo's bottom line in the current quarter.)
 But analysts say Ms. Decker is also intimately tied to many of Yahoo's recent shortcomings. They include not only the delays in Panama, but also a series of mistakes in communicating with Wall Street about those delays, which have hurt Yahoo's shares. And they include the failure not only to acquire Facebook, but also to secure lucrative deals to sell advertising on Facebook and MySpace, which were won by Microsoft and Google, respectively.
 ''Yahoo was nowhere to be found,'' said Scott Kessler, an analyst at Standard & Poor's.
 Even the recently announced acquisition of Right Media, which Yahoo considers a success, could have gone better. Yahoo paid less than $45 million for a 20 percent stake in Right Media last October. By the time Yahoo decided to buy the rest of the company in April, Right Media's value had soared, forcing Yahoo to pay an additional $680 million for the remaining 80 percent.
 ''That, again, is an indication of a lack of decisiveness,'' Mr. Kessler said. ''At the end of the day, Sue had some role to play in a lot of those decisions and a lot of the mistakes made.''
 Ms. Quarles of Thomas Weisel fears that Yahoo's recent troubles in display advertising may be a sign that history is about to repeat itself. As Yahoo stood still in search advertising, Google innovated at a furious pace to become the runaway leader in that business, she said. Then, when Yahoo finally turned its attention to search, with Project Panama, it stopped innovating in display advertising, just as Google began aiming at that market. 
 With its planned acquisition of DoubleClick, an online ad firm, Google could encroach further into the one big business where Yahoo still leads. 
 ''It's going to be challenging,'' Ms. Quarles said. 
 Still, even some rivals express confidence in Ms. Decker's abilities. Sheryl Sandberg, a senior executive at Google whose husband, David Goldberg, ran Yahoo Music until earlier this year, has become a good friend of Ms. Decker. The two have bonded over conversations on everything from business to work-life balance. ''It is nice for me to have a friend who is a very full-time working mother, like I am,'' Ms. Sandberg said. (Ms. Decker has three children.) 
 Ms. Sandberg said Ms. Decker brings a level-headedness to her job that comes in part from having observed and studied businesses go through good and bad times. ''Because of her background as an analyst, she has a broad perspective on what industries go through and what companies go through,'' she said. 
 IF Ms. Decker manages to pull Yahoo from its current slump, she may be up for an even bigger job. She had long been rumored to be the heir apparent to Mr. Semel, and Mr. Yang's appointment as chief executive surprised some people. 
 But she'll likely have to deliver results quickly, or Yahoo shareholders could become restless again, and turn Ms. Decker into the latest top executive to be shown the door. 
 Even so, she'll still probably have some fans in high places. ''We made the right choice,'' Mr. Buffett says of Ms. Decker. ''She's young, so she's going to be there a long time,'' he says, referring to the Berkshire board. ''When we next have to find a director, I'd be very happy if we find someone like Sue.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Susan Decker, left, Yahoo's president, and Jerry Yang, right, the C.E.O., have to revive Yahoo, now that Terry Semel, center, has left. Some critics wonder if the two longtime employees will make enough big changes. (Photographs by: Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. 8)
 Susan L. Decker (Photograph by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: ''More Revenue, but . . .'' Yahoo's revenue has risen over the last three years, but there's a hitch. Its revenue costs are also rising, and have taken a bigger percentage of profits in each of those years. (Source: Yahoo)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (84%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); SECURITIES BROKERS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); SEARCH ENGINES (66%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%); SECURITIES TRADING (61%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (95%); GOOGLE INC (85%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (55%); INTEL CORP (54%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%); BX (NYSE) (55%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (79%); DONALD E GRAHAM (58%); JERRY YANG (58%); TERRY SEMEL (58%); BILL GATES (57%); STEVEN JOBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (88%) NEBRASKA, USA (88%); BIHAR, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (88%); INDIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



46 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Fuel Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman's June 24 column, ''The Capitol Energy Crisis,'' rightly chides Congress to do more than the much-ballyhooed 10-mile-per-gallon increase in fuel economy recently passed by the Senate. But there are many reasons, beyond global warming, why this landmark legislation should be stronger. 
 First, consumer pocketbooks are being clobbered by rising gasoline prices. Americans are spending more than $1,000 more a year on gasoline than they were just five years ago. Second, our economy staggers under the burden of exporting half a billion dollars a day for oil imports.
 Third, it has become evident that the United States is weaker and our enemies stronger because of our dependence on imported oil. It is this recognition by the public that the dangers of our nation's oil addiction are multifaceted and not just an environmental problem that created the earthquake in the Senate.
 Right now, there are lots of ways for the auto industry to get around this legislation. Moving forward, it is critical we close these escape hatches. If we don't, in 10 years we will be in the same place we are today.
 Just check the auto industry's track record. Unless forced, it does not improve fuel economy -- not for the consumer, not for national security and not to prevent the worst impacts of global warming. 
 Mark Cooper Director of Research, Consumer Federation of America Washington, June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



47 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: In Land of Khakis, a New Focus on High Style

BYLINE: By LIBBY SANDER

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 1 

 BODY:
Mayor Richard M. Daley -- who moves about town in perfectly nice, but not overly nice suits -- is hardly the picture of fashion-forward dress with his blue shirts and the occasional striped tie. 
 But no matter: Mayor Daley, now serving his sixth term, has made the nurturing of Chicago's fledgling fashion industry one of his pet projects. He is determined to remake the city as a fashion hub, even though it has often seemed to display a fashion sense that reflects his own, with all the flair of a golf shirt and khakis.
 ''These are great artists,'' Mr. Daley said recently of the young designers whose careers he hopes will take off -- and remain -- in Chicago. Fashion, the mayor said quite sincerely, ''is the heart and soul of the city.'' 
 So, with strong guidance from City Hall, the city has started an ambitious plan to support young fashion designers and to try to prevent them from leaving for the coasts, where design jobs are more plentiful. Some of the 250 or so designers here are in the beginning stages of their careers, sewing samples in their living rooms, while others are more established. 
 In response to a reporter's question on Friday, Mr. Daley elaborated on the reasons for his support: ''Fashion designers add excitement and flair to the city. They attract attention from around the nation and the world.'' ''And,'' he added, ''they create jobs.''
 Last year, the mayor created a position in the city's Department of Cultural Affairs to focus on helping fashion designers and linking them with the local industry they need to thrive. Melissa Turner, a former lawyer turned fashion advocate who took the job, has since become the city government's official face of fashion. 
 Ms. Turner plans Fashion Focus, Chicago's equivalent of Fashion Week. She organizes shopping trips to some of the neighborhood boutiques selling items by emerging designers. Later this summer, she will start a Web site compiling industry and business resources for designers, a must-have in a city with no centralized fashion district, she said.
 Ms. Turner acknowledges that the city's hands-on approach to fashion is unusual. Unlike the established fashion capitals, where the industry is ingrained in the local economy and history, a city like Chicago needs a little more help from local government to get things moving, she said.
 ''It is a different approach to cultivating artistic talent,'' Ms. Turner said. ''The goal is definitely to get a very good, solid foundation laid, and then to keep building on that to support the different levels of designers here.''
 Though Fashion Focus's weeklong whirlwind of fashion shows and shopping tours has been well-received since its inception in 2005, its debut in a Midwestern city known for sharp-elbowed politics -- but not quite for style -- was met with some amusement back East.
 ''At first there was a sort of snicker,'' said Lee Trimble, the fashion director for Gen Art in New York, a group that promotes emerging artists, including fashion designers, and has an office in Chicago. ''It seemed an oxymoron for a city in the Midwest to have a fashion week. Not to sound snarky, but honestly, that was the feeling.''
 Undeterred, Mr. Daley pressed on. The next year, he appointed Ms. Turner and created the Fashion Advisory Council, a group of designers and industry experts. 
 The last time a Chicago mayor tried to jump-start the city's flagging apparel industry, acid-washed jeans and shoulder pads reigned. That was in 1987, when Mayor Harold Washington created a city agency to promote the sewn products industry here. Mr. Daley's plan ''is simply taking Mayor Washington's vision to the ultimate,'' said Dorothy Fuller, the president of the Apparel Industry Board Inc., the agency created by Mr. Washington. ''To have a city agency behind you is a great deal of help, and it's unique.''
 Lara Miller is just the kind of designer Mr. Daley hopes will stay in Chicago. Ms. Miller, 27, a native Chicagoan, began selling her free-form hand-loomed garments at local boutiques while still a student at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. 
 ''Chicago is just part of who I am,'' said Ms. Miller, who often listens to Cubs games while working in her studio. ''In New York and Los Angeles, it's a lot more competitive. You're a little fish in a really, really big sea.''
 At Habit, a boutique in the Wicker Park neighborhood that features emerging designers, about half of whom are based in Chicago, the owner, Lindsey Boland, said she was content to market her clothing line, superficial inc., locally. 
 ''I'm not pursuing a national market,'' said Ms. Boland, 34, a graduate of Parsons the New School for Design in New York City who grew up near Chicago and moved back here a few years ago. ''I'm happy with my Chicago market.''
 She welcomes the city's involvement. ''It's really exciting to feel there are people trying to put programs out there that will help you, give you forums to show your work.''
 And though Ms. Miller now sells her clothing line in 16 states, including New York and California, hometown pride keeps her in Chicago.
 ''I don't expect it to be glamorous,'' Ms. Miller said. ''I just want it to be fun.''
 As for the mayor, even he says the city has only just begun to perfect its strut down the proverbial catwalk. ''We're going to keep working at it,'' Mr. Daley said. ''We're not going to say we're there yet.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lindsey Boland owns Habit, a boutique in the Wicker Park neighborhood of Chicago that features emerging designers, about half of whom are based in the city. (Photograph by Sally Ryan for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); FASHION SHOWS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); JOB CREATION (67%); RETAILERS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007



48 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Money for Nothing

BYLINE: By BARRY SCHWARTZ. 
Barry Schwartz, a professor of psychology at Swarthmore College, is the author of ''The Paradox of Choice: Why More Is Less.''

DATELINE: Philadelphia 

 BODY:
 NEW YORK CITY has decided to offer cash rewards to some students based on their attendance records and exam performance. Diligent, high-achieving seventh graders will be able to earn up to $500 in a year. The plan is the brainchild of Roland G. Fryer, an economist who has been appointed as ''chief equality officer'' of the city's Department of Education.
 The assumption that underlies the project is simple: people respond to incentives. If you want people to do something, you have to make it worth their while. This assumption drives virtually all of economic theory. 
 Sure, there are already many rewards in learning: gaining understanding (of yourself and others), having mysterious or unfamiliar aspects of the world opened up to you, demonstrating mastery, satisfying curiosity, inhabiting imaginary worlds created by others, and so on. Learning is also the route to more prosaic rewards, like getting into good colleges and getting good jobs. But these rewards are not doing the job. If they were, children would be doing better in school.
 The logic of the plan reveals a second assumption that economists make: the more motives the better. Give people two reasons to do something, the thinking goes, and they will be more likely to do it, and they'll do it better, than if they have only one. Providing some cash won't disturb the other rewards of learning, rewards that are intrinsic to the process itself. They will only provide a little boost. Mr. Fryer's reward scheme is intended to add incentives to the ones that already exist. 
 Unfortunately, these assumptions that economists make about human motivation, though intuitive and straightforward, are false. In particular, the idea that adding motives always helps is false. There are circumstances in which adding an incentive competes with other motives and diminishes their impact. Psychologists have known this for more than 30 years.
 In one experiment, nursery school children were given the opportunity to draw with special markers. After playing, some of the children were given ''good player'' awards and others were not. Some time later, the markers were reintroduced to the classroom. The researchers kept track of which children used the markers, and they collected the pictures that had been drawn. The youngsters given awards were less likely to draw at all, and drew worse pictures, than those who were not given the awards. 
 Why did this happen? Children draw because drawing is fun and because it leads to a result: a picture. The rewards of drawing are intrinsic to the activity itself. The ''good player'' award gives children another reason to draw: to earn a reward. And it matters -- children want recognition. But the recognition undermines the fun, so that later, in the absence of a chance to earn an award, the children aren't interested in drawing.
 Similar results have been obtained with adults. When you pay them for doing things they like, they come to like these activities less and will no longer participate in them without a financial incentive. The intrinsic satisfaction of the activities gets ''crowded out'' by the extrinsic payoff.
 An especially striking example of this was reported in a study of Swiss citizens about a decade ago. Switzerland was holding a referendum about where to put nuclear waste dumps. Researchers went door-to-door in two Swiss cantons and asked people if they would accept a dump in their communities. Though people thought such dumps might be dangerous and might decrease property values, 50 percent of those who were asked said they would accept one. People felt responsibility as Swiss citizens. The dumps had to go somewhere, after all.
 But when people were asked if they would accept a nuclear waste dump if they were paid a substantial sum each year (equal to about six weeks' pay for the average worker), a remarkable thing happened. Now, with two reasons to say yes, only about 25 percent of respondents agreed. The offer of cash undermined the motive to be a good citizen. 
 It is as if, when asked the question, people asked themselves whether they should respond based on considerations of self-interest or considerations of public responsibility. Half of the people in the uncompensated condition of the study thought they should focus on their responsibilities. But the offer of money, in effect, told people that they should consider only their self-interest. And as it turned out, through the lens of self-interest, even six weeks' pay wasn't enough.
 Obviously, the intrinsic rewards of learning aren't working in New York's schools, at least not for a lot of children. It may be that the current state of achievement is low enough that desperate measures are called for, and it's worth trying anything. And we don't know whether in this case, motives will complement or compete. 
 But it is plausible that when students get paid to go to class and show up for tests, they will be even less interested in the work than they would be if no incentives were present. If that happens, the incentive system will make the learning problem worse in the long run, even if it improves achievement in the short run -- unless we're prepared to follow these children through life, giving them a pat on the head, or an M&M or a check every time they learn something new. 
 Perhaps worse, the plan will distract us from investigating a more pertinent set of questions: why don't children get intrinsic satisfaction from learning in school, and how can this failing of education be fixed? Virtually all kindergartners are eager to learn. But by fourth grade, many students need to be bribed. What makes our schools so dystopian that they produce this powerful transformation, almost overnight?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007



49 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; PATCHWORK CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2047 words

HEADLINE: Largely Alone, Pioneers Reclaim New Orleans

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, July 1 

 BODY:
The sound of hammers and saws. New green grass. A few freshly painted facades. Birdsong piping from a young tree. 
 This is the Gentilly neighborhood today, once a backbone of New Orleans and all but given up for dead less than a year ago after flooding from Hurricane Katrina turned it brown and gray and silent in 2005. 
 Gentilly, home to about 47,000 people before the storm and a thin fraction of that now, is not dead. Haltingly, in disconnected pockets, this eight-square-mile quadrant north of the historic districts that line the Mississippi River is limping back to life, thanks to the struggles of its most determined former residents. 
 But they have had to do so largely on their own, because help from government at any level has been minimal, in their accounts. In recent weeks, some residents have reported getting checks from the state's Road Home rebuilding program, but four-fifths of applicants have not. 
 Each block still contains only a handful of occupied houses. But a beachhead has been established here, a residential area critical to this city's survival and one that before the storm was dominated by black homeowners, professionals and multigenerational citizens of New Orleans. 
 A similar story is unfolding in two other once-flooded family-centered neighborhoods, neither of them flashy but both equally important to this city's future: Broadmoor, in central New Orleans, and Lakeview, in the northwestern corner, show signs of life here and there along the wounded streets. Neighbors, encouraged by the earliest post-Katrina pioneers, are moving back in. 
 All over the city, a giant slow-motion reconstruction project is taking place. It is unplanned, fragmentary and for the isolated individuals carrying it out, often overwhelming. Those with the fortitude to persevere -- and only the hardiest even try -- must battle the hopelessness brought on by a continuing sense of abandonment.
 The selection process has been Darwinian, with a combination of drive, tenacity, luck and savings seeing the neo-colonizers through. New Sheetrock glimpsed through a window, often as not, was bought with scraped-together savings.
 ''I'm just keeping my head down,'' said Albert Felton, 76, a retired mechanic who has exhausted his resources on his frame house on Brutus Street in Gentilly, near one of the levee breaks. He has done most of the Sheetrocking, painting and sanding alone, and the task remains unfinished. ''You don't see contractors out here,'' Mr. Felton said. ''We can't afford them.'' 
 Reluctantly, he admitted that discouragement sometimes got the better of him: ''Some mornings, I just sit on the steps for two hours, and I go right back to Baton Rouge.'' He is living in that city with his ailing wife and commuting over an hour each way to do the work on his house in Gentilly.
 Essential residential New Orleans neighborhoods like Gentilly and Broadmoor, with their bungalows, Arts-and-Crafts and ranch-style houses, grew with the city over the course of the 20th century; their loss seemed to presage an abrupt reversion to the narrow port town along the river of the 1800s. Now, taken together, the rebuilding activity in the once-flooded neighborhoods points to a more hopeful future than might have been thought possible a year ago. 
 Statistics -- fragmentary and loosely bandied about by civic boosters here -- nonetheless support the idea of tentative rebirth. In Gentilly, a door-to-door survey by a Dartmouth College professor this spring found 31 percent of homes either renovated or occupied, and an additional 57 percent gutted or under construction. That meant that only 12 percent of the houses in the neighborhood had been abandoned; a year ago, block after block appeared forsaken and silent. 
 A few thousand hammers and nails, of course, go only so far in a city that remains stricken nearly two years after the Katrina floodwaters. With so many houses still empty, the effect of the rebuilding effort in much of New Orleans resembles a giant piece of Swiss cheese, with big gaps in settlement connected by thin strands of inhabitants. Though neighborhoods are shells of what they were, they have not disappeared.
 At the same time, whole blocks in the Central Business District remain lifeless. The poorest districts, with tens of thousands of their inhabitants still stuck outside New Orleans, seem abandoned. The downtown complex of hospitals is moribund, as officials squabble over how to bring it back and as upstate legislators have plotted its relocation to another city. 
 The city's port, the historic mainstay of the New Orleans economy, is years behind those in neighboring states in improvements, and shippers are complaining. The murder rate, the nation's highest, is set to outpace last year's, and the school system has barely begun to recover. Nearly a third of residents polled in a University of New Orleans survey released last month said it was very or somewhat likely they would leave the city in the next two years; the figure has dropped only slightly since last fall. 
 Still, the citizen-driven rebound from conditions a year ago is palpable. The old neighborhoods that stayed dry along the river, including the French Quarter, are lively. Restaurants are reopening, music spills from bars and coffeehouses, and tourists are returning in large numbers. 
 A Tentative Rebirth
 The geographic boundaries of New Orleans have not shrunk. Residents have returned to virtually every part of the city in significant numbers, with the exception of the northern part of the Lower Ninth Ward. 
 Maps of mail deliveries, prepared by the Greater New Orleans Community Data Center, a local nonprofit group, show the strength of the revival. Last August, for instance, an insignificant number of households in the flooded areas were receiving mail. A map compiled this spring showed that postal customers per square mile in those neighborhoods had multiplied into the low thousands. If the overall population has also increased to about 62 percent of the pre-Katrina count -- from 49.5 percent last July, as postal deliveries have -- that means the city's current population may be up to 250,000 to 260,000.
 It is a long way from the prestorm population of 450,000, but the effect of the new residents is clear in block after block.
 ''All it would take would be a handful of people to maintain the neighborhood,'' said Richard Campanella, an urban geographer at Tulane University -- and this is what is happening.
 Today, even on streets devoid of residents, most houses appear gutted, their sodden Sheetrock and floors ripped out in anticipation of renovation, and many are being worked on. Trailers jut from driveways. In Broadmoor, homes are literally up in the air -- raised on concrete pilings to comply with federal flood insurance regulations -- and there is new landscaping everywhere. 
 In Gentilly, neighbors can occasionally be seen greeting one another across the nearly treeless streets where the magnolias were felled by Hurricane Katrina. These residents are visibly proud to have made a comeback. 
 The homeowners themselves -- those who have laboriously reclaimed their lives in Gentilly and elsewhere around the city -- have no doubt that their neighborhoods are alive. ''It's going to come back, going to come back spotty,'' said Robert Morrison, a 34-year-old film industry worker in the energetic final stages of fixing up his trim two-story cottage on Western Street. ''A spot here, and a spot there,'' Mr. Morrison said. 
 Mr. Felton said the change was recent. ''You couldn't see nobody, a year ago,'' he said. ''A year ago, you couldn't find people.'' 
 The optimism on the ground is measured, however, and for good reason. It is unclear how many people are actually living in Gentilly: a renovated home does not mean an inhabited one, and one possible conclusion from the Dartmouth survey, by Professor Quintus R. Jett, is that the area contains less than a third of its former inhabitants. 
 Gregory C. Rigamer, a local consultant who specializes in demographic estimates for government clients, puts the population in the Gentilly ZIP code at 37 percent of its prestorm total, with similar figures for Broadmoor and Lakeview. In the devastated ZIP codes of New Orleans East, Mr. Rigamer estimates the current population at just under one-third its level before Katrina. 
 At nights and on weekends, even blocks clearly on the rebound are silent, which suggests many of the rebuilt houses remain unoccupied. Crime, surprisingly, has stayed largely in the poor neighborhoods that did not flood as badly.
 ''It's still really quiet,'' said Sherry Snyder, a nurse who has rebuilt her house in Broadmoor. ''It's really kind of strange.'' 
 Government's Erratic Course
 The debate about whether New Orleans should consciously try to reduce its boundaries, however, seems to be over. When Mayor C. Ray Nagin repeated his resistance to shrinking the city's footprint in his annual State of the City speech in May, he drew approving roars and applause. 
 ''Don't talk to me about, 'We need to be smaller,' '' the mayor said. ''That's like somebody breaking into your house, and they mess up your whole house, and then you get a judgment that says, all we're going to do is fix up the living room and the bathroom because that's all you need. We want the whole city fixed.'' 
 But the course the mayor has set has been erratic, with a belated $1.1 billion rebuilding plan still unfinanced nearly three months after it was unveiled. Its author, Edward J. Blakely, a specialist brought in by Mayor Nagin to great fanfare late last year, has been bickering with a city agency over who is to oversee the plan's enactment -- assuming money is eventually found for it. 
 Meanwhile, the state has discovered it will not have enough money for its federally financed $7.5 billion homeowners' aid program, Road Home, despite earlier assurances that it would, and even though only about one in five applicants -- most of them entitled to it -- have actually received money.
 Mr. Felton, the retired mechanic, smiled slowly and bent his index figure and thumb into a zero when asked how much he had received. The story was similar up and down Gentilly and in Broadmoor, though checks have begun to trickle in over the last few weeks. 
 When government has not been an obstacle to the rebuilders, it has rarely been a help. 
 ''FEMA didn't help me,'' said Oscar Lewis, a 79-year-old retired merchant seaman who ran out of money trying to rebuild his brick two-story house in Gentilly. He waited month after month for a Road Home check. ''I had to work and scrape on my own,'' Mr. Lewis said. Finally, a few weeks ago, after months of work, he received a $76,000 check.
 On Their Own
 Harry Russell's freshly painted white-columned home on Marigny Street is a shiny beacon of normalcy. Mr. Russell, who came back before his neighbors, emphasized that he knew his way around government, having worked at City Hall as director of the mayor's office of health policy.
 ''For me, part of my sanity is my background,'' he said.
 Now a professor of social work at Southern University of New Orleans, Mr. Russell used a combination of savings, insurance money and a Small Business Administration loan to restore his house. When almost all the work was done, he received about $80,000 from Road Home a week ago. ''That kind of picks us up and puts us back where we were,'' he said.
 Closer to the spot where the levee breached, on a street still dotted with empty houses, Oliver Delacroix, 86 and sturdy, emphasized two pieces of good fortune: his eight children, who helped him bring his trim little cottage back to life, and his background as a bricklayer and mason, which allowed him to picture the reconstructed house, even when it was in ruins. 
 ''Oh, I knew it could be done,'' he said. ''I knew very well.'' 
 Graph: "One Mailbox At a Time" The increasing number of residential postal deliveries in New Orleans provides some indication of neighborhoods where people are returning. (Sources: Greater New Orleans Community Data Center; postal counts and carrier route boundaries provided by Sammamish Data Systems compiled from U.S.P.S.'s Delivery Statistics Product; FEMA)(pg. A14) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Oliver Delacroix, 86, rebuilt his home in the Gentilly neighborhood of New Orleans. A government trailer still sits in the yard. (Photograph by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
"A Block Is Home To Only a Few": The 1800 block of Brutus Street, in the Gentilly section of New Orleans, is, like many blocks, a microcosm of the fragmentary efforts to repopulate the city's workingclass neighborhoods.
4740 Annette Street, at the corner of Brutus Street. Before Hurricane Katrina the home was occupied by an elderly brother and sister
the brother has died, the sister left and sold the house. The new owner put on a roof and gutted the interior, and is thought to be waiting for federal money. The house is empty.
1928 Brutus Street The owner, Loma-Linda Boutney, a retired school teacher, is standing outside the FEMA trailer she occupies. She has gutted her house and recently received her grant from the Road Home program to begin reconstruction work in July.
1920 Brutus Street Evelyn Davis, the elderly former occupant, moved in with her daughter in Kenner, La., after Hurricane Katrina and does not plan to return. Her grandson has gutted the house and plans to move in after he gets a Road Home grant. The house is empty. (pg. A14)
1916 Brutus Street: The owner Barbara Adams, a retired schoolteacher shown picking up her mail, moved back last August, the first on the block to return after Hurricane Katrina. She used insurance proceeds and her retirement fund to rebuild, and now lives in the house with her 92-year-old mother.
1908 Brutus Street The owner, Stacy Bastian, a health professional who sells surgical supplies, returned to her house in May. She is waiting for FEMA to pick up the trailer in front of her home.
 1904 Brutus Street The owners, Kelan Barton, a pharmacist, and his wife, Dr. Lasandra Barton, moved to Slidell, La., after Hurricane Katrina. They have gutted the house and are trying to reconstruct it with the hope of renting it out or selling, but have encountered problems with contractors and receiving their government grants.(Text and photographs by FRED CONRAD/The New York Times)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RIVERS (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (75%); CITIES (75%); HURRICANES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007



50 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Clear Up the Congestion-Pricing Gridlock

BYLINE: By KEN LIVINGSTONE. 
Ken Livingstone is the mayor of London.

DATELINE: London 

 BODY:
 THE New York State Assembly ended its session on June 22 without reaching a consensus on Manhattan's congestion pricing proposal -- a delay that may cost New York City some $500 million in federal transportation money. Assembly members have voiced concerns about the economic impact of the program, the effect on traffic outside Manhattan and even the effectiveness of the idea itself.
 Four years ago, London was engaged in a very similar debate. We now have the luxury of hindsight. While the two cities' situations are not identical, they certainly have analogies and therefore, perhaps, the success of London's program can shed light on the current debate in New York. 
 At that time, London's business district was undergoing rapid growth, but it was at capacity in terms of traffic. Efforts to channel more cars into the city center simply led to ever lower traffic speeds, which in turn led to business losses and a decrease in quality of life. Simultaneously, carbon emissions were mounting because of the inefficiency of engine use.
 In 2003, London put in place a $:5 (about $9) a day congestion charge for all cars that entered the center city (the charge is now $:8). This led to an immediate drop of 70,000 cars a day in the affected zone. Traffic congestion fell by almost 20 percent. Emissions of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide were cut by more than 15 percent.
 The negative side effects predicted by opponents never materialized. The retail sector in the zone has seen increases in sales that have significantly exceeded the national average. London's theater district, which largely falls within the zone, has been enjoying record audiences. People are still flocking to London -- they're simply doing so in more efficient and less polluting ways.
 There has been a marked shift away from cars and into public transport and environmentally friendly modes of travel. There has been a 4 percent modal shift into use of public transport from private cars since 2000. Simultaneously, the number of bicycle journeys on London's major roads has risen by 83 percent, to almost half a million a day. Cycling has become something of a boom industry in London, with improvement in health for those involved and substantial benefit for the environment.
 This success had preconditions. In London, as will be the case in New York or any other city, an enhanced public transportation system was critical. To ensure readiness, we made significant upgrades to public transport. Our investment focused on enhancing London's bus system, rather than the subway, because we needed to increase capacity in the quickest, most cost-effective way.
 Specifications for a modern, more comfortable fleet were introduced, bus lanes were added, and more inspectors were put on to ensure buses ran at regular intervals. With London's buses a more attractive alternative, the number of bus trips a day has risen to six million, an increase of two million from 2000 -- with ridership growing most rapidly among the highest-paid social groups. In turn, this helped relieve pressure on the subway, ensuring it continued to run smoothly. Investment in public transport continues to this day, aided by the revenue from the congestion charge -- the equivalent of some $200 million annually. 
 Like New York's plan, London's congestion program initially met with some skepticism. Before the program began, polls showed that public opinion was divided almost exactly evenly. Since then, opinion has shifted to 2-to-1 in favor. 
 The results have led us to expand the initial program. In February the existing congestion charging zone was extended westward, doubling its size. Traffic in the extended zone fell by 13 percent. 
 The next stage of congestion charging in London will be a move to emissions-based charging. This will be aimed at deterring vehicles with the highest carbon emissions, like sports utility vehicles, from entering the city center. The new program will impose a payment of $:25 per day for such vehicles, as well as abolish the 90-percent exemption that their owners would receive if they were residents of the congestion charging zone. Incidentally, this charge for S.U.V.'s enjoys 3-to-1 popular support.
 Is London's success a guarantee that congestion charging will work in New York? Of course not. But it is an indicator that properly executed congestion pricing works, and works well. Singapore and Stockholm already operate such programs and other cities are examining them. Given the success of congestion charging in London, this is not surprising.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (Drawing by Michael Kirkham) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (88%); EMISSIONS (87%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (85%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (83%); CITY LIFE (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); THEATER (64%); CYCLING (61%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007



51 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1643 words

HEADLINE: No Oil Yet, but Tiny African Isle Finds Dealings Just as Slippery

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER and JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
A decade ago, geologists found signs that one of Africa's least-known countries, the tiny island nation of Sao Tome and Principe, might hold a king's ransom in oil.
 The first drop of oil has yet to be produced. But these days, little Sao Tome may have attracted ample supplies of something else, federal investigators suspect -- oil-related corruption.
 All of this might not seem unusual in Africa, where oil and corruption often go hand in hand. However, Sao Tome, a former Portuguese colony off the coast of Nigeria, was supposed to be different. In recent years, a steady stream of activists like the Columbia University economist Jeffrey D. Sachs have gone there to try to make sure that any energy boom would benefit its 150,000 people, rather than politicians and companies.
 ''Oil can be a blessing or a bane for a country,'' Mr. Sachs said. ''The theory was to help Sao Tome avoid the resource curse.'' 
 Things, however, have not quite worked out that way.
 The recent Justice Department indictment of William J. Jefferson, a Democratic congressman from Louisiana, contends, for example, that he solicited a bribe from a company seeking his help with an oil-related dispute involving Sao Tome. 
 Separately, federal authorities are investigating a small Houston-based company whose only assets are large holdings in Sao Tome to determine if it bribed the country's officials. On another front, a powerful Nigerian businessman who is the chairman of the Houston company, ERHC Energy, is under investigation in his country for possible insider oil dealings.
 All those involved -- Mr. Jefferson, ERHC, and that company's chairman, Emeka Offor -- deny that they did anything wrong. 
 Still, the experience of Sao Tome, a poor country that supports itself by selling cocoa and commemorative stamps featuring celebrities like Elvis Presley and Brigitte Bardot, shows how just the hint of oil can set off a scramble for riches. Along with Mr. Sachs, those who sought to help included George Soros, the billionaire turned philanthropist, and a high-powered Washington lawyer, Gregory B. Craig, who defended President Bill Clinton during the Monica Lewinsky scandal.
 ''In West Africa, the scent of oil alone may be enough'' to produce corruption, said Joseph C. Bell, another Washington lawyer who has traveled to Sao Tome to work on new oil laws.
 At the center of the Sao Tome story stands ERHC, a tiny company whose ranks have included a collection of characters and politically connected entrepreneurs like Mr. Offor. According to a 2005 report by the attorney general of Sao Tome, Mr. Offor is one of the largest donors to Nigeria's ruling political party and a close ally of Olusegun Obasanjo, who until recently was Nigeria's president.
 Sao Tome's unusual journey through the backwaters of the oil industry traces back to the mid-1990s, when ERHC arrived there. Large underwater oil deposits had been found nearby, off the coast of Nigeria, and ERHC believed that the tiny island might be the next big prize in west Africa.
 At that time, the Texas company was owned by some wildcatters and an enterprising Florida businesswoman named Noreen Wilson. Over the years, she has been involved with several penny stock companies including a short-lived enterprise called Pizza Group Inc.
 In 1997, Ms. Wilson signed a $5 million contract that gave ERHC, which was then known as the Environmental Remediation Holding Corporation, exploration rights in Sao Tome for 25 years. The contract was soon described by some outside experts as extremely lopsided.
 Soon afterward, Ms. Wilson resigned from ERHC during an investigation of the company by the Securities and Exchange Commission. But she appeared to retain an interest in the island's future; in 2001, for instance, she apparently reached out to Mr. Jefferson for help there, his indictment suggests. At that time, Sao Tome's new president was threatening to break a number of oil-related deals, including ERHC's.
 Ms. Wilson, who declined through her lawyer, Joseph A. Artabane, to be interviewed for this article, is not named in that indictment. But the filing describes how two unnamed people, a business executive and a lobbyist, went to see Mr. Jefferson about an oil-related dispute on Sao Tome. In return for a promise of help, Mr. Jefferson demanded that a family member receive benefit, a demand that was met, the indictment states.
 Mr. Artabane, who said that Ms. Wilson testified before the Jefferson grand jury, declined to confirm that she was the executive involved, but he did not dispute it either. The lobbyist involved was James P. Creaghan, according to his lawyer, E. Barton Conradi, who said his client has cooperated throughout with authorities. Mr. Creaghan worked with Ms. Wilson during that time. (Neither of them has been accused of wrongdoing.)
 Meanwhile, wheels were already spinning in Sao Tome when activists like Mr. Sachs, the economist, arrived. Their mission: To prevent it from following in footsteps of other African countries where corruption and waste typically follow oil. In Nigeria, the continent's largest producer, most people live on less than $2 a day while politicians have stolen or squandered billions.
 Initially, hopes were high. Soon after his election as president, Fradique de Menezes, a cocoa plantation owner, vowed that his country would be different. And he turned for help to outsiders like Mr. Craig, the Washington lawyer who represented President Clinton during his impeachment trial.
 But Mr. Craig, like others who followed him, found himself facing some powerful adversaries: Nigeria and Mr. Offor. In 2001, Nigeria had jumped in the picture when it signed an agreement with Sao Tome to share oil revenues from waters between the two nations. Mr. Offor, the ally of Nigeria's president, bought ERHC, which was then near bankruptcy, just a few days before that agreement was signed.
 Mr. Craig said that while he successfully renegotiated contracts with other oil companies in Sao Tome, Mr. Offor would not budge. ''The metaphor of David versus Goliath doesn't quite capture the relation between Sao Tome and Nigeria,'' he said. ''It's more like an ant.''
 In time, ERHC did agree to some changes in its contract, but the company retained extremely favorable terms, including the right to choose among the best oil blocks without paying the type of special one-time fee that governments typically demanded.
 Mr. de Menezes continued to seek assistance; in 2003, for instance, he reached out to Mr. Sachs.
 ''He called and said, 'Look we've found some oil and the sharks are swimming around us now, and I'd like some help to manage this properly,' '' Mr. Sachs recalled in a recent interview.
 As part of that effort, a Columbia University team and others helped draft a new oil law that contained safeguards to make sure Sao Tome spent its oil-related revenue properly. The team then traveled around the country, holding meetings on cocoa plantations and in churches, where they explained to residents how the new statute would protect their interests.
 ''Imagine what would happen if there was a big flood that hit us,'' stated a cartoon-like booklet that they handed out to residents. ''The oil law creates a dam.''
 By late 2005, however, a report by the attorney general of Sao Tome delivered a dose of reality. Among other things, it found that some companies that won blocs in the zone controlled jointly by Sao Tome and its neighbor were headed by Nigerian businessmen with political ties but no oil experience.
 The bidding process ''was subject to serious procedural deficiencies and political manipulation,'' the report concluded. In addition, the report found some large multinational oil companies were so suspicious of ERHC that they decided not to bid and added that ERHC ''may have made improper payments to government officials.'' 
 ERHC has disputed those findings and said in a statement that it received its rights legitimately and that it has also made numerous concessions to Sao Tome.
 ''We care about perceptions of ERHC Energy and we have been working to fully understand any concerns expressed about our activities,'' the company said.
 The attorney general's report may have precipitated last summer's raid on ERHC's Houston offices by the F.B.I. Among other things, F.B.I. agents took a file marked ''William Jefferson,'' a reference to the Louisiana congressman, a publicly filed subpoena shows.
 Dan Keeney, a spokesman for ERHC, said that the company was not aware of ''any facts to suggest that the U.S. government investigation of ERHC is in any way related to the ongoing investigation of Congressman Jefferson.''
 Whatever the case, ERHC has emerged thus far as the biggest winner in Sao Tome. Over the last year, it has sold off various rights to its holdings in Sao Tome, making tens of millions of dollars in the process.
 As for the reform effort by Mr. de Menezes, the country's president, he has been far less publicly vocal over the last year, outside consultants said. Mr. de Menezes, who met on several occasions with Mr. Jefferson, did not respond to repeated requests to be interviewed for this article.
 Despite earlier predictions of vast oil finds, it is unclear whether waters off Sao Tome will ever produce oil in commercial quantities. Last year, Chevron drilled the first exploration well there but failed to find much oil and, for the moment, has no immediate plans to drill again. ERHC said that it and a partner planned to drill next year. 
 The new oil and anticorruption statutes drafted by consultants like Mr. Bell, the Washington lawyer, have become law. But with all the obscurity and intrigue that has now descended onto Sao Tome, he, like others, question if it will make any difference.
 ''The game is not lost yet,'' Mr. Bell said. ''But it is a very uphill game.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: A bicyclist rides near a hotel under construction in Sao Tome, which is trying to ensure that its residents benefit from an anticipated oil boom. (Photograph by Armando Franca/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIBERY (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAWYERS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); POLITICS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); INDICTMENTS (66%); CELEBRITIES (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (61%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); WILLIAM J JEFFERSON (56%); GREG CRAIG (50%); GEORGE SOROS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO TOME, SAO TOME & PRINCIPE (95%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%) SAO TOME & PRINCIPE (99%); NIGERIA (94%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007



52 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Attack Of The Worms

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: RUTSHURU, Congo 

 BODY:
 Quiz time: So what do hundreds of millions of ordinary schoolchildren around the world possess that American kids almost never get?
 Answer: Worms.
 My win-a-trip journey to Africa, with a teacher and a student, has taken us to regions where most people are ''poly-parasitized.'' So while in Congo, I picked up doses of deworming medicine for myself and those travel partners who wanted it. (It's over-the-counter here. In the U.S. the simplest approach is to ask a vet for medication to deworm a St. Bernard.)
 AIDS is the disease in the global spotlight, capturing celebrity attention and billions of dollars in treatment programs -- and that's terrific, because it still kills almost three million people a year. But it's also time to recalibrate our efforts and devote more money to other ailments. 
 Some 40 million people have H.I.V. or AIDS, and 600 million have hookworms. Here in Congo, one study found that 82 percent of children have worms, and partly as a consequence 70 percent are anemic.
 It often costs hundreds of dollars a year to treat a person with AIDS, continuing for as long as the person lives. But it costs 3 cents per year per person for medicine to prevent elephantiasis, which is caused by worm-like creatures and is on my personal top-three list of diseases never to develop. 
 Elephantiasis causes one's legs to become grotesquely swollen, looking like an elephant's, hence its name. And a man's scrotum balloons so monstrously that in extreme cases the victim needs a wheelbarrow to support it as he walks.
 Not knowing the local word for the disease, we had some trouble at first; it was awkward inquiring about men with oversized genitalia. But once we conveyed our meaning, villagers quickly pointed us to many sufferers.
 Justine Nyinobajambere, 30, can barely walk, because both feet are leathery, pus-oozing stumps with flies feasting on them. She has already lost two of her four children, perhaps in part because her deformity makes it difficult to get food and water for them. All that suffering could have been prevented for 3 cents a year.
 In addition, the disease is spread by mosquito bites, so the bed nets and mild DDT spraying that protect against malaria also help prevent elephantiasis.
 I'm not criticizing the AIDS effort at all. Indeed, there should be an even bigger push for AIDS prevention measures such as condoms, education, male circumcision and drugs to block transmission in childbirth. All those steps are incredibly cost effective and should be expanded.
 But Western support for health in poor countries right now has to be broadened to include more attention to malaria and especially to what are called the neglected tropical diseases.
 The Global Network for Neglected Tropical Diseases estimates that more easily preventable and treatable ailments, including worms, elephantiasis and trachoma, kill 500,000 people annually. Indeed, ordinary worms kill 130,000 people a year, through anemia and intestinal obstruction.
 More generally, these diseases prevent children from achieving their intellectual or physical potential.
 ''Why are millions of kids getting enough to eat but are still malnourished?'' asks Josh Ruxin, who runs the program in Rwanda against neglected tropical diseases. ''Because they have worms.''
 These ailments together can be prevented or treated for just 50 cents per person per year.
 ''This is a chunk of global health that we can fix for almost nothing,'' says Michael Kempner, chairman of the board of the Sabin Institute, which hosts the global network. (The network is an outgrowth of Bill Clinton's work on international health.)
 The benefits are also economic. One study found that chronic hookworm infections in childhood reduced future earnings by 40 percent. And a landmark study in Kenya found that deworming reduced school absenteeism by one-quarter.
 Indeed, the cheapest way to increase school attendance in poor countries isn't to build more schools, but to deworm children. Yet almost no government aid goes to deworming.
 ''The average American spends $50 a year to deworm their dog,'' notes Peter Hotez, president of the Sabin Institute. ''In Africa, you can deworm a child for 50 cents.''
 This win-a-trip journey is an excuse to examine issues that are so basic that they usually get ignored. And so as we look at the international agenda, in addition to energy, war and nuclear proliferation, it's time to add something that affects more people more intimately than almost anything else in the world. 
 Yes, worms. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MALARIA (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%); TROPICAL DISEASES (89%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (89%); TROPICAL MEDICINE (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007



53 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Putin Arrives in Kennebunkport For 2-Day Visit With the Bushes

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: KENNEBUNKPORT, Me., July 1 

 BODY:
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia arrived at the Bush family compound here late Sunday for a two-day visit during which he and President Bush were planning to mix the relaxation of family and fishing with the anxiety of a growing list of divisive issues.
 Mr. Putin's jet landed in nearby Portsmouth, N.H., where former President George Bush joined him for the helicopter ride back here. Mr. Putin was then delivered by limousine to the Bush home, Walker's Point, which juts into the Atlantic Ocean in plain view of the main coastal road, to the clear concern of the Russian and American security teams. 
 Soon after he arrived, Mr. Putin was taken on a speedboat ride with the president and his father.
 On the schedule for later Sunday night was a family dinner of lobster and swordfish with the elder Mr. Bush and Barbara Bush playing host, as they often did here for world leaders when they were president and first lady.
 Dmitry Peskov, a spokesman for Mr. Putin, told reporters that a topic of discussion was the upcoming national elections in both countries.
 Also at the dinner were Laura Bush, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and the national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley.
 Officials from both sides have played down the likelihood that any major agreements will come out of the talks here. President Bush was expected to press Mr. Putin to sign on with a new agenda of sanctions against Iran for its pursuit of a uranium enrichment program.
 American officials were expecting Mr. Putin to show some reluctance because of his country's economic ties to Iran, though they have said they see new signs of Russian frustration with the Iranians. Still, officials of the Russian state-owned company helping to build Iran's first nuclear power station -- over the United States' objections -- met Sunday with Iranian officials in Tehran for talks about the project.
 Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin were also expected to discuss American plans for a missile defense system based in the Czech Republic and Poland, and a Russian counterproposal for a shared system in Azerbaijan. Another likely topic was statehood for Kosovo and Russia's support for Serbian opposition to it.
 But both sides have said the meetings are meant to bridge the distance between the nations when tensions between the United States and Russia are at the highest of Mr. Bush's presidency.
 Mr. Putin, who is stopping in the United States on his way to an Olympics meeting in Guatemala, proposed the meeting. Mr. Bush then suggested that the meetings be held at the family compound in Kennebunkport, where he rarely goes, preferring his ranch in Texas.
 In an interview with the local station WGME-TV this week, Mr. Bush's father said he would not be part of the broader discussion. But he said his home would provide the leaders a place to ''sit down, no necktie, sit in a beautiful house overlooking the sea, and talk frankly without a lot of straphangers.''
 He said it was likely that Presidents Bush and Putin would go fishing. ''Fishing is good for the soul,'' he said. ''Fishing is good for one person to get to know another.''
 Mr. Bush and his father went fishing themselves on Saturday and earlier on Sunday. 
 It was a slightly less serene scene on the streets of this town on Sunday, as hundreds of protesters marched toward the edge of the Bush compound, reaching only as far as police barricades scores of yards away.
 Carrying signs that read ''Impeach the Son of a Bush,'' and ''Stop the War,'' the marchers passed by a couple of dozen war supporters who held a modest counterprotest.
 ''We're here to show there's another side of the story,'' said Byron Grant, 62, a salesman, at the counterdemonstration. 
 There was some confusion in the demonstrators' ranks. A young woman sitting peaceably with the war supporters and holding one of their machine-made ''Support the Troops'' signs and pictures of two soldiers she called ''my boys,'' said, ''I just want them home.'' Realizing that she was in the wrong spot, she eventually moved on.
 Mr. Bush, for his part, was in a jovial mood, joking with reporters as he waited to greet Mr. Putin for dinner. He said that his fishing earlier in the day had been ''lousy,'' saying that the reporters with him here had scared them away.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (67%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (64%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (62%); HELICOPTERS (56%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (50%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (92%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (54%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); KOSOVO (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); IRAN (54%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007



54 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Israel Restores Financial Ties to Palestinian Authority

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, July 1 

 BODY:
The Israeli government agreed Sunday to restore full financial ties with the Palestinian Authority, now that President Mahmoud Abbas has decreed an emergency government with no members from Hamas. Israel will resume monthly transfers of taxes to the government as well as return, in installments, about $600 million withheld from the Palestinians since early 2006.
 On Sunday, Israel transferred about $120 million, the equivalent of a month's payroll for the entire Authority. 
 The decision ends an Israeli policy of fiscal isolation of the Palestinians that began with the installation of a Hamas-run government in March 2006, after Hamas won a legislative majority that January, beating the rival Fatah faction. The policy, together with a Western ban on aid to the Hamas government, was intended to undermine that government and bring it down, officials conceded at the time.
 Now, with Hamas having taken over the Gaza Strip, Mr. Abbas, of Fatah, has fired a Hamas-dominated ''unity'' government and installed an emergency cabinet led by Salam Fayyad, an independent economist close to Fatah. 
 Israel and the United States are trying to bolster Mr. Abbas, who favors a peacefully negotiated solution with Israel, and help him create a functional society in the West Bank. Israel views Mr. Abbas as weak and indecisive, but officials see him, in firing the old government, as finally standing up to Hamas.
 Mr. Fayyad, educated in Texas and a former economist with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, is prime minister, finance minister and foreign minister. As finance minister, he will be receiving direct transfers from the Israeli treasury -- and from the West. It remains to be seen whether the European Union, which has been paying part of the salaries of up to 80,000 Palestinians through direct transfers to their bank accounts, will now revert to putting its aid -- $900 million in 2006 -- solely through Mr. Fayyad.
 Mr. Fayyad has said he intends, as prime minister of the new government, to pay Palestinian civil servants in Gaza also, even though Hamas holds effective power there. Many Palestinian Authority employees in Gaza work in health and education and many favor Fatah, and it would be politically impossible for Mr. Fayyad to spend all Palestinian income, some of which comes from Gazans, solely in the West Bank. But how he will pay Palestinian security forces in Gaza without financing Hamas, at least indirectly, is unclear.
 Israeli officials said Sunday that they would have no objection if Mr. Fayyad paid Gazans. ''Whether he pays Gaza salaries is not our business,'' said Miri Eisin, a spokeswoman for Prime Minister Ehud Olmert. ''This is a Palestinian government that has already outlawed all armed groups outside the official security services, and we want to cooperate with them to give a clear-cut chance for Palestinians to be ruled in a different and effective way.''
 Some of the money will inevitably go to support Hamas members and groups, but Ms. Eisin said Israel had tried to ensure that it would not be passed to any ''nongovernmental groups linked to terrorism.'' Israel, the United States and the European Union classify Hamas as a terrorist organization and have legal bans on contact with it.
 Israel collects taxes and import duties for all goods coming into Israel and the Palestinian territories under a customs agreement. It is then supposed to pass the part belonging to the Palestinians -- roughly $45 million to $50 million a month after deductions for Israeli-supplied water and electricity -- to the Palestinian Authority.
 But since March 2006, Israel has provided only $100 million to Mr. Abbas for health and human services, leaving about $600 million untransferred. That money will now be paid in five or six installments to Mr. Abbas's government, though some $200 million of it is subject to legal appeals by private Israeli companies, like Dor Alon, which sells gasoline and fuel oil to the Palestinian Authority, to settle unpaid debts. 
 The Israelis will also, beginning with July, pay the taxes owed monthly, so there will be no further withholding. The Israelis are also holding regular meetings with senior officials of the new government and those close to Mr. Abbas on more extensive security cooperation, partly to ensure that the Hamas rout of Fatah will not be duplicated over time in the West Bank.
 But on Sunday, the Israelis were not focused on the Palestinians. They were consumed, instead, with the case of Moshe Katsav, the Israeli president, who resigned after reaching a plea bargain announced Thursday on accusations against him of rape and sexual misconduct. The attorney general, Menachem Mazuz, agreed to accept a deal to spare Mr. Katsav rape charges and any jail time, even though the alleged offenses, if proved in court, would bring a sentence of up to 20 years. 
 Mr. Mazuz is said by officials to have been concerned by the impact on the state of a rape trial and jail term for Mr. Katsav. He said that some of the events on which the accusations were based took place too long ago, given the statute of limitations, and that rape might be difficult to prove conclusively. But many Israelis are outraged, and some 20,000 people demonstrated in Tel Aviv on Saturday night against the plea bargain.
 The Israeli Supreme Court agreed Sunday to hear a petition that seeks to overturn the plea bargain. Mr. Katsav insists that he is innocent, but he will plead guilty under the deal to lesser counts of indecent acts, sexual harassment and obstruction of justice, and pay compensation to two of his four accusers, all women who worked for him.
 Shimon Peres has been elected the new president, a largely ceremonial post, and will take over in mid-July.
 Also on Sunday, an Israeli military court sentenced a Palestinian belonging to Islamic Jihad, Muhammad Amoudi, to 11 life sentences and 20 more years in jail for his role in a suicide bombing in a Tel Aviv market on April 26, 2006, in which 11 people were killed and dozens wounded. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A line formed yesterday at a cash machine in Ramallah, in the West Bank, as many Palestinians waited to check their bank balances for government payments after Israel began releasing frozen Palestinian Authority money. Israel plans to release about $600 million in installments. (Photograph by Muhammed Muheisen/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); AL FATAH (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (90%); EHUD OLMERT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007



55 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: As Senator Gained Political Heft, Lobbying Became Family Affair

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29 

 BODY:
On Christmas Eve 1994, Fred D. Thompson Jr. was out of a job. A 34-year-old self-described late bloomer, Mr. Thompson had graduated from law school just two years before and practiced law only for his father, Fred D. Thompson Sr., who was about to be sworn in as a senator from Tennessee. 
 ''I was out on the street, knocking on doors,'' recalled the younger Mr. Thompson, who is known as Tony. 
 But attending Brentwood Methodist Church in Nashville that night, Tony Thompson ran into the departing incumbent senator, Harlan Mathews, a Democrat. Mr. Mathews invited Tony to join him in a Nashville lobbying business, a job that would let him capitalize on his father's new position. 
 ''I don't just believe in the tooth fairy,'' Mr. Mathews said. ''A lot of people were seeking access -- not necessarily unfair access, but seeking access -- so Tony was employed in a number of areas where his father had made a reputation or his father's advice or whatever was going to be valuable one of these days.''
 Now the elder Mr. Thompson, who also worked as a lobbyist before and after his eight years in the Senate, is aiming for an even higher post, preparing a run for the Republican presidential nomination. In the folksy drawl that built him a lucrative sideline as a screen actor, Mr. Thompson is presenting himself as a reform-minded outsider taking on Washington, just as he did when he campaigned for the Senate as ''Ol' Fred'' the ''real live country lawyer,'' and cruised Tennessee in a rented red pickup truck. 
 But the lobbying work that Tony Thompson and another son, Daniel, did after their father won his Senate seat suggests how far the family has traveled from Fred Thompson's early career. Not only has he parlayed his own political background into a lobbying business -- a fact his opponents have seized on to challenge his outsider image -- but his sons have also made lobbying a family affair.
 Mr. Thompson and his advisers declined to comment. Although clients valued Tony Thompson's service because of the perception that he had access to his father, Mr. Mathews said, Senator Thompson was sensitive to the potential appearance of favoritism to his sons' clients and sought to keep a distance. Rather than relying on his father, Tony Thompson relied mainly on political contacts in Tennessee he had made campaigning for his father, Mr. Mathews said.
 Tony Thompson said he lobbied mainly in Nashville and registered for only one Washington client, Lockheed Martin. He said he never lobbied the Senate or discussed clients with his father. 
 Daniel Thompson was registered as a lobbyist only at the state level, where he worked as executive director of a statewide business group, the Tennessee Business Roundtable. He was later also a paid consultant to his father's political action committee. Daniel, too, declined to comment.
 Paul C. Light, a professor of government at New York University who worked closely with Senator Thompson on campaign finance and ethics proposals, said that lobbying by a family member was ''an ugly practice no matter who the senator is, because it creates the appearance that his family is exploiting his stature and position.'' 
 Mr. Thompson was hardly the only lawmaker with relatives in similar positions. As money pouring into lobbying firms has soared in recent years, many lawmakers have watched family members get into the business. But ethics experts say the case is all the more striking when the relatives, like Tony and Daniel Thompson, have scant qualifications other than their family ties. And the elder Mr. Thompson was one of the Senate's most outspoken advocates of tighter ethics and campaign finance rules.
 Some groups whose interests and causes the elder Mr. Thompson supported in the Senate also hired his sons. In 1998, for example, Lockheed Martin hired Tony Thompson and his partner, Mr. Mathews, to lobby the federal government to maintain contracts to manage federal nuclear facilities in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
 Lockheed had been a major source of money for Mr. Thompson's Senate campaigns; around the same time he had hired a former Lockheed lobbyist, Powell A. Moore, as his chief of staff. In November that year, Mr. Thompson and Tennessee's other senator, Bill Frist, invited Bill Richardson, then the energy secretary, for a tour of the facility to make the case for retaining Lockheed.
 The next month, Mr. Richardson deferred a decision about the fate of the contracts for 15 months. ''Secretary Richardson is to be commended for making a thoughtful decision,'' Mr. Thompson said at the time. 
 Lockheed lost the Oak Ridge contracts in 2000, two years before Mr. Thompson left the Senate. The loss of the contracts, Tony Thompson argued, showed that there was ''obviously no connection'' to his father.
 There were some causes that the senator supported before his son lobbied for them. As an actor, for example, Senator Thompson was a natural champion for the Motion Picture Association of America on subjects like copyright protection and obscenity regulation. As a former trial lawyer, he was sometimes one of the few Republicans to oppose limits on personal injury suits and lawyers fees. And as a former lobbyist for certain cable television concerns, it may have been natural that Mr. Thompson supported the cable television industry's goals in a regulatory overhaul of the telecommunications industry.
 The same groups also hired Tony Thompson to lobby in the Tennessee Capitol. One of Tony Thompson's first state-level lobbying clients was the Motion Picture Association of America. Other early clients included Time Warner cable and its allied Interactive Services Association. In 2006, after the elder Mr. Thompson had left the Senate, the Tennessee Trial Lawyers Association hired Tony Thompson.
 Connections to a senator can also be a significant calling card for a lobbyist in the halls of a state capitol. Senators are leaders of their state political parties with broad power over federal appointments, spending and other forms of patronage. 
 Tony Thompson said he never traded on his father's name. ''People at the State Legislature from time to time would ask me how my dad is doing,'' he said. ''You know, they're politicians.'' 
 Mr. Thompson, who had his first son by the time he finished high school and his second by the time he finished Vanderbilt Law School, started out working with an in-law in his hometown, Lawrenceburg. His big break came when Senator Howard H. Baker Jr., whose 1972 re-election campaign Mr. Thompson had worked for, tapped him as the Republican counsel to the Senate Watergate committee, and he quickly parlayed the celebrity he gained through the televised hearings into a small Washington lobbying business. 
 His first and biggest lobbying client was a division of Westinghouse, which hired him to seek federal money for an experimental nuclear reactor on the Clinch River in Tennessee. The project cost about $1.7 billion in taxpayers' money before it was killed in 1983, surviving primarily because of the support of Mr. Thompson's mentor, Mr. Baker.
 Other clients included a Tennessee savings-and-loan group advocating some of the looser regulations that contributed to the savings and loan crisis; Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the leftist Haitian leader; Perrier; Toyota; a Teamsters pension fund; and a Baltimore-based group seeking federal business grants for urban neighborhoods. After leaving the Senate, Mr. Thompson, busy with his acting career, lobbied for just one client: Equitas, an insurance company concerned about asbestos liabilities.
 Before his father's election, Tony Thompson had spent most of his 20s as a landscaper before finally earning a law degree from Memphis State University.
 But he soon had a portfolio of clients including Coors Brewing, the Gallo wine company, a wine industry group, several waste services companies and a few health care companies, as well as the City of Knoxville, according to state records. Several continued to employ Mr. Thompson even after his father left the Senate. 
 Daniel Thompson had worked as a Xerox salesman before his father's election. Afterward, Daniel landed an economic development job for the state, and three years later became executive director of the Tennessee Business Roundtable. His duties included recruiting new members and lobbying at the Statehouse for increasing education and business development spending and lowering taxes. 
 In 2002, Daniel quit to work full time as finance director of his father's re-election campaign. When Senator Thompson decided not to seek re-election, Daniel, too, was out of a job. So his father stepped in to help out. Giving a speech to a charitable group associated with a Kentucky military base, Senator Thompson suggested to the group's fund-raising consultant, Douglas M. Lawson, that he consider hiring his son, Mr. Lawson recalled. Daniel now runs an office of Mr. Lawson's charitable fund-raising firm in Nashville, his father's home base.
 The elder Mr. Thompson helped Daniel through his political action committee as well. In the last two elections, the committee paid Daniel Thompson more than $170,000 in consulting fees, compared with less than $70,000 it paid toward supporting Republican political campaigns.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Fred D. Thompson at a 2001 press conference in Nashville. Standing from left are his son Daniel, daughter-in-law Mara and son Tony. (Photograph by Mark Humphrey/Associated Press)(pg. A13 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (75%); CHRISTMAS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (50%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: FRED THOMPSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007



56 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: Fuel Economy Standard

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The Senate recently approved landmark legislation to increase fuel economy by 10 miles per gallon over 10 years to 35 miles per gallon. 
 But in describing the bill (''Vote on Mileage Reveals New Configuration in the Senate,'' news article, June 23), you suggest that this legislation would benefit one automaker, Nissan, at the expense of all the others. 
 In fact, the legislation levels the playing field. 
 Here's how: First, the bill establishes a flexible fleetwide average of 35 miles per gallon (as opposed to the current system, where automakers must meet one fixed standard for cars and another for light trucks and S.U.V.'s).
 Second, the bill requires the administration to establish standards based on physical attributes of vehicles, like size or engine power. So, small cars would be compared against small cars, light trucks against light trucks, and S.U.V.'s against S.U.V.'s.
 Bottom line: each automaker won't be required to achieve 35 miles per gallon for every vehicle it produces. Instead, fuel economy for all cars, trucks and S.U.V.'s must average 35 miles per gallon by 2020.
 Therefore, Nissan, whose fleet currently averages only about 28 miles per gallon, would not be advantaged more than any other company. 
 (Senator) Dianne Feinstein
 (Senator) Olympia Snowe
 Washington, June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); APPROVALS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

PERSON: OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007



57 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITYWIDE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: For a Master Class on Global Worship, It's Destination Queens

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
Albert Walters lives in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, where he is an Anglican priest and seminary professor. He wanted to learn more about the world's religions.
 Naturally, he went to Flushing.
 This dizzyingly diverse corner of Queens is an urban showcase for the varieties of religious experience, where traditions brought over by Asian immigrants coexist alongside those of Catholics, Jews and mainline Protestants. For one week recently, it was also a laboratory for seminary professors who walked around to learn how congregations and cities affect one another. They visited a mosque whose elementary school boasted of excellent test scores, and a Sikh temple where they were treated as honored guests to a spicy home-cooked meal. They met with social workers, police officers and librarians, too, not to mention a troupe of Christian breakdancers.
 Others visited Harlem and the Lower East Side. In Flushing they saw how many congregations help their members find a way to make sense of life in their adopted city. They offer a range of social services or something as basic as a free lunch and fellowship. Yet Mr. Walters was equally struck by how many of them were barely aware of what their neighbors were doing. 
 ''People are living in the same community, but within little sections of their own,'' he said. ''I find it very strange. I think it further solidifies their insecurities. Are you integrated into American society? Are you really part of the whole process?''
 These are the kinds of questions Lowell Livezey has been pondering for decades. He is a professor at New York Theological Seminary, where he studies congregations with the eye of a social scientist. Urban ministry, he said, is no longer a simple matter of helping unskilled immigrants fit into an industrial economy, but a more complicated task: helping people from different cultures and classes negotiate an individualistic society and information-driven economy. 
 He put together the recent 10-day New York City conference Mr. Walters attended with the hope that it would help the participants better understand other traditions in their own communities. 
 For Mr. Livezey, congregations have to be understood in context even if secular critics would say why bother. ''They say that the more modern a city becomes, the more secular it becomes, and that results in more individualism. Well, maybe. But let's understand why or if that's true.''
 The conference is part of a wider collaboration the seminary has with the Interfaith Center of New York, which has been working with hundreds of local clergy for the last 10 years, bringing them together and connecting them with social service providers. It has become even more crucial as the city's religious landscape increasingly reflects the world's.
 ''If you want to work in the South Bronx or Chinatown, religion is a powerful social force that you have to understand,'' said Matt Weiner, the center's director of program development. ''As we educated grass-roots religious leaders about social issues, we realized that the secular activists we brought in didn't realize the importance of these leaders. That's when we thought religious communities could become a resource to educate different groups.''
 Mr. Walters and his companions slowly walked up Union Street, which was tightly packed with stores and offices, almost all of which had signs in Korean. On this half-block stretch by Flushing High School, there were eight churches. 
 They trooped up a narrow stairway and were ushered into the cramped offices of the Council of Korean Churches of Greater New York, whose membership consists of more than 420 congregations, 200 of which are in Queens. Despite those numbers, two officials from the group acknowledged that continued growth was not guaranteed, because immigration from Korea had declined. 
 The large churches will survive, they said, but some of the smaller churches have had to merge. Others have reached out to their Chinese, Latino and African-American neighbors to build their congregations. 
 That process, however, has not been without problems. Last summer, Korean church leaders were aghast when a group of Latino preachers welcomed a visiting Korean minister and faith healer whose teachings have been condemned as heresy. 
 ''We are concerned about humanism and heresies among people in Flushing,'' said the Rev. Myong C. Cho, the council's general secretary. ''Koreans might know who is teaching heresy. But other ethnic groups can find it hard to tell if a pastor or minister is part of the New Age movement or is being a heretic.''
 Flushing itself has had a central role in the city's history of religious tolerance. It was here that settlers stood up against Peter Stuyvesant's prohibition against Quakers 350 years ago. The house of John Bowne, an early settler who was jailed for allowing Quakers to meet there, still stands, and the street named after him lives up to his ideals. As Mr. Walters and his colleagues walked down Bowne Street, they passed a synagogue and a Chinese Christian church and went into an elaborately decorated Hindu temple. 
 Inside, a bare-chested priest strung carnations into garlands while people went from niche to niche and prayed before statues of Hindu gods, some of which had small signs that warned ''Please Do Not Touch the Deity.'' The hollow clang of a bell echoed through the temple every now and then.
 Alamelu Iyengar, a volunteer at the temple, told the visitors about its growth over the last 30 years, including how it stands on what used to be the site of a Russian Orthodox church. The temple is now home to various social service programs, as well as religious festivals that attract worshipers from all over the region. Someone asked how they were able to keep the children interested.
 ''Go to temple?'' she asked. ''That's the last thing they want to do! The parents have a hard time maintaining Hinduism among the children. This country is like Disneyland for the rest of the world. Nobody wants to work hard or take it slow.''
 Being in New York, she later said, was both good and bad. There is a certain stress here that makes people conscious of being Hindu in a way they never thought of before. At the same time, there is freedom to be different. 
 ''And even if someone bothers you, New York City is so big and magnificent you can safely ignore it,'' Dr. Iyengar said with a chuckle. ''What do you care if someone looks at you? So what? It's a good thing they're looking at me. At my age?''
 Mr. Walters perked up the moment he heard a priest chanting in Tamil, his native tongue. Soon, he was in animated conversation with a woman who had been writing in Tamil. He later said he found the experience soothing, since his forbears were Hindus, and the sounds and smells of the temples resonated deep inside him. 
 As the group made its way through the temple, two participants who taught at an evangelical seminary in Korea seemed puzzled. One of them later admitted that he felt uneasy among the Hindu rituals and statues.
 ''They have very different religious concepts,'' said Sung-Hun Lee, a professor at Sungkyul University. ''Sometimes religion limits you rather than sets you free.''
 His colleague, Nagheoung Lim, had long left the temple to wait outside. As the group departed, Mr. Walters looked about. He was in a good mood.
 ''Where's Lim?'' Mr. Walters asked.
 ''He's across the street,'' someone replied. ''Under a tree.''
 ''Lim!'' Mr. Walters shouted. ''You got a revelation?''

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Hindu Temple Society of North America in Flushing, Queens, Alamelu Iyengar, second from left, leads an international group of seminary professors seeking to learn how congregations and cities affect one another.
The visitors were welcomed with a vegetarian meal at the Sikh Center. Other professors visited Harlem and the Lower East Side in Manhattan. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 The Rev. Nagheoung Lim, right, visiting from South Korea, spoke with a youth studying the Koran at the Muslim Center of New York. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (73%); NEW ECONOMY (67%); DANCERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) MALAYSIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007



58 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: The I.O.C. Should Pick the Welcoming Backyard

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Always listen to your neighborhood Nimby. That's my policy, and it's a good one. If enough people are chanting ''Not in my backyard!'' it probably means they really don't want it, whether it's a power line or a freeway or some cockamamie hybrid sports complex, no names mentioned.
 That's why the members of the International Olympic Committee should listen to the Nimby factor in Salzburg, Austria, and choose the South Korean town of Pyeongchang for the 2014 Winter Games, when the vote is taken tomorrow afternoon in Guatemala. 
 Pyeongchang is a better choice than Salzburg or Sochi, Russia, not only because it seems to have the best plan, but also because South Korea has proved itself twice in the last generation to be a highly skillful and enthusiastic host of major sports events.
 Another major reason for choosing Pyeongchang is a poll released in early June by the evaluation committee of the I.O.C. Twenty-seven percent of residents in Salzburg were strongly opposed to holding the Games while another 18 percent were somewhat opposed, compared with the 7 percent strongly opposed and 7 percent somewhat opposed in Sochi and 3 and 2 in Pyeongchang. 
 That's a lot of Nimby types in Salzburg. And they may very well be right. Salzburg has been staging winter sports since that Mozart boy was writing concertos, and the locals don't need Olympic-mandated security patrols and television construction crews clogging up their town, getting in the way of real life. 
 The South Koreans not only have space and money to build a modern Olympic site, but they are also a people with something to prove. 
 ''Sports unite people,'' said Han Seung-soo, the former president of the United Nations general assembly and ambassador to the United States who is now the chairman of the Pyeongchang bid committee.
 ''I think the international community is aware of the Korean people and our rapid economic growth,'' said Han, an economist by training, in a telephone interview yesterday.
 Then there is the matter of a geopolitical leap of faith -- voting for a site only an hour and a half from what President Clinton once called ''the scariest place on earth,'' the demilitarized zone separating North and South Korea.
 Putting the Games near the border would, in effect, be making a statement that two halves of the same psyche won't be hurling missiles at each other. At the moment, the hermit nation of North Korea is toning down its nuclear bluster, and has approved the Winter Games near its borders, even agreeing to a joint Olympic team, eventually. The North Koreans want a team based on a straight 50-50 split while the South Koreans want a team based on results, which indicates a decade-long debate over whether to use a square table or a round table. 
 More importantly, the I.O.C. constantly preaches reconciliation through sport, and has already seen South Korea come through during the 1988 Summer Games.
 ''North Korea boycotted the Seoul Olympics,'' Han recalled yesterday, adding that ''tension was very high,'' a reference to the civil unrest in South Korea before the Games. Yet the Games were held in a flurry of color and good will and competence, as the world got to know a major Asian nation.
 ''Now tension has receded,'' said Han, who was recently appointed a special envoy on climate change by his former assistant, the Secretary General of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon.
 Han, 70, grew up in Gangwon province, which includes Pyeongchang. He recalled years of poverty in the partitioned nation, but added, ''the last 40, 50 years, we have had good economic growth.'' 
 ''Now we have the infrastructure to build a modern Olympic center,'' he said.
 The concept of reconciliation was criticized by Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer of Austria Sunday after his arrival in Guatemala.
 ''Is the vote for the sake of Olympic ideals or is it for geopolitics?'' Gusenbauer was quoted as saying by The Associated Press. ''We do not need to have the Olympic Games for a special purpose for us. We think we can offer something special -- more emotion and more passion. This is what the Olympics so desperately needs.'' 
 More emotion? More passion? This man clearly has never met a Korean. He could not have been in South Korea in 2002, when that nation shared the World Cup with Japan, and everybody wore red T-shirts to contribute to the national team's improbable surge to the semifinals. 
 But spirit is not everything. Pyeongchang narrowly lost to Vancouver, British Columbia, for the 2010 Games in a vote four years ago, finishing slightly ahead of Salzburg. Both of their current plans have been termed ''excellent'' in the recent I.O.C. evaluation, although the criticisms of Salzburg seemed more pointed, while Sochi was chillingly described as merely ''very good.'' 
 Austria had a doping scandal during the 2006 Winter Games in Turin, Italy, with 6 athletes and 14 team officials ultimately suspended. South Korea has also had a scandal in recent years, with Kim Un-yong, a former power in the Olympic movement, sentenced to 30 months in jail for embezzlement. 
 The three nations are throwing in the big guns, so to speak. President Roh Moo-hyun of South Korea arrived in Guatemala yesterday while President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia was expected after stopping off to visit President Bush in Maine.
 The Sochi committee installed its own skating rink in Guatemala City, with Slava Fetisov, the great hockey defenseman and an Olympic official, expected to skate, as was the former Olympic figure skating champion Evgeni Plushenko. 
 Chancellor Gusenbauer tried to prop up Austria by stressing Salzburg's proximity to the traditional winter-sports audience of Europe and North America, but Han noted this is a new century, saying, ''There are a billion people living in Asia near the Games.''
 Being an Olympic host is an expensive honor. Sometimes the Summer Games are used to upgrade a city, the way Beijing is doing, and Athens, Atlanta and Barcelona did in the recent past, but Winter Games are trickier, based on cold-weather sports in a world of rising temperatures. A sensible swath of Salzburg residents may very well believe they don't need this intrusion, but Koreans, rightly or wrongly, want to throw a costly party in 2014. By their diligence and their spirit, they have earned it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: HAN SEUNG-SOO (53%); BILL CLINTON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (90%); EARTH (68%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); AUSTRIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007



59 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Happy Returns for Travel Agents

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN

 BODY:
Gene Luntz, an artist's representative in Manhattan who flies six to eight times a year for work, is one of the converts. 
 After years of booking his travel online, through Web sites like Orbitz, Travelocity, Expedia and Priceline.com, he has gone back to using a travel agent. 
 Yes, they still exist, those people who until the mid-1990s booked about 75 percent of airline tickets and had as much power as God but then seemed at risk of extinction. In fact, many travel agents -- or travel specialists, as they are now known -- say they have seen an increase in business in the last year or so.
 One big reason, they say, is that travelers say they do not have the time or energy to scour the Internet for the best deals. And they crave a personal touch that a disembodied voice in a call center cannot provide. Many of the returning customers offer variations of the tale Mr. Luntz, 60, told. 
 About two years ago, he said, he bought plane tickets on Priceline.com. The day before he was to leave, he caught a vicious cold. He spent hours on the phone, he said, trying to find someone to help him change his flight. But he was unsuccessful and ended up throwing the tickets away. ''Going to the Internet is an absolute nightmare,'' Mr. Luntz said. 
 That is when he called his former travel agent at the Tzell Travel Group in Manhattan. ''She's available for phone calls. She returns calls,'' he said. ''They take really good care of me, despite the fact that I'm not General Motors. The most amazing thing is that for the price of a Starbucks coffee for my girlfriend and me, I have someone on the other end that can help me, as opposed to a Web site that can give me no response.'' 
 Allen Kay, a spokesman for the Travel Industry Association, a trade group based in Washington, said travel agencies had realigned in the face of competition from online booking. ''Travel agencies have gone back to their roots and focused on expertise,'' he said.
 This is not to say that online travel booking is on the decline. Henry H. Harteveldt, a travel analyst at Forrester Research, said about 77 million of the nearly 141 million American adults who use the Internet and take at least one trip a year will buy their tickets online this year, up from 62.4 million in 2005. He estimated that 64 million people buy all their travel offline. 
 But, he said, ''as the airline centers have scaled back their call centers and it's harder to get help from the travel providers themselves, finding a travel agent who is knowledgeable and takes the burden off the customer is more valuable than ever.'' He said bricks-and-mortar travel agents continue to outsell online travel agents for most airlines and hotels. 
 At Atlas Travel International, a travel management company with headquarters in Milford, Mass., that works with business and leisure travelers, sales revenue has grown 60 percent from 2005 to 2006, said Elaine Osgood, the chief executive. The Travel Store, in Cincinnati, has had a 50 percent increase in business over the last year; the company recently hired two more employees to help answer the extra calls, many from former customers, said Deborah Morgan, a travel consultant at the shop. 
 ''When you say to them, 'You were a customer a while back. What happened?' They say, 'I went on the Internet and I'd find out the hotels are not what they say they are,' '' Ms. Morgan said. ''Or, 'It takes too much time.' ''
 Barry Liben, the chief executive of Tzell Travel, a corporate and leisure travel agency with 21 branches across the country, said his company expected to sell about $700 million in airline tickets this year, compared with $300 million five years ago. 
 ''Did some of our clients leave and go to the Net?'' he asked. ''Yes. But a great percentage have come back because it's 9 o'clock at night, you've just missed your flight, you call Travelocity and see what they'll do for you, and there's no one there. If you show up at the Ritz-Carlton and there's a problem in your room -- go call Priceline. No one there. People want service, someone responsible who will answer their problems in a crisis. That's what top corporate travel companies do.''
 Online agencies said they had taken note and were trying to improve customer service. In May 2005, for example, Travelocity officials said, they introduced Customer Championship, which includes a team that contacts travelers before their trip should unforeseen problems arise, like potentially confusing airport terminal changes.
 In 2004, Priceline began offering published flight prices in addition to its ''name your price'' fares. This year, it began working with Zagat to offer hotel reviews, photos, maps and video tours. ''The area of expansion is in information,'' said Brian Ek, a company spokesman in Norwalk, Conn.
 Although many travel agents closed up shop or consolidated after Sept. 11, others found innovative ways to stay afloat. For many of them, that involved persuading corporate clients to use their services rather than the Internet.
 Kevin Martin, the owner of Martin Travel Services in Lauderhill, Fla., which caters to business travelers, said his agency lost about half its bookings after Sept. 11. To save the business, which has been in his family for 25 years, he moved into a smaller office, scaled back to four days a week and began promoting his company to corporate executives. ''I showed them that their employees should be outsourcing their travel arrangements instead of making an online booking that could take an hour,'' he said.
 It worked. Today, he said, sales are about $1 million more than they were last year, and he expects them to continue climbing.
 Christopher Carmicle, the president of the national accounts and direct imports division at Brown Jordan International in Louisville, Ky., said he did not go anywhere without calling Mr. Martin. He said he learned his lesson in June 2000, when he was bumped from a flight from San Francisco using a ticket he had bought on the Web. ''I needed to get back for a birthday party, but I got stuck for a day and a half and I missed it,'' Mr. Carmicle, 33, said. 
 Of course, nothing in life is free. Travel agents, who lost their airline commissions in the mid-1990s when airlines first capped them and then cut them, generally charge from $10 to $75, depending on the transaction. Some also charge a consultation fee, which can then be used toward the purchase of a ticket or package.
 But they also offer perks. Agents have given customers cellphones, itineraries, maps and a 24-hour ear in times of crisis.
 ''I couldn't do my international travel online,'' said Mr. Carmicle, who often flies to China. ''I'd be crazy to attempt to.''
 Many clients said they wanted help booking more complicated, more expensive trips, especially ones involving international travel. 
 ''When the consumer is making a more expensive choice, more complex and high risk, they're not just so inclined to push a button,'' said Jack Mannix, president and chief executive of the Ensemble Travel Group, an organization of 1,000 travel agencies in the United States and Canada. 
 ''There's a huge amount of data on the Internet,'' Mr. Mannix said, ''but there's a knowledge base between someone's ears that just can't be replicated, regardless of how much research you do.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kevin Martin, a travel service owner, promotes his firm to corporate executives. (Photograph by Barbara Fernandez for The New York Times)
 Gene Luntz, who flies about six times a year, consulting his travel agent, Michelle Claussi. (Photograph by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AGENTS (94%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); CALL CENTERS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (68%); COFFEE MARKETS (63%)

COMPANY: ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (58%); PRICELINE.COM INC (58%); TRAVEL LEADERS GROUP LLC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

TICKER: OWW (NYSE) (58%); PCLN (NASDAQ) (58%); GM (NYSE) (53%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (58%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



60 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROCKIES 6, METS 2; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Glavine Loses His Touch As Mets Fall to Rockies

BYLINE: By BEN SHPIGEL

DATELINE: DENVER, July 2 

 BODY:
Over the years, Coors Field has eaten up and spit out its share of accomplished pitchers, but Tom Glavine has remained mostly immune from damage. The key to his success is no secret. Rarely does he give up home runs, and he has parlayed that skill into being the only pitcher to throw two shutouts here.
 Those came a long time ago, however, when he pitched for Atlanta, and the Mets' listless 6-2 loss to the Rockies encapsulated an overall feeling that not much that happened Monday night was quite what it seemed. 
 Glavine got blitzed. The Mets could not hit, here of all places. And the Rockies' pitching staff, woeful during a just-completed road swing, held the Mets scoreless until the eighth inning. 
 ''Sometimes the law of averages catches up with you, and tonight was one of those nights,'' Glavine said. 
 The Rockies sent 11 hitters to the plate against Glavine in the third inning, scoring all six runs, and when it ended, Glavine had thrown 40 of his 112 pitches. Matt Holliday, Colorado's All-Star outfielder, delivered the big hit, a towering three-run homer, and pitcher Jason Hirsh, with one career hit, drove in two more with a two-out single. 
 Hirsh, a rookie who entered the game with one victory in his previous 12 starts, located his sinker down in the strike zone with aplomb. In throwing an economical 62 pitches through six innings, Hirsh allowed three hits and did not permit a runner to advance past second base. He was forced to leave after spraining his ankle while running the bases.
 ''He's one of those guys who pretty much throws strikes,'' Jose Valentin said. ''You can't afford to lay off pitches or else you get in a hole right away.''
 The temperature was 95 degrees at first pitch, the second highest for a night game in Coors Field history, and the Mets looked lethargic from the start. The first seven hitters went down in order against Hirsh until Carlos Gomez, trying to inject some energy, bunted for a hit. He made it as far as second, and after that only David Wright (fourth-inning double) and Shawn Green (fifth-inning single) had hits against Hirsh.
 It was only after Hirsh departed that the Mets restored some respectability, scoring two runs off the Mets castoff Jorge Julio in the eighth inning to avoid being shut out by a team that, during its 1-9 trip, allowed 78 runs. The first three hitters in the Mets' lineup -- Jose Reyes, Paul Lo Duca and Carlos Beltran -- went a combined 1 for 12. The only hit, by Reyes, came in the eighth.
 ''I don't think you ever anticipate coming into this ballpark and getting shut down,'' Glavine said.
 Coming off a rain-shortened one-hitter against St. Louis, Glavine had allowed one earned run in his previous 14 innings while picking up career victories Nos. 296 and 297. He was pleased with how he adjusted from dreadful starts against Detroit and the Yankees, when he was reluctant to pitch inside against right-handed hitters. In six innings Monday, Glavine allowed nine hits -- eight singles. He had a little difficulty spotting his best pitch, the changeup, and paid for it in the third. 
 With runners on the corners and one out, Holliday came up and fell behind, 0-2. Glavine threw his next three pitches around the strike zone but not in it, and with a full count, he tried throwing a changeup over the inside corner. It caught too much of the plate, and Holliday hit it deep into the left-field bleachers. Gomez hardly moved as the ball soared over his head, and the Rockies led, 3-0. 
 ''I'm still not certain it was that bad of a pitch,'' Glavine said.
 Glavine retired the cleanup hitter, Todd Helton, for the second out, but the next four batters reached on an infield single, a walk, a soft run-scoring single and an intentional walk to bring up Hirsh. With one hit in 26 career at-bats, Hirsh is not much of a threat. Which is why Glavine was a tad surprised when Hirsh grounded an outside fastball up the first-base line and it stayed fair, scooting beyond the reach of Carlos Delgado, to score two more runs. When the ball was hit, Glavine headed to cover first base. But he stopped when he saw it go past Delgado and hurried to back up home plate. 
 INSIDE PITCH
 With the All-Star Game break coming up, the Mets can afford to avoid taking any undue chances with Oliver Perez's sore lower back, and they placed him on the disabled list Monday. Jason Vargas, recalled from Class AAA New Orleans, will start Tuesday. As of now, the Mets have little reason to expect that Perez or Jorge Sosa (strained left hamstring) will miss any more time than the minimum 15 days. Sosa was scheduled to fly to Port St. Lucie, Fla., on Tuesday to begin his rehabilitation and Perez will join him there Wednesday. Perez's stay on the disabled list will be backdated to last Wednesday, making him eligible to return July 12 against Cincinnati, the Mets' first game after the break. ... Moises Alou, out since May 13 with a strained left quadriceps, is slowly but surely nearing a return to the Mets. The team's medical director, Dr. David Altchek, examined Alou and cleared him to resume baseball-related activities next Monday in Port St. Lucie. John Ricco, the Mets' assistant general manager said that Alou would need at least two weeks of rehabilitation but that he was still expected to return to left field by the end of this month.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Glavine, top right, gave up six runs in the third inning, while Carlos Beltran and the Mets offense was stifled by Jason Hirsh. (Photograph by Rick Giase/European Pressphoto Agency)(Photograph by David Zalubowski/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); ATHLETES (77%); LAYOFFS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



61 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Hoping to Retain Graduates, Maine Helps With Loan Costs

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: BANGOR, Me., July 2 

 BODY:
Seeking to discourage Maine college graduates from leaving the state, Gov. John Baldacci signed a bill Monday giving tax credits to lower the cost of student loans for those who stay in the state. 
 The program, called Opportunity Maine, starts in January and will apply only to new loans. The tax credit will last 10 years, or until the recipient moves out of state. 
 ''This is about our generation helping the next one,'' Mr. Baldacci, a Democrat, said in a statement. ''We're telling our students, If you live, work and pay taxes in Maine, you're not going to have this student debt hanging around your neck.'' 
 The tax credits will be capped at $2,100 a year, about the cost of taking 10 credits at the Orono campus of the University of Maine, not including fees.
 The program was initially brought forward as a ballot initiative spearheaded by young college graduates. It was passed by the Legislature instead of going to the voters.
 Proponents of the legislation say they know of no other similar program. A Montana state senator has proposed granting $500 tax credits to students who remain in that state, while a similar ballot initiative proposing tax incentives for students who stayed in North Dakota failed in 2003.
 State Representative Emily Ann Cain, Democrat of Orono, said the initiative passed because it was a ''good idea.'' Many students now leave the state in search of higher-paying jobs to help defer the cost of student loans, Ms. Cain said. 
 ''There's no cost-of-living adjustment for a student loan,'' Ms. Cain said. ''A 10-, 20-thousand-dollar loan is the same in Massachusetts or Maine. We're trying to take the edge off.'' 
 The legislation passed the House unanimously and the Senate 27 to 8. Opponents said they were concerned about the cost of the program. 
 Opportunity Maine is projected to cost the state $50 million in the next 10 to 15 years and perhaps more if the program is extended to new Maine residents who graduated from colleges outside the state, Ms. Cain said. The Legislature has not determined how it will pay for the program. 
 Proponents say the program will ultimately pay for itself because, unlike many state scholarship programs that offer free tuition but do not require residency after college, Opportunity Maine keeps graduates in the state to help the local economy. 
 ''This really has two objectives: to make education more affordable and accessible to the students of Maine, and keep people in Maine who want to stay here,'' said Tony Giampetruzzi, a spokesman for Opportunity Maine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); BALLOTS (73%); COST OF LIVING (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MAINE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGOR, ME, USA (58%) MAINE, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



62 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Co-ops Slip, but Condos Lead Rise In Manhattan Apartment Prices

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
While housing prices are falling in many parts of the country, the cost of a Manhattan apartment is continuing to rise over all. But a stark divide is emerging between the prices of co-ops and condominiums. More buyers are choosing condominiums over co-ops and are paying far more for them, according to studies being released today.
 The average price of a condo in Manhattan rose by as much as 28 percent in the second quarter of this year compared with last year, according to data tracked by four large real estate brokerages. In the same period, the average co-op price dropped by as much as 10 percent. Buyers paid an average of $1.49 million for a condominium, compared with $1.13 million for a co-op, according to figures from Brown Harris Stevens. 
 Brooklyn did not share Manhattan's price rise. There were more deals, but the average apartment price dropped by 4 percent, to $629,000, compared with last year, according to data from the Corcoran Group. 
 The decrease in the average price paid for co-ops in Manhattan does not mean that co-ops are dying; to some degree, it just shows that apartments sold in the quarter included a lot of small co-ops and a number of large condos, according to Brown Harris Stevens. In fact, in terms of average price per room, that brokerage found that postwar co-ops on the East Side remained the same and those on the West Side increased by 3 percent. 
 But brokers said that co-ops are also depressing their own prices because their boards require so much liquidity and assets that many buyers from overseas and people who work in finance are instead choosing condos. Hall Willkie, the president of Brown Harris Stevens, said that foreign buyers, especially Russians, have been snapping up sprawling multimillion-dollar condominiums. ''In the past, a lot bought pied-a-terres,'' he said. ''We see a lot of foreign buyers are buying very large apartments.''
 They also choose condos because they would probably not be approved by co-op boards, which often demand full-time residence. Pamela Liebman, the president of the Corcoran Group, said buyers also prefer the conveniences of new buildings and the perks like concierges who can ''stock my refrigerator, get my theater tickets and have my dog groomed.'' The dazzle of living in a new building doesn't hurt either, she said. ''New, new, new -- all of the foreign buyers love that.''
 Dottie Herman, the president of the brokerage Prudential Douglas Elliman, said co-op boards may be forced to change their rules. ''I've brought buyers that have tons of money, that have tons of assets, and still the co-op boards turn them down for no reason at all,'' she said. ''I do think that you're going to see co-ops ease up in some cases. The prices have gone up so much that some of the rules don't work today.''
 In some cases, buyers who can afford multimillion-dollar apartments are forced to buy condos or risk rejection from co-op boards because they are required to have a multiple of the apartment's price in liquid assets. Michele Kleier, president of Gumley Haft Kleier, said buyers in the $3.5 million to $4 million price range are choosing apartments in new buildings like the Lucida, at 151 East 85th Street, where they can live on the Upper East Side but avoid dealing with a co-op board and the extensive renovations that are often needed for a prewar apartment.
 The difficulty of getting past a co-op board is making it tough on sellers, she said. One of her listings was a Park Avenue apartment that required extensive renovations. Five buyers offered roughly the asking price, $4.95 million, but none had the extensive assets required by the board. The price was reduced to $4.75 million, and it ultimately sold for even less to a bidder who had assets acceptable to the board. 
 ''I looked at every single balance sheet and there was not one person among the five offers who had the assets to get into the building,'' Ms. Kleier said. 
 These eager and rich buyers are swallowing up the stock of condos. Today, Manhattan has just 5,237 apartments up for sale, compared with 7,640 condos and co-ops for sale last year at the same time, according to data tracked by the appraisal firm Miller Samuel. 
 Jonathan Miller, the president of Miller Samuel, said inventory is also shrinking because potential buyers had been renting until they were sure the market had stabilized. ''They have re-entered the market,'' he said. ''We've essentially eliminated most of the fat out of the inventory.''
 Among condos, the fastest price growth was among entry-level studios. The highest price increase in any size category was in the studio market, according to Brown Harris Stevens data. The average studio rose 26 percent to $574,197.
 ''The smaller units led the way in terms of price increases on the condo side,'' said Gregory J. Heym, an economist who prepared market studies for Brown Harris Stevens and Halstead Property.
 Manhattan's wealthiest buyers are paying even more money to get the most prized trophy homes, and they are not deterred by co-op board rules on assets. Brown Harris Stevens data showed that prices for co-ops with more than four bedrooms rose by 19 percent to an average of $7.016 million, compared with the same period a year ago. Town house prices also increased by 30 percent to $1,644 a square foot.
 Prices for Brooklyn town houses did not change, Mr. Heym said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (92%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); STATISTICS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); APPROVALS (63%)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (56%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



63 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'STANDING SILENT NATION'; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: The Battle Over Hemp On an Indian Reservation

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA HEFFERNAN

 BODY:
The story of a dirt-poor but enterprising family thwarted by shocking, stupid acts by jerks armed with red tape and guns produces a single effect: umbrage.
 It's good umbrage, mostly, that surging, almost euphoric response to a crusading documentary that frees you from the duty to be even-handed or hear out the other side. 
 The one side -- the good guys, the Oglala Lakotas, that is, in the perspective of ''Standing Silent Nation,'' tonight on ''P.O.V.'' on PBS -- has done everything so exactly right, so modestly and appropriately and life-lovingly and hopefully right. And the bad guys, the Drug Enforcement Administration and eventually certain quarters of the federal government, don't only seem heartless, they also come across as idiots. Even R. James Woolsey Jr., the former director of central intelligence and no one's pushover, says so. 
 The story is about the White Plumes, an impoverished, endangered Lakota family on the struggling Pine Ridge Indian Reservation (the site of the Wounded Knee massacre) in South Dakota. Citing the reservation's right as a sovereign nation (established by treaty) to grow whatever it might on its hardscrabble land, the White Plumes tried seven years ago to harvest industrial hemp. 
 Many other American Indians joined forces with them. Unemployment on the reservation stands at 85 percent. Their hope was that a banner crop like hemp (a botanical cousin of marijuana), which cannot by law be grown elsewhere in the United States, might get the tribe working again.
 But in spite of the apparent consensus that hemp crops would be good for the future of the Lakota, and the widespread doubt about the danger of hemp for the body politic, federal agents raided the crops the very first year. They took in trucks, guns and weed-whackers. They whacked and seized. And then the war was on. 
 Every year since, the White Plumes have tried to harvest hemp, and every year the federal agents have become more aggressive in trying to stop them.
 According to the film, hemp contains about 1 percent of the psychoactive substance THC (marijuana contains about 20 percent), and was commonly grown in the United States and used for rope and sails during World War II. Having been controlled before the war, growing hemp was criminalized thereafter in a sweeping effort to crack down on marijuana. Many people interviewed on the program, including Mr. Woolsey, believe that the ban was overzealous, as industrial hemp, a hearty and weedy plant with low environmental impact, has up to 25,000 uses, mostly as fiber and oil. It is also virtually impossible to use it to get high. Furthermore, if they are grown together, hemp ''contaminates'' marijuana, making it less potent as a mind-altering drug.
 Led by a merry, philosophical, even-keeled man named Alex White Plume, the White Plumes and their allies are impressive. Resigned and resilient at once, they make it hard to tell how and why they keep going when the cards seem so plainly stacked again them. As often as not, the absurdity of the government's position seems to amuse them slightly -- as does their perpetual defiance of it. 
 It is possible that in seeking a viable crop, the Oglala Lakota have found the next best thing: a purpose.
 P.O.V.
 Standing Silent Nation
 On most PBS stations tonight (check local listings).
 Courtney Hermann, producer; Suree Towfighnia, director and cinematographer; Sharon Karp, editor; American Documentary Inc., series producer. Produced by Prairie Dust Films in association with Native American Public Telecommunications.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A federal agent, J. C. Salley, with hemp from the Pine Ridge crop. (Photograph by Debra White Plume/''P.O.V.'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (92%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CANNABIS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); WORLD WAR II (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



64 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Rally Starts Third Quarter As Treasury Yields Decline

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street soared yesterday in the first day of trading for the third quarter, lifted by a decline in Treasury yields, a rise in June manufacturing and a spate of buyout news. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained more than 120 points after the Institute for Supply Management's June manufacturing index came in at 56.0, slightly higher than the market expected and indicating stronger expansion than May's 55.0 reading. 
 The yield of the 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.99 percent, from 5.02 percent on Friday, as investors flocked to safe-haven assets amid continued jitters about subprime lending. The 10-year note's price, which moves in the opposite direction, was up 9/32, to 96 7/32.
 The 10-year note's yield breached 5 percent in early June for the first time since last year, hit a peak of nearly 5.3 percent, and has since retreated. 
 ''There's favorable economic news and continuing merger talk. That's a pretty good recipe for the market,'' said Stuart Schweitzer, managing director and global markets strategist for JPMorgan Private Bank. He added, though, that the market had been seesawing in recent weeks and trading volumes were light, so the market's gain should not be interpreted as a turnaround just yet.
 The Dow Jones industrial index rose 126.81 points, or 0.95 percent, to 13,535.43. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 16.08 points, or 1.07 percent, to 1,519.43, and the Nasdaq composite index jumped 29.07 points, or 1.12 percent, to 2,632.30. 
 The combination of retreating yields and reports of buyout activity gave some relief to investors who were worried that business was slowing because of high rates.
 ''There's a little positive to the subprime woes, that being that interest rates are dropping now,'' said Steven Goldman, chief strategist at Weeden & Company in Greenwich, Conn.
 Bell Canada jumped $1.66, or 4.4 percent, to $39.45 on the New York Stock Exchange, after a $32.6 billion buyout offer over the weekend -- the biggest Canadian takeover ever -- from a consortium led by the Ontario Teachers Pension Plan Board.
 The news came after AT&T's announcement Friday that it had agreed to buy Dobson Communications, a rural wireless provider, for $2.8 billion. Dobson rose $1.31, or 11.8 percent, to $12.42, while AT&T climbed 35 cents, to $41.85.
 Yesterday, the British telecommunications company Virgin Media confirmed it had received a buyout offer, after reports that the Carlyle Group, the private equity firm, bid more than $11 billion for the company. Virgin Media soared $4.30, or 17.6 percent, to $28.67 on Nasdaq.
 Carlyle also made an offer for a nursing home chain, Manor Care, valued at $4.9 billion. Manor Care slipped $1.19, to $64.10.
 Investors appeared unfazed by oil prices. Crude oil futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange fell initially, but rebounded to rise 41 cents, to $71.09 a barrel, closing above $71 for the first time in 10 months.
 Trading volumes were low ahead of the Independence Day holiday tomorrow, when stock exchanges will be closed. The markets are closing early today.

GRAPHIC: Graph: ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' The graph shows the high rate at the weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); MERGERS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); INTEREST RATES (62%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (60%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); WEEDEN & CO LP (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (51%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (57%); JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



65 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: Iran Expands Role in Media, Via Satellite And in English

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

DATELINE: TEHRAN, July 2 

 BODY:
Iran on Monday put into operation a 24-hour English-language satellite television channel to extend its global reach during a period of growing pressure from the United States. 
 The satellite channel, called Press TV, is sponsored by Iran's state-run television operation, Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting.
 ''Press TV was born out of the need to break the global media stranglehold of Western outlets,'' the channel's Web site says. 
 The channel aims to compete with other 24-hour English-language satellite channels like BBC, CNN and Al Jazeera International, which is based in Qatar. 
 Press TV officials said last month that the station would present news every half hour and focus on developments in the Middle East and the United States.
 ''Press TV plans to present a new perspective to its viewers around the world,'' said Muhammad Sarafraz, the deputy director for international affairs, the Mehr News Agency reported. 
 The channel's Web site says the channel has 400 staff members, and 26 reporters worldwide. 
 Some of its correspondents are based in Washington, New York, London, Beirut and Damascus, it says. 
 President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad told the staff during an opening ceremony on Monday that the channel ''should stay beside the oppressed people of the world,'' the official Islamic Republic News Agency said. 
 ''Broadcasting the truth immediately, providing precise analysis and exposing the plots of propaganda networks of the enemy is among your duties,'' he was quoted as saying. 
 The United States has been putting increasing pressure on Iran over its role in Iraq and its nuclear program.
 The United States has accused Iran of having a clandestine nuclear weapons program and has urged members of the United Nations Security Council to impose tough economic sanctions on Iran. 
 But Iran contends that its program is for peaceful energy purposes.
 On Sunday, Iran's defense minister, Mostafa Mohammad Najjar, dismissed as a ''sheer lie'' any suggestions that Iran was militarily intervening in Iraq or that it supported Iraqi militants, IRNA reported.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad spoke yesterday at the inauguration ceremony in Tehran for Iran's first English-language satellite channel, Press TV. The channel aims to compete with CNN and similar networks. (Photograph by Yahid Salemi/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE TELEVISION (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); RELIGION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (89%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN (89%); SYRIA (79%); QATAR (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



66 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE HARD PART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1908 words

HEADLINE: Battling the Old Guard and the Rumor Mill

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: NEWARK, July 2 

 BODY:
The rumors and tall tales, born in Internet chat rooms and anonymous mailings, gain traction in barbershops, on basketball courts and after church on Sunday.
 Mayor Cory A. Booker is not really black. 
 One of his top aides moonlights as a cocaine dealer. 
 The city is about to lay off African-American crossing guards and replace them with low-wage immigrants. 
 ''From what I hear, Cory Booker doesn't even live here,'' Esta Williams, 75, said during a raucous Municipal Council meeting last month where dozens of residents called for his removal from office. ''I hear he lives in a fancy house in the suburbs.''
 In the year since his inauguration, Mr. Booker has enjoyed national celebrity as a rising black political star, but here at home, he and his chief aides find themselves at war with an amorphous enemy of innuendo that preys on this city's deep-seated mistrust of outsiders and fear of change. 
 Underpinning the rumor mill are more credible complaints about the mayor's policies and decisions, forming a stream of dissent that threatens both his confidence and his political coalition. 
 Some leaders of the opposition are, unsurprisingly, partisans of the former mayor, Sharpe James, and others who have lost jobs, power and access in the Booker administration.
 But a few of the Council members Mr. Booker helped elect have turned renegade, several outspoken leaders of the city's black majority have become persistent critics, and a recall movement, while still a long shot, has been gathering steam. 
 To bolster claims that he is a front man for predatory outside investors, critics point to the $4 million in municipal contracts the city has given to lawyers, many of them contributors to the mayor's campaign. (Mr. Booker notes that the contracts were awarded through competitive bidding.) In a city where 53 percent of residents are black, many are unhappy that Mr. Booker's top two police officials and his fire chief are white.
 A common refrain is that most of his inner circle was recruited from outside Newark. Mr. Booker counters that he makes hiring decisions based on merit, not home address, that most of his top appointees from outside Newark have since moved here, and that many of the previous mayor's deputies resided in suburbia. 
 ''He thinks he's some superstar, that he's better than everyone else,'' said Rahaman Muhammad, a local union leader whose relationship with the mayor has soured in recent months. ''A lot of folks say he doesn't really understand what is happening in this city.'' 
 George Mytrowitz, the owner of a downtown auto body shop, said he felt betrayed by the mayor, who promised during the campaign to protect his neighborhood in the shadow of Newark's new hockey arena but lately has moved to evict small businesses there to make way for a redevelopment project. ''He's supposed to be a reformer, but now he's supporting the developers over us little guys,'' Mr. Mytrowitz said.
 Black Opposition
 At the June 20 Council hearing that drew a vocal cluster of critics, Amiri Baraka, the firebrand poet and an unofficial spokesman for the discontented, lambasted Mr. Booker for recruiting a ''fascist dummy'' police director from New York and accused the mayor of firing 1,200 city workers (the administration says the number is around 400). As the protesters hooted and howled approvingly, Mr. Baraka suggested the mayor was more concerned with ''rich white folks'' than local residents. 
 ''Some people around the city are beginning to call this place 'occupied Newark,' '' he boomed into the microphone. ''Booker is what they call a comprador, that is an agent of outside interests. And a comprador will sell us out.''
 Mr. Booker, whose skin tone and privileged upbringing have long brought accusations that he is not authentically black, still enjoys broad support, especially among Hispanics, Portuguese-Americans and business leaders, but he is increasingly bumping up against a knot of opposition from African-Americans, led by members of the old-guard political establishment who have long viewed him with suspicion. 
 Like many elected officials, Mr. Booker has tried to take on the most contentious issues early in his term in hopes that dissent will have subsided by re-election time: he struggles to contain a high murder rate and a budget shortfall that could force layoffs of up to 20 percent of the municipal work force. But the critics have become a vexing distraction.
 Mr. Booker, who often appears unnerved when confronted by naysayers, has been talking with his advisers in recent weeks about strategies to counteract the tide of discontent and to burnish his image.
 In early June, at a homecoming event in Harrington Park, where he grew up, Mayor Booker denounced his detractors as ''dark angels,'' a group of people he said had been acting out of fear and self-interest.
 ''Newarkers have this sense that their city was abandoned and that the only people who benefited lived outside the city,'' he said during a lecture at a public library in Harrington Park, the upscale, predominantly white borough where his parents, both African-Americans, raised their two sons after successfully suing a real estate broker who had refused to sell them a home. ''They have this belief that these people are going to come back from over the hills and take over.''
 The administration's defenders say that most of the recall initiative's backers are simply seeking to regain the status they lost with the departure of Mr. James, who ran the city for two decades after serving 16 years in the Council. Mr. Baraka's son, Ras Baraka, for example, was a former South Ward council member and deputy mayor under Mr. James who lost his Council seat in the pro-Booker tsunami that swept into office last year. Colleen Walton, the city's former director of human resources, and Patricia Sellers-Bradford, a taxi commissioner, both of whom were replaced after Mr. Booker took office, are also leaders in the recall movement. 
 In a city whose main employer is local government and where unemployment is 8.5 percent, almost twice the state average, being a shrill mayoral critic has frequently led to a job in City Hall. Both Dr. Walton and Ms. Sellers-Bradford, for instance, were tenacious thorns for Mayor James until he brought them into his administration. Mr. Booker, in an interview, said Ms. Sellers-Bradford had approached him in recent months seeking a job. 
 Those who have survived and thrived in the hurly-burly of Newark's political culture say spreading disinformation, sometimes through unsigned mass mailings, is a vaunted tradition that dates back to the first half of the last century, when Italian and Irish immigrants ruled the city and adeptly stirred up xenophobia. As African-Americans have taken over City Hall in the past generation, this legacy has been fanned by a longstanding distrust of authority among blacks and decades of disenfranchisement. 
 ''When there's uncertainty, people are more likely to fill the vacuum with information they can use to rationalize what they see happening around them, especially when legitimate forms of communication are suspect,'' said Patricia A. Turner, a professor of African-American studies at the University of California, Davis, and the author of ''I Heard it Through the Grapevine: Rumor in African-American Culture.'' 
 Newark has had a black mayor since the 1970 election of Kenneth Gibson, who served 16 years. Then came Mr. James, who solidified black political power and provided scores of civil service jobs to black residents.
 Mr. Booker, whose electionwas fueled by millions of dollars raised outside the city, has largely rejected such patronage. But many members of his top staff are longtime political allies or old friends from his days at Stanford or Yale.
 Seen as a Carpetbagger
 The same attributes that have endeared him to national audiences -- his Clintoneseque oratory, his love of the television camera and his friendships with boldface luminaries like Oprah Winfrey and Gayle King -- have helped feed the mistrust among black residents who see him as a carpetbagger using City Hall as a steppingstone.
 Richard Thigpen, a lobbyist for Public Service Electric and Gas and a former pollster whose relatives represent Newark at nearly every level of government, said of Mr. Booker, ''He's a well-educated and worldly guy who could go anywhere, but the political challenge in front of him is gaining the confidence of African-American voters.
 ''People here don't really know him, so they're filling the vacuum with rumors and innuendo.''
 Sitting in his office surrounded by portraits of civil rights leaders, the Rev. Dr. Jethro C. James, pastor of Paradise Baptist Church, said recently that many members of the city's black old guard were unhappy with the mayor's governing style, his willingness to consider layoffs, and his decision to allow a rainbow-colored flag to appear over City Hall in June to mark Gay Pride Month. ''He hasn't endeared himself to the black folks, and that is going to get him into trouble,'' the pastor said.
 Dr. James described Mr. Booker, who has a degree from Oxford, as ''an academic freak'' and ''multimillionaire,'' and said he felt particularly bruised by the mayor's refusal to make him City Hall's official liaison to Newark's clergy. He said he used to reach the former mayor with one phone call, and was offended when Mr. Booker suggested that the best way to communicate with him was text messaging.
 For his part, Mr. Booker, in an interview in his office a few days later, rattled off a list of things he had done for Newark's black residents: renovating two recreation centers, creating 1,300 summer jobs for teenagers and establishing a $2 million college scholarship fund. Dr. James, the mayor said, was simply upset that he had not been given a job. Mr. Booker said that text messaging is how even his closest friends get in touch.
 Still, he acknowledged that his administration had ''got to do better at getting the word out'' to residents about his plans and policies. It does not help that many of his first-year priorities -- creating a new Planning Department, instituting campaign-finance restrictions and promoting a federal tax-credit program -- do not inspire voters the way ribbon cuttings and lower homicide figures do. 
 ''We've hit so many singles and doubles, but perhaps some of what we've accomplished is stuff that makes people's eyes glaze over,'' he said. 
 At the Council meeting June 20, dozens of Mr. Booker's most determined enemies, wearing T-shirts shouting ''Recall,'' faced off against a small army of supporters whose shirts read, ''Cory Booker: Moving Newark Forward.'' (A third group, union members opposed to the mayor's plan for buyouts, wore ''We supported Cory Booker and all we got was this lousy T-shirt.'')
 Inside the chambers, fliers on each seat listed the mayor's achievements and described the recall's backers as ''tricksters'' and ''hypocrites.'' Outside, Donald Jackson, 14, in a ''Recall Cory Booker'' baseball cap and shirt, was one of several volunteers collecting signatures in hopes of gathering the 32,000 needed to hold a special recall election. He said his aunt had recruited him.
 ''He hasn't done one positive thing for Newark,'' Donald said. Asked who might make a better mayor, the youth thought for a moment and then shook his head. ''It doesn't matter,'' he said. ''Anyone but Booker.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Opponents of Mayor Cory Booker, including Frank Hurtz, standing, crowded a Municipal Council meeting in June. The mayor and his aides face Newark's distrust of outsiders. (Photograph by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
Mayor Booker, plagued by unfounded rumors, with Esta M. Williams, 75, who said she had heard that Mr. Booker didn't even live in Newark. He does. (Photograph by Rob Bennett for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
At a Council meeting, Colleen Walton, an official in the James administration, supported Mr. Booker's recall.
Mayor Booker, center, toured the renovated Fifth Precinct station with its commander, Sheila Coley, and Police Director Garry F. McCarthy.(Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (75%); SUBURBS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); CHAT ROOMS (73%); COCAINE (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); CONTRACT AWARDS (68%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (68%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



67 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: The Axis Upon Which the Women's Game Turns

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

DATELINE: Wimbledon, England 

 BODY:
 They are the personification of the rain clouds at Wimbledon, storming in, rolling out, churning emotions, wreaking havoc. Wherever they go, the Williamses are a continuous, compelling drama, a subject of essential tennis debate. 
 What would the women's game -- and especially America's -- be without them?
 Wimbledon slogged along yesterday into its second week, and the story was about whether the Williamses would last the day even more than it was about the weather. As it turned out, Venus Williams survived a lame third-round performance against Akiko Morigami before her not-so-little-sister, Serena, beat what seemed to be the insurmountable odds of pulling up lame. 
 Rain saved her after her left calf muscle spasmed deep in the second set against Daniela Hantuchova, making her writhe on the grass, grimace, cry and limp her way to a 4-2 tie-break deficit. At that point, the television cameras caught Venus mouthing the words, ''Come on, rain.'' Then Richard Williams stood up and pointed to the sky, his personal casting call for the role of Richard Almighty. 
 The spitting became a downpour. Play was suspended. In the evening, Serena returned nearly two hours later to lose the tie breaker, psych out the fragile Hantuchova with thunderous winners and stiff-legged movement, limp away with after a 6-2, 6-7 (2), 6-2 victory and leave her mother, Oracene Price, an exhausted maternal mess.
 Price described the ''two crazy matches'' to begin the second week of this nutty Wimbledon and her overall day as worse than watching all those joyless Venus-Serena Grand Slam finals. ''Cause with each other, one's going to win, one's going to lose, it's inevitable,'' she said.
 The vigil times two of this fascinating tennis mother does not end. Next, Price will have to watch Serena play a quarterfinal against No. 1 Justine Henin tomorrow, while Venus, still playing catch-up, tackles No. 2 Maria Sharapova today in the fourth round. The Williamses are the last Americans in the women's draw, no big surprise, as decades of tradition and excellence have come down to them. 
 The big names they once elbowed aside to much reveling and resistance -- Monica Seles, Jennifer Capriati and Lindsay Davenport -- have moved on, and as Price said in the players' lounge between her daughters' matches, ''We have nothing coming up.''
 By ''we,'' she meant the United States tennis family at large, not her own, which has 13 Grand Slam titles, 8 claimed by Serena, which is more than most countries have cobbled together over the entire course of women's tennis history. But nobody has yet to certify the new can't-miss American women's prodigies -- or the men's, for that matter -- and the sport is gaining footholds in distant continents and atrophying in America.
 ''People may think we like it this way, but to me it's a burden,'' Price said, and that was before she had to suffer with Serena.
 She said she got her first glimpse of the new women's tennis order several years ago, on a trip with her daughters to Moscow. ''You saw all those little girls being trained and trained, and they're all playing on the Tour,'' she said. ''And now you've got the Serbs and the Chinese, and the thing that most of these girls have in common is that they're hungry, people who want to better themselves through sports.''
 Richard Williams, her ex-husband, speaks out about this occasionally, usually in starker, more race-based language. The reality is that it's more of an economic issue, a developmental sea change from the old country club model.
 ''Our people talk about it, but it takes a real commitment,'' Price said. ''It's ridiculous that we don't have young players following Venus and Serena.'' 
 Minutes ago, it seemed that her Venus was the future, a gangly, confident teenager, beaded braids swaying like chimes on a sun-drenched New York afternoon.
 Where have the years and all those well-struck winners gone? Yesterday, in a mixture of Wimbledon gray and Williams gloom, Price was looking down on Court 2, long known here as the Graveyard Court, watching Venus make a mess of a match she should have won easily, wondering if she was watching another Venus, now 27, slide inexorably toward tennis career burial.
 The good news as Morigami stepped up to the service line, four points from ousting Venus, a three-time Wimbledon champion, was that Venus was not returning the gaze of her mother, as she had earlier in the match.
 ''That's when I knew she was focused, not ready to lose,'' Price said. ''Not yet.''
 In a blur of winners from Venus and a bundle of nerves that enveloped Morigami, Williams won four straight games to win, 6-2, 3-6, 7-5. In a match continued from Saturday, Williams mastered Morigami, also 27, who has never gotten the third round of a Grand Slam event, is ranked 71st and is all of 5 feet 5 inches. 
 Survival becomes more problematic today against Sharapova, someone Venus's own size and status. And tomorrow, in the abstract sense, beyond Wimbledon and 2007, even her mother wouldn't venture a guess.
 ''I don't really know,'' Price said when asked how much longer the storybook saga of the Williams sisters will continue. ''I know Serena still loves it.'' 
 This was as direct an indirect answer as a devoted mother could give, and how it would resonate several hours later.
 Richard Williams said he told Serena during the rain delay, ''Let's go home, baby.'' Price also said she wanted her to quit but added, ''She's not going to listen to me, not when it comes to Wimbledon.''
 When Venus was dominant and Serena was the wannabe kid sister, people used to say Serena wouldn't or couldn't fight through adversity. This was a myth she debunked long ago and again yesterday, when she bested her own body, beat the odds and by winning the third set so handily, the downpour that suspended play for the night.
 Minutes later, in the players' lounge again and under a canopy, Price shook her head and forced a smile.
 ''I had quite a day, I sure did,'' she said, her emotions churning as she stayed out of the rain at the end of a typically stormy Williams tennis family day.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Serena Williams, left, and her mother, Oracene Price, watching Venus Williams play last week. (Photograph by David Moir/Reuters)(pg. D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (90%); WOMEN (89%)

PERSON: VENUS WILLIAMS (89%); SERENA WILLIAMS (79%); MARIA SHARAPOVA (58%); JUSTINE HENIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



68 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Short on Money, McCain Campaign Dismisses Dozens

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and ADAM NAGOURNEY. 
Marc Santora and David D. Kirkpatrick contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The presidential campaign of Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who once seemed poised to be his party's nominee in 2008, acknowledged yesterday that it was in a political and financial crisis as a drop in fund-raising forced it to dismiss dozens of workers and aides and retool its strategy on where to compete.
 The campaign said the decline in contributions had left it with $2 million. It said it had raised just $11.2 million over the last three months, despite Mr. McCain's promise to do better than his anemic $13 million showing in the first three months of the year.
 Mr. McCain's advisers blamed his close association with the recently defeated immigration bill, which was strongly opposed by conservatives already skeptical of his ideological credentials. But he has also had to contend with a host of other issues, including his support of the Iraq war, opposition from evangelical voters, the prospect of former Senator Fred D. Thompson's entry into the race, and the sense that his continuing struggles to raise money were consuming the campaign and making fund-raising even more difficult. 
 Mr. McCain was visiting Iraq as his aides moved to reshuffle his campaign organization a second time. They said they would focus his efforts now on three states with early contests: Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina. 
 The problems fueled speculation that Mr. McCain would pull out of the race, a notion that his aides were quick to reject.
 They also sent a jolt of uncertainty through Republican circles when many in the party are uneasy with their current candidates and are worried about their prospects against a far more determined Democratic field.
 The party has failed to coalesce around a favored candidate, with conservatives skeptical of Rudolph W. Giuliani's support of abortion rights and Mitt Romney facing scrutiny for shifting his positions on key social issues.
 Mr. McCain's campaign was in flux particularly in Iowa, where half of his 16-member staff was let go yesterday, campaign officials said. His state director left, and Jon Seaton, his national field director, headed to Iowa to take over.
 Department heads spent yesterday calling in lower-level staff members to inform them of their dismissals. Mr. McCain's advisers said they were cutting back on consultants, with those in the fund-raising area losing their guaranteed monthly retainers. The moves amounted to a sharp scaling back of what had once been a gold-plated campaign. 
 Top advisers to Mr. McCain, a Vietnam veteran known for his maverick streak, said the problems might force him to accept federal matching money, which could pump $6 million into his primary campaign but force him to abide by strict spending limits.
 Mr. McCain's aides expressed hope that with the immigration battle over, the campaign could recover its momentum as the focus shifted to other issues, like federal spending. And the history of American primary campaigns is replete with examples of troubled candidates rising from major setbacks.
 ''The decisions we made today were not easy,'' said Terry Nelson, the McCain campaign manager, who said he would no longer accept a salary.
 While refusing to go into detail about the depth of the cuts or say exactly how many staff members had been fired, Mr. Nelson said ''every department'' had been affected. Republicans close to the campaign said that at least 50 and as many as 80 people were being let go, out of a staff of around 150 people.
 Campaign strategists said Mr. McCain's ability to raise money was severely limited in recent weeks by the reaction to his support of the immigration legislation, which collapsed last Thursday in the Senate. They said Mr. McCain was now looking to raise $50 million this year -- half of what he once expected -- and was retooling the campaign to save as much money as possible for television advertising and travel.
 ''Clearly, we didn't meet our goals for the second quarter in fund-raising, which I largely attribute to the immigration legislation that has dominated the news for the past two months, and his position is not too popular with our small donors,'' said Charlie Black, a senior Washington political strategist who is a volunteer adviser to Mr. McCain. ''We have got to restructure the budget and the organization.'' 
 Mr. Black and others dismissed any suggestion that the moves were a precursor to Mr. McCain's dropping out, particularly with the race still in its early stages and with no other candidate breaking away. John Weaver, another senior adviser to Mr. McCain, said the senator would now focus almost exclusively on the three early primary and caucus states.
 After the defeat of the immigration bill, Mr. McCain told reporters he had no intention of leaving the race despite the setback on what has become a driving issue for him.
 ''Why would I contemplate such a thing?'' he said. ''I don't know why I would even remotely consider such a thing in the month of June and July. It's always been hard for me to raise money. None of the special interests are contributing because they don't want me to be president.'' 
 Mr. McCain's allies in the Senate had hoped that approval of the immigration legislation would help him politically by showing that there was consensus on his position, tightening the borders while offering the prospect of legal residency to some illegal immigrants. But the widespread Republican abandonment of the bill only further undercut him and caused him particular trouble in Iowa, where aides said polls had found that his support had plummeted to single-digit numbers.
 The scene yesterday at McCain headquarters in suburban Virginia was described as somber. People were called in and told they were being dismissed, effective immediately. They were given two weeks' severance pay. A dozen senior campaign aides either agreed to work without salary or for less pay.
 Senior McCain advisers say they realized over the past few months that they had to change the mindset that they were running what one called a ''Bush-Cheney campaign,'' with the plush offices, army of consultants and extended staff befitting a front-runner. Mr. McCain himself had raised questions about the size of the operation and also bristled at making fund-raising calls.
 Rival campaigns said they still considered Mr. McCain a threat, but added that the decision to reduce his staff in the primary states of Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina could be disastrous because a strong organization was crucial.
 Mr. Black, the McCain adviser, was adamant that the senator was competitive in those states and said the end of the immigration fight could ultimately help Mr. McCain by shifting attention from the issue.
 ''This will fade over time,'' he said. ''He has got as good a chance as anyone else.''
 The immigration battle resonated particularly in South Carolina, where the state's two Republican senators split on the measure. Senator Lindsey Graham, a top McCain ally, supported the bill, and Senator Jim DeMint was a leading opponent.
 Katon Dawson, the chairman of the South Carolina Republican Party, said that Mr. McCain had been hurt but that the race there would be decided on more than one issue.
 ''I do think it has wounded him, but I don't think it has taken him out of the game,'' Mr. Dawson said. ''There is time to recover from this.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John McCain's early struggles are a sign of the unsettled Republican field. (Photograph by Nell Redmond/Associated Press)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); IMMIGRATION (69%); VIETNAM WAR (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); RELIGION (53%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007



69 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: At A Theater Near You ...

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
London
 I knew something was up when I couldn't get a cab. Then there were sirens and helicopters whirring overhead. I stopped a passerby to ask what was going on. He said something about a car bomb outside a disco six blocks from my hotel. A few hours later, I finally found a taxi. The driver warned me that it was nearly impossible to get across town. Another bomb had been uncovered in a car park. Next day, more news: a suicide bomber had driven his Jeep into an airport and jumped out, his body on fire, screaming ''Allah! Allah!''
 Where was I? Baghdad? Kabul? Tel Aviv? No, I was in England. But it could have been anywhere. The Middle East: Now playing at a theater near you. 
 But this movie gets more confusing every time you watch it. When you watched it on 9/11 it was about America's presence in the heart of Arabia. And when you watched it on 7/7 it was about unemployed and alienated Muslim youth in Britain. In Jordan not long ago it was about a wedding at a Western hotel. In Morocco recently it was about an Internet cafe. And two days ago in Yemen it was about seven Spanish tourists who were killed when a suicide bomber drove into them at a local tourist site. Wasn't Spain the country that quit Iraq to get its people out of the line of fire?
 Because these incidents are scattered, we're growing numb to just how crazy they are. In the past few years, hundreds of Muslims have committed suicide amid innocent civilians -- without making any concrete political demands and without generating any vigorous, sustained condemnation in the Muslim world.
 Two trends are at work here: humiliation and atomization. Islam's self-identity is that it is the most perfect and complete expression of God's monotheistic message, and the Koran is God's last and most perfect word. To put it another way, young Muslims are raised on the view that Islam is God 3.0. Christianity is God 2.0. Judaism is God 1.0. And Hinduism and all others are God 0.0.
 One of the factors driving Muslim males, particularly educated ones, into these acts of extreme, expressive violence is that while they were taught that they have the most perfect and complete operating system, every day they're confronted with the reality that people living by God 2.0., God 1.0 and God 0.0 are generally living much more prosperously, powerfully and democratically than those living under Islam. This creates a real dissonance and humiliation. How could this be? Who did this to us? The Crusaders! The Jews! The West! It can never be something that they failed to learn, adapt to or build. This humiliation produces a lashing out.
 In the old days, you needed a terror infrastructure with bases in Beirut or Afghanistan to lash out in a big way. Not anymore. Now all you need is the virtual Afghanistan -- the Internet and a few cellphones -- to recruit, indoctrinate, plan and execute. Hence, the atomization -- little terror groups sprouting everywhere. Everyone now has a starter kit.
 Gen. Michael Hayden, the C.I.A. director, recently noted in a speech that during the cold war ''the enemy was easy to find, but hard to finish,'' because the Soviet Union was so big and powerful. ''Intelligence was important'' back then, he added, ''but it was overshadowed by the need for sheer firepower.''
 In today's war against terrorist groups, said General Hayden, ''it's just the opposite. Our enemy is easy to finish, but hard to find. Today, we are looking for individuals or small groups planning suicide bombings, running violent Jihadist Web sites, sending foreign fighters into Iraq.''
 I'd go one step further. The Soviet Union was easy to find and hard to kill, but once it died, it was dead forever. It had no regenerative power because it had no popular base. The terrorists of Iraq or London are hard to find, easy to kill, but very difficult to eliminate. New recruits just keep sprouting.
 Of course, not all Muslims are terrorists. But it's been widely noted that virtually all suicide terrorists today are Muslims. Angry Norwegians aren't doing this -- nor are starving Africans or unemployed Mexicans. Muslims have got to understand that a death cult has taken root in the bosom of their religion, feeding off it like a cancerous tumor.
 This cancer is erasing basic norms of civilization. In Iraq, we've seen suicide bombers blow up funerals and schools. In England, seven out of the eight people detained in the latest plot are Muslim doctors or medical students. Doctors plotting mass murder? Could that be? If Muslim leaders don't remove this cancer -- and only they can -- it will spread, tainting innocent Muslims and poisoning their relations with each other and the world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); HELICOPTERS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); SUICIDE (70%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (67%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (65%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) YEMEN (79%); JORDAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ENGLAND (79%); MOROCCO (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MIDDLE EAST (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007



70 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Big Investors Sound Note Of Caution

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON, July 3 

 BODY:
Executives of private equity companies like the Blackstone Group and Alchemy Partners said Tuesday that the increasing levels of leverage in the financial markets should stir caution among investors and signal that the market is ''somewhere near its top.'' 
 Jon Moulton, managing partner at Alchemy, told politicians at a parliamentary committee hearing on the private equity industry in London that some deals were being withdrawn and others were struggling to raise debt, indicating the market might be reaching its peak.
 Permira Advisers and Apax Partners Worldwide failed this week to receive the minimum price they asked for the New Look Group, the British fashion chain they own, amid concerns about further interest rate increases that would make borrowing more expensive. The rising costs of credit prompted Permira and Blackstone earlier this year to drop out of the bidding for the Coles Group, an Australian retailer, and U.S. Foodservice had to postpone a bond offering after facing resistance from investors.
 David S. Blitzer, senior managing director at Blackstone, said he did not think there was ''excessive leverage in the system'' but that there had been some transactions with ''very high ratios.'' The top investment banks are lending at an average 6.4 times debt-to-earnings ratio, more than the Financial Services Authority of Britain said it had expected. 
 Rising leverage levels raised concern among investors about the possibility of a company's defaulting on its interest payments. Mr. Moulton for the first time drew parallels between the leveraged buyout industry and the subprime lending market in the United States, saying the leveraged buyout market could face ''the same sort of problems'' resulting from ''overenthusiastic markets'' that could soon dry up. 
 Mr. Blitzer disagreed, saying the similarities were limited because private equity firms conducted due diligence before investing in any companies. 
 The private equity executives also had to answer questions about the British tax rules that applied to private equity firms. Lawmakers, trade union representatives and some private equity managers said last month that the industry was not paying enough taxes on its investments. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); EXECUTIVES (79%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); TAX LAW (76%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (75%); SUBPRIME LENDING (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); BOND ISSUES (72%); BONDS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (69%); RETAILERS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (61%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (92%); APAX PARTNERS LTD (71%); NEW LOOK GROUP PLC (57%); COLES GROUP LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (54%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (71%); NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (57%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS445310 BEER, WINE & LIQUOR STORES (56%); SIC5921 LIQUOR STORES (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007



71 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: The Center Shouldn't Hold

BYLINE: By ANDRO LINKLATER. 
Andro Linklater is the author of ''The Fabric of America: How Our Borders and Boundaries Shaped the Country and Forged Our National Identity.''

DATELINE: Markbeech, England 

 BODY:
 IT'S just a red stake stuck in an anonymous spread of pasture 20 miles north of Belle Fourche, S.D., a rodeo town of about 5,000 inhabitants. But it is also the geographical center of the United States of America, as defined by the National Geodetic Survey in 1959. Or at least it is for now. 
 To find it, says Teresa Schanzenbach, executive director of the town's chamber of commerce, ''you have go into a ditch, cross a barbed-wire fence and maneuver amongst the cactus and cow pies.'' So, plans are that in August, the center of the nation is to be moved 20 miles south, and an eye-catching granite monument will be unveiled in Belle Fourche itself so that visitors can see it more easily.
 This may seem like a high-handed way to treat both geography and the United States itself. Certainly the implications reach well beyond Belle Fourche. Is the balance of the nation going to be affected? Will there be a seismic tilt towards Canada? And can we be sure that the center won't shift again? History certainly suggests that it will -- and within the foreseeable future. 
 The event that made Belle Fourche the focal point of the nation's land mass was the admission of Hawaii and Alaska in 1959. Never have the frontiers of the United States remained fixed for so long.
 From the Treaty of Paris in 1783 that pushed the frontier of the union to the Mississippi River, expansionism has been the driving force in American history. The roll call of increase is familiar -- the Louisiana Purchase in 1803, the acquisition of Florida and the Gulf Coast in 1819, the annexation of Texas in 1845, the Oregon Treaty in 1846 and the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, in which Mexico gave up much of the Southwest, two years later.
 Naturally the geographical center snaked westward in step. From the District of Columbia, the Belle Fourche of its day as the midpoint of the 13 original states, it jumped in 1803 to Columbus, Ky., where the inhabitants decided to create a magnificent wide-avenued grid beside the Mississippi in the expectation that their town would become the nation's new capital. Before a brick could be laid, however, the center had moved south to Tennessee, then west to the Ozarks, and by 1859 John Gilpin, the governor of Colorado, felt able to suggest that a point near Omaha should become ''the cardinal basis for the future empire now erecting itself upon the North American continent.'' 
 By rights, the frontiers of this anticipated empire would have enclosed both Canada and Central America. ''I look off on Canada,'' confessed William H. Seward, soon to be Lincoln's secretary of state, ''and see there an ingenious, enterprising and ambitious people ... and I am able to say, 'It is very well, you are building excellent states to be hereafter admitted into the American Union.' I can look southwest and see amid all the convulsions that are breaking the Spanish-American republics, the preparatory stage for their re-organization in free, equal and self-governing members of the United States of America.''
 That this exalted vision should have ground to a halt with Seward's purchase of Alaska and the later annexation of Hawaii ensured that the geographical center would migrate no further than to a field in South Dakota. But before the inhabitants of Belle Fourche invest too much money in a permanent monument, they should consider whether the age of expansionism is indeed over. In particular they might cast a wary glance at the Security and Prosperity Partnership of North America, which was created in 2005 by President Bush and counterparts in Mexico and Canada. 
 Anti-immigration drum-beaters like CNN's Lou Dobbs and Representative Virgil Goode, a Virginia Republican, routinely portray the partnership as a threat to United States sovereignty. They like to cite an early recommendation by the Council on Foreign Relations, an independent body despite its official-sounding title, that by 2010 the partnership should lead to ''a North American economic and security community'' enclosed within a shared ''outer security perimeter.'' 
 True, such a plan would require the creation of several supranational agencies -- a North American commission to establish regulations harmonizing the economic and security policies of the three nations, a North American secretariat to monitor their observance, and a North American court to enforce their compliance. One of the oft-repeated talking points for critics of the partnership is that its purpose is to ''remove sovereignty from the United States and give it to a North American union similar to the European Union.''
 The Bush administration dismisses such claims as ''conspiracy theories,'' ''myths'' and ''lies.'' It created a Web site to inform the public that the partnership is not an agreement or a treaty but a ''dialogue'' to help reduce barriers to trade and enhance security against a terrorist attack; that the Council on Foreign Relations has no official standing; that no plans exist for a supposed superhighway from Mexico; that no North American Union is contemplated; and above all that ''the S.P.P. does not attempt to modify our sovereignty or currency or change the American system of government designed by our founding fathers.''
 All of which would seem clear enough -- were it not for the intriguing report issued in February by the partnership's entirely official North American Competitiveness Council, made up of leaders from the region's largest companies, including General Motors, Wal-Mart, Chevron and United Parcel Service. Among some 50 proposals, the council recommended a common ''North American customs clearance system'' by 2010, a ''trilateral tax treaty'' and the establishment of a ''North American standard'' as the ''default approach'' for regulations in all three countries covering food, agriculture, manufacturing, transport and intellectual property rights. Their recommendations are expected to be taken up when President Bush, President Felipe Calderon of Mexico and Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada meet next month.
 Is there any way of reconciling this clear route to supranational regulation of economic and social policies with the denial that it will diminish United States sovereignty? Actually, there is. 
 Unlike the European Union, where six large nations jostle for power with 21 others of varying size, any North American model would inevitably be dominated by the partner whose population and economy are respectively almost three and six times bigger than those of the other two put together. It is significant that even at this early stage, all Security and Prosperity Partnership agreements have involved the United States, although often excluding one of the other two partners, and that American regulations are the norm for most of the partnership's 24 existing bilateral and trilateral agreements covering trade and security.
 In other words, folks like Mr. Dobbs and Representative Goode are facing in the wrong direction. The partnership is increasing rather than diminishing the scope of United States sovereignty. History is resuming its normal course. It may be slower than invasion or purchase, but the regulations and agencies needed to enforce them will pull Canada and Mexico within the reach of United States jurisdiction as effectively as any means that Seward envisioned. Meanwhile, the citizens of Belle Fourche would be well advised to make the new geographical center of the United States transportable. It may eventually need to travel to somewhere near Omaha.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROPERTY ANNEXATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); HISTORY (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (78%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007



72 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Factory Orders Drop by 0.5%, A Result Better Than Expected

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 3 

 BODY:
Demand for products from America's factories fell by a smaller-than-expected 0.5 percent in May, suggesting that despite some pockets of weakness the revival in manufacturing continues. 
 The drop, reported Tuesday by the Commerce Department, reversed April's increase of 0.5 percent in orders for a range of manufactured goods. The decline in May mostly reflected weaker demand for airplanes. Fewer orders for construction equipment, industrial machinery and household appliances -- a byproduct of the housing slump -- also figured prominently in the overall decline.
 The 0.5 percent dip was a much better showing than the 1.2 percent decline that economists said they were expecting.
 ''What we've been seeing is two steps forward, one step back. So net-net we're moving ahead,'' said Kenneth Mayland, president of ClearView Economics.
 In Tuesday's manufacturing report, the softness was concentrated in demand for big-ticket durable goods -- costly manufactured items expected to last at least three years. Orders for durables fell by 2.4 percent in May, after rising 1 percent in April.
 Demand for nondurable goods like food and chemicals rose by a strong 1.6 percent in May. That was an improvement from the flat reading registered in April.
 An increase in orders was reported in May for a range of food and rubber products, tobacco, leather goods, chemicals and plastics. But demand for clothing, paper and pharmaceuticals and medicines declined.
 The national economy barely grew in the January-to-March quarter, expanding at a pace of just 0.7 percent, the weakest in more than four years. Many economists, however, predict growth in the April-to-June period will bounce back to a pace of 2.3 percent to 3 percent.
 With the outlook for growth to revive but inflation to recede somewhat in coming quarters, the Federal Reserve last week left a key interest rate at 5.25 percent, where it has stood for a year. Many economists say they believe the Fed could leave rates unchanged through the rest of this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); INDUSTRIAL RUBBER PRODUCTS (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (74%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); RUBBER & SILICONE PRODUCTS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (62%); INTEREST RATES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007



73 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Technology Eases the Ride To Higher Tolls

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: Leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
There is a stretch of the Garden State Parkway that used to feel like the tollbooth capital of America. In a span of 100 miles -- from Pascack Valley, in northern New Jersey, to Barnegat, along the coast -- eight different toll plazas greeted drivers. In much of the rest of the country, you wouldn't find any tolls on a 100-mile stretch.
 I spent a good part of my childhood summers at the Jersey Shore, and the tollbooths on the parkway always seemed to be a cruel final obstacle between me and the beach. Every 15 minutes or so, our car would have to stop yet again to drop a measly quarter in a bucket.
 The ride is very different today, thanks mostly to the electronic toll system known as E-ZPass. At four of the tolls along the Garden State, the system is so sophisticated that cars barely have to slow down. A little box attached to the car's windshield sends a message to a computer reader looming over the road, and money is then deducted from an electronic account. 
 I imagine that some of the children being driven to the Jersey Shore today won't even look away from their DVD players as they glide through a toll. And I'm quite certain that very, very few of them will remember, decades from now, how much the Garden State tolls cost back when they were young. As a result of E-ZPass and its ilk, even many adults don't notice the cost of a toll.
 Which raises an interesting question: If you don't know how much you're paying for something, will you notice when the price goes up? Or has E-ZPass, for all its benefits, also made it easier for toll collectors to take your money?
 A young economist named Amy Finkelstein started thinking about these issues a few years ago when she and her fiance were driving back and forth between Boston, where they were living, and New York, where they were going to be married. So she collected decades of toll records from around the country and found a clear pattern. 
 After an electronic system is put in place, tolls start rising sharply. Take two tollbooths that charge the same fee and are in a similar setting -- both on highways leading into a big city, for instance. A decade after one of them gets electronic tolls, it will be about 30 percent more expensive on average than a similar tollbooth without it. There are no shortage of examples: the Golden Gate Bridge, the George Washington Bridge and the Tappan Zee Bridge, among them. 
 ''You may be less aware you're paying the toll,'' said Ms. Finkelstein, now an associate professor at M.I.T., ''but you're paying a higher toll than you used to.''
 The implications of this go well beyond highways. We increasingly live in an E-ZPass economy, in which bills are paid online, corporate cafeterias are going cashless and people take along their debit card, instead of cash, when they leave the house. Last year, 55 percent of consumer spending was done electronically, mainly with credit and debit cards, while checks accounted for less than 25 percent and cash only 20 percent, according to Visa. As recently as 2003, only 45 percent of spending was done electronically. 
 The E-ZPass economy is indisputably more convenient. It saves time and frustration. But the old frustrations that came with cash also brought a hidden benefit: they forced you to notice that you were spending money. With electronic money, it's much easier to be carefree.
 Marketers understand this dynamic well, which is a big reason they promote refillable gift cards and other forms of money that don't feel like money. Part of what's so intriguing about Ms. Finkelstein's work is that it suggests that government officials may be coming to understand the dynamic, too.
 The idea that hidden taxes -- and tolls are really a kind of tax -- could lead to higher taxes goes back decades. Milton Friedman famously came to regret his role in creating the withholding system for income taxes during World War II, because it eventually made people forget how much they were paying in tax. ''It never occurred to me at the time,'' he wrote in his autobiography, ''that I was helping to develop machinery that would make possible a government that I would come to criticize severely as too large, too intrusive, too destructive of freedom.''
 Even economists who don't share Mr. Friedman's political views agree with the larger point that how taxes are collected, and not just the underlying tax rate, matters. ''We need to take seriously the possibility that people are not paying attention to the tax code,'' said Raj Chetty of the University of California, Berkeley, who has been conducting some fascinating experiments on semi-hidden taxes. 
 Mr. Chetty argues that the complexity of today's tax code ends up aggravating inequality. Both rich and poor families face a dizzying spectrum of tax laws, from carried-interest rules to the earned-income tax credit. But affluent families are better able to navigate the system, often by hiring an accountant. Also, the little day-to-day taxes, like highway tolls, mean a lot more to a moderate-income family.
 Ms. Finkelstein obviously can't prove that electronic tolls cause prices to rise by making drivers less aware of them. Neil Gray, the head of government affairs at the International Bridge, Tunnel and Turnpike Association, disputes her argument and says setting tolls is more complicated than Ms. Finkelstein suggests. 
 But she makes a spirited case for her conclusion. She has considered a number of alternate explanations for the increases and says the evidence doesn't support them. At the very least, electronic systems do seem to make it easier for toll collectors to increase prices.
 There is one notable exception to the trend, though: the good old Garden State. Tolls on the parkway itself have increased only once in the last 50 years, back in 1989, when they were raised to 35 cents. (In the last few years, the price at each tollbooth has doubled, but highway officials have also removed half of the tolls, keeping the effective price unchanged.) Even after E-ZPass, the Garden State Parkway remains a relative bargain.
 Of course, Ms. Finkelstein discovered that tolls don't usually rise as soon as an electronic system arrives. The increases tend to come a number of years later, once electronic payment becomes old hat. 
 On the Garden State, the first E-ZPass system was installed in 1999. And guess what New Jersey's governor, Jon S. Corzine, has recently been talking about? Raising the tolls on the parkway for the first time in almost 20 years.

GRAPHIC: Photo:E-ZPass has reduced waits, but a study says that comes at a cost. (Photograph by Keith Meyers/ The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); CHILDREN (76%); COASTAL AREAS (72%); CD & DVD DRIVES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007



74 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Detroit's Big 3 Lost Buyers Last Month

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 3 

 BODY:
The Detroit automakers' share of the American car market fell to a record low in June, statistics showed Tuesday, foreshadowing another summer of deep discounts, cheap car loans and deals on leases.
 General Motors had its worst month in nine years as its sales of cars and light trucks fell more than 24 percent from the period a year ago. It dropped to a market share of 22.1 percent, according to an estimate by the Autodata Corporation, a firm that tracks industry statistics. 
 Sales also fell at Ford Motor and Chrysler, although not as severely as at G.M., while Japanese competitors all reported considerable increases. 
 Toyota, with sales up 6 percent, finished a full market-share point ahead of Ford's American brands to rank again as the second-biggest car company in the United States, with 16.9 percent of the market.
 Ford said its decline was because of its voluntary cuts in less-profitable sales to rental car companies. It said newer models, like the Ford Edge, a crossover vehicle, helped its sales at dealerships equal those in June last year.
 But in all, Detroit companies wound up only about 3,000 vehicles ahead of their foreign competition for June, and analysts said it could be only a matter of time before Detroit's market share fell below 50 percent.
 To keep that from happening, ''there are all the indications that we're going to see an incentives war this summer,'' said Jesse Toprak, director of industry analysis at Edmunds.com, a Web site that gives car-buying advice to consumers.
 Paul Ballew, G.M.'s chief sales analyst, acknowledged that its sales in June fell short of the company's expectations. But he said total sales for the first half of the year did meet the goals G.M. set in its turnaround plan. 
 He said G.M., which introduced no-interest financing plans after the September 2001 attacks to help give a boost to the American economy, now is pondering how it should respond to bigger discounts being offered by its rivals, chiefly Toyota.
 Sales of the big Toyota Tundra pickup truck increased in June, after Toyota began offering five-year no-interest loans and thousands of dollars in rebates on the truck, which it introduced in February.
 Toyota executives said sales were particularly strong in Texas, an important market for Detroit's pickups and the home of the Tundra factory in San Antonio. By contrast, sales of the Chevrolet Silverado, which has been only the market only since last fall, dropped 24 percent.
 ''In June we just had competitors flailing away,'' Mr. Ballew said. ''We don't think we have to match dollar for dollar, but we're not going to allow a competitor to try to steal sales away just because they want to subsidize their product.''
 Toyota officials noted that the company, on average, paid less in incentives than Detroit carmakers. They said word of mouth had helped spur sales of the pickup, and pointed out that the pickup truck market had long had some of the deepest discounts in the vehicle business.
 Mr. Toprak expects to see more- subtle discounts, like lease incentives and no-interest financing, rather than cash rebates or the ''employee pricing'' deals of two years ago that temporarily lifted Detroit sales but led to steep declines when they were discontinued.
 Detroit's automakers have been trying to get away from such discounts because it hurts their brand images, the resale value of their vehicles and their profit margins. 
 But all three companies recently announced no-interest financing and cash-back programs covering most of their models. Ford started its end-of-summer sale in June, about two months sooner than usual. 
 Toyota and Honda, which traditionally have not needed to use such incentives as liberally, both increased their discounts by hundreds of dollars per vehicle in June, according to Edmunds.com.
 James Lentz, executive vice president of Toyota Motor Sales, said the discounts did not indicate a new strategy for the company. He said such deals could help win over shoppers who might otherwise not be able to afford a new vehicle because the value of their trade-in was less than the amount remaining on their loan.
 ''The customer expects and sometimes needs incentives to help them out of a negative-equity situation,'' Mr. Lentz said. ''Our incentive actions are really being driven by the segment. We still will use incentives tactically only when necessary.''
 Toyota has said it always planned to offer incentives on the Tundra -- with a base version that costs several thousand dollars more than many competing models -- because truck buyers expect them. Detroit companies, unaccustomed to a major foreign rival in one of the last markets they dominate, expressed surprise at Toyota's tactic.
 ''We didn't anticipate that Toyota would go 0-for-60 on a brand new truck and that has thrown a bit of a curveball,'' Mr. Ballew said. ''They certainly have behaved in a way beyond anything I can rationalize.''
 The Tundra was only one of G.M.'s problems in June. Sales of its midsize sport utility vehicles were down 53 percent in June and its small-car sales also fell 36 percent from June 2006.
 Chrysler Pact in China
 The Chrysler Group, which is being bought by Cerberus Capital Management, has agreed to develop small and subcompact cars with Chery Automobile of China for sale in North America, Europe and other markets as soon as next year.
 The companies will modify existing Chery vehicles to be sold under Chrysler brands and co-develop future models, the two automakers said in a statement in Beijing. Chrysler's chief executive, Thomas LaSorda, and Chery's president, Yin Tongyao, will sign the deal today.

GRAPHIC: Charts: (Source: Ward's AutoInfoBank)(pg. C2) Charts show rates of auto sales. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); MARKET SHARE (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SALES REBATES (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (53%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007



75 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: At Home in Berlin

BYLINE: By ANDREAS TZORTZIS

 BODY:
It takes very little time for the flood of memories to overcome Marianne Brown as she walks the streets of West Berlin, where she grew up. They range from the childhood games of marbles she played to the sled races at the edge of the Grunewald forest to the night she first met her husband, a Pan Am pilot, near the Tempelhof airport in 1965.
 ''You don't know how many memories I have of this place,'' she said. 
 Perhaps more than the recollections, though, it was Berlin's reputation as a good real estate buy that prompted Mrs. Brown and her husband, Kevin, to invest in the city that brought them together more than 40 years ago. 
 In May, the couple, who have a primary home in San Francisco and a 1,200-square-foot apartment at the edge of Central Park in New York, moved into a 65-square-meter, or 700-square-foot, apartment on a leafy street in the neighborhood of Charlottenburg.
 ''Berlin was a good investment compared to London, Moscow or Paris,'' Mr. Brown said. ''It just made sense.''
 While average sale prices in capitals like Moscow and London range from 3,000 euros to 6,000 euros, or $4,000 to $8,125, per square meter, Berlin hovers around 1,500 euros per square meter. And, unlike in other European cities, Berlin's prices have increased only slightly in recent years, said Manfred Binsfeld of Feri Consulting, an economic research and forecasting group based in the city.
 ''The market will surely be dynamic in the coming years because Berlin remains an attractive place internationally,'' Mr. Binsfeld said. ''But it will still take years before Berlin develops a healthy and dynamic economic structure.'' In the meantime, Berlin's market continues to be attractive, particularly for buyers from Ireland, Britain and the United States, with many treating the properties as investments rather than second homes, real estate analysts say.
 But not the Browns. Distance is practically no problem for the couple, as Mr. Brown, who is now retired, spent more than 30 years as a pilot, first for Pan Am and then for Delta, guaranteeing him good deals on tickets. And the couple's ease with international travel has led them to fly to Paris or London for dinner or make quick jaunts to India and Kenya. ''Who cares if it's a long flight?'' Mrs. Brown said. ''You only live once.''
 Although Mrs. Brown had long dreamed of a return to her hometown, she was wary of pressuring her husband. ''I didn't really think Kevin would be interested, because it's a long way, and I didn't know it was so reasonable,'' she said. ''In the end, it was he who said, 'Let's go.' ''
 They began by searching the Internet for available apartments, and made several appointments to look at places, none of which worked out. During one of their four trips to the German capital in recent months, they wandered into the office of Engel & Volkers, a luxury real estate agency, where a broker, Ralf Cremer, showed them the apartment.
 ''We had fantastic views in our homes in San Francisco and the apartment in New York, so we were looking for that,'' Mr. Brown said. Instead, they fell in love with the one-bedroom apartment, which has a balcony big enough for a table and chairs and a view of the tree-lined street of late 19th century Grunderzeit apartment buildings, although it really does not rival the scenes outside their other homes' windows.
 Their new address puts them close to Kufurstendamm, the main shopping mile in the western part of the city, and as attractive an area for foreigners as east Berlin's blossoming Mitte district. ''It's the only alternative to Mitte, which is similar to Kufurstendamm, with its restaurants and bars,'' he said.
 The prospect of looking around in Mitte, where large, tastefully renovated turn-of-the-20th-century apartments were fetching reasonable prices, did not even occur to her. ''I wouldn't even think of going there,'' she said. ''It's a completely different city.''
 ''For us,'' Mr. Brown added, ''this is the center of Berlin.''
 After looking at the apartment for a second time in February, they decided to buy and paid 180,000 euros (more than $240,000). Taxes and fees represented about 13 percent of that cost.
 The apartment's previous owner had made extensive renovations to maintain the classic, Grunderzeit interior of the place, and the Browns, who had invested time and sweat in fixer-uppers in both San Francisco and New York, were happy to just move in.
 So far they have bought a bed, which arrived in May, just a few days before they did; a red couch; and some pieces of African art from a store that was going out of business. 
 On a recent visit, Ms. Brown moved about the kitchen preparing coffee and cakes, and reveling in their new life on the streets where she grew up. ''What do we intend to do in Berlin?'' she said. ''Whatever we feel like. Go to restaurants in the neighborhood, stroll our new leafy neighborhood and stop in the many sidewalk restaurants -- and eat all the things that I can't get in the States.''
 The couple plan to come over every six weeks and stay for a week or so. Their dog and garden in San Francisco are the only hindrances to longer stays. ''Our house in San Francisco is my home,'' she said. ''But this is my city.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (73%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (98%); PARIS, FRANCE (87%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (98%); FRANCE (87%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KENYA (79%); INDIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007



76 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Takeover News Gives Shares a Mild Lift

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street advanced yesterday in a preholiday session as investors drew confidence from a smaller-than-expected dip in factory orders and new merger-and-acquisition activity.
 The market was relieved to hear from the Commerce Department that demand at United States factories dipped just 0.5 percent in May; most analysts had predicted a decline of more than 1 percent.
 Takeover news gave the market an extra lift. Kraft Foods said it had offered $7.2 billion to buy the cookie division of the French food company Groupe Danone. Kraft fell 87 cents, to $34.66, while Danone rose 1.2 percent in Paris trading. 
 Also, the Canadian mining company Teck Cominco bid 4.1 billion Canadian dollars ($3.87 billion) for a Canadian copper mining company, Aur Resources, and a major shareholder of Wendy's International said he was considering buying the company.
 Most analysts are not taking this week's movements too seriously, however, given that trading volumes are low. The stock market closed early, at 1 p.m.
 ''Historically, the two days leading up to the July Fourth holiday have been positive for the equity markets,'' said Michael Sheldon, chief market strategist at Spencer Clarke. Investors should not breathe a sigh of relief just yet; the few days after the Fourth of July are often negative, he said, and the market's recent choppiness is expected to continue after that.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 41.87 points, or 0.3 percent, to 13,577.30, adding to Monday's 126.81-point gain. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 5.44 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,524.87, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 12.65 points, or 0.5 percent, to 2,644.95. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 3.14, or 0.37 percent, to 848.20.
 Bonds fell after the better-than-expected data on factory orders. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 5.04 percent, from 4.99 percent late Monday. The price fell 12/32, to 95 27/32.
 Home builders declined after the National Association of Realtors reported its index for pending sales of existing homes declined in May for the third consecutive month.
 Wendy's rose $1, or 2.7 percent, to close at $38.39. The billionaire investor Nelson Peltz said in a letter to the Wendy's chairman that one of his companies, Triarc, which owns the fast-food chain Arby's, would be a ''natural, strategic buyer'' for Wendy's but that Wendy's was hindering him.
 Financial companies helped lead stocks higher. Merrill Lynch rose more than 1 percent, and Goldman Sachs climbed 2.5 percent.
 Airline stocks also gained yesterday, after Continental Airlines reported stronger-than-expected growth in June unit revenue. Continental climbed 11.1 percent; American Airlines' parent, the AMR Corporation, rose 4.8 percent; and the US Airways Group was up 7 percent.
 Caterpillar, one of the 30 Dow components, declined after it was downgraded by a UBS analyst. Caterpillar fell $2.46, or 3.1 percent, to $77.99.
 A barrel of light crude rose 32 cents, to settle at $71.41 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Though the average United States retail price of a gallon of gasoline has fallen below $3, crude futures have been trading at 10-month highs.
 Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by about five to three on the New York Stock Exchange, where consolidated volume came to 1.52 billion shares -- down from 2.50 billion shares Monday, a full day of trading.

GRAPHIC: Charts: ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 ''The Favorites'' Stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MERGERS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); BONDS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); METAL ORE MINING (74%); MINES & MINING (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); COPPER MINING (69%); AIRLINES (60%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (60%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (57%)

COMPANY: DANONE SA (FRANCE) (84%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (80%); CANADIAN MINING CO INC (70%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (59%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); TECK RESOURCES LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

TICKER: DNN (BIT) (84%); BN (PAR) (84%); UAL (NYSE) (80%); GS (NYSE) (58%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (57%); TCK.A (TSX) (56%); TCK (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (80%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (80%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (80%); NAICS212399 ALL OTHER NONMETALLIC MINERAL MINING (70%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (70%); SIC1499 MISC. NONMETALLIC MINERALS EX. FUELS (70%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (70%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (59%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (59%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (59%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS212231 LEAD ORE & ZINC ORE MINING (56%); SIC1031 LEAD & ZINC ORES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (57%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007



77 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: The Debate Over Subsidizing Snacks

BYLINE: By MARIAN BURROS

 BODY:
EVERY five years the farm bill comes up for renewal and, usually, the only people paying attention are the farmers, their lobbyists and a few outraged groups who think subsidies are a big waste of taxpayers' money. 
 This year is different.
 Increasingly, people are blaming the farm bill, and the longstanding agriculture policy it embodies, for some of the problems afflicting the country: the growth in obesity, the increase in food poisonings, and the disappearance of the family farm. Payments for farmers were started in the 1930s during the Depression to help save family farms; now the program costs billions and benefits about one-third of the nation's farmers. 
 Changes in the farm bill are being supported by the Bush administration and an unusual alliance that includes the American Heart Association, Environmental Defense, Taxpayers for Common Sense and GMA/FPA, a food industry association. They agree that some subsidies should be cut and money spent instead to help fruit and vegetable growers, protect farmland, support small farmers and promote healthier eating.
 For the first time, lobbyists for farm subsidies are facing off in the halls of Congress against hundreds of activists. 
 There is still formidable opposition to the proposed changes, particularly among representatives in the 19 districts that received half the crop subsidies in 2005, according to Ken Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group, a nonprofit group which has just released details of who receives what payments, drawn from Agriculture Department computer files. But many experts think this new alliance, which spans the political spectrum, could bring about significant changes in the bill. 
 ''I am more optimistic this year that we can see significant reform for farm policy because of a coalition of diverse interests,'' said Cal Dooley, president of GMA/FPA. Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, said: ''This is not just a farm bill. It's a food bill, and Americans who eat want a stake in it.'' 
 The 2002 farm bill provided $143.3 billion for nutrition programs like Food Stamps, $16.8 billion for conservation and $67.6 billion to subsidize the planting of certain crops. Almost all of the subsidies usually go to growers of five commodities: soybeans, corn, rice, wheat and cotton. Fruit and vegetable farmers do not get subsidies. 
 Supporters say the subsidies have kept food affordable for Americans. Critics disagree and say the subsidies lead to cheap snack foods and soft drinks, made from ingredients like high fructose corn syrup and partially hydrogenated soybean oil. Meanwhile, the lack of subsidies for fruits and vegetables makes them expensive by comparison. 
 Between 1985 and 2000 the cost of fresh fruits and vegetables increased nearly 40 percent while the price of soft drinks decreased by almost 25 percent, adjusted for inflation, according to a study done by the Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy, a group in Minneapolis set up to help save family farms and rural communities. 
 Health professionals say calories from those subsidized foods are partly responsible for the epidemic of childhood obesity and the increased incidence of diabetes. 
 Some of the bills before Congress are aimed at helping growers of fruits and vegetables and adding to the supply of local food. 
 One goal is helping to pay for new processing plants and slaughterhouses so that small farms could more easily market their products in their regions rather than sending them long distances. Many regional plants went out of business when the food industry became more concentrated. 
 Another is setting up more farmers' markets and helping farmers sell to nearby schools, hospitals and other institutions, and helping low-income older people buy from small farmers.
 Other ideas include giving grants, loans and technical assistance to beginning, immigrant and minority farmers to start new farms or to keep small struggling farms in business, and providing money for farmers who want to convert to organic methods. 
 Spending money on researching the cultivation of fruits and vegetables would help farmers find more efficient ways to irrigate and fertilize crops and deal with pests while cutting back on pesticides. Greenhouses would also be built to extend growing seasons. 
 Food Stamp benefits would be increased so that a family of three would receive $317 a month, up by $10. 
 Some bills would expand farm and ranchland preservation programs, restore and protect more wetlands, grasslands and watersheds, and improve water quality by cutting back on pesticides and preventing nutrients and pesticides from washing off farms and into streams and lakes.
 Others include money for research and incentives for renewable energy on farms and ranches for wind power, biofuels from crops other than corn and for equipment to capture the methane from manure and turn it into an energy source. 
 The House requires that any new program be paid for either by cutting an existing program or specifying a new source of revenue, both difficult prospects. 
 On Friday, Representative Collin Peterson, Democrat of Minnesota and chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, is expected to announce two bills: the first will propose marginal cuts in subsidies and call for a number of proposals, including some money for fruits and vegetables, organic farming, farmers' market promotions, novice farmers, and additional energy and conservation programs. It would retain current levels of funding for nutrition programs. But supporters of those programs say the bill does not provide enough funding for them.
 The second bill will propose programs for which no money has been allocated, including some additional funds for nutrition programs and conservation money to reward farmers who are already using what are considered the best environmental practices.
 The House leadership has already indicated it doesn't want a floor fight and may try to force both sides to compromise on the depth of cuts in subsidies and on the level of new spending.
 Whatever the House passes has to be reconciled with the Senate bill. Senator Harkin wants to cut some subsidies. The most likely cuts are what are called ''fixed direct payments,'' $5.2 billion per year paid to farmers even if they grow nothing, based on what they had raised in the past. 
 ''You don't have to sit on a tractor seat, visit the tractor seat, you don't even have to be alive to get a fixed payment,'' said Mr. Cook of the Environmental Working Group. ''We have fixed payments to dead people all over the place. It's ridiculous.''
 Tom Buis, president of the National Farmers Union, the second largest organization for farmers in the country, said, ''It is hard to defend direct payments.'' But he added, ''You can write a safety net that protects farmers and ranchers when times are tough.'' 
 The Bush administration, as well as many alliance members, wants to eliminate subsidy payments for farmers who have an adjusted gross income of more than $200,000 a year. And some in Congress want to limit subsidies entirely. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has supported limits on subsidies in the past and some Congressional bills would prohibit any farmer from getting more than $200,000 a year in subsidies. 
 According to the subsidy data from the Environmental Working Group, one giant cotton farm collected $2.95 million through crop subsidies in 2005, nearly as much money as the federal government spent on its primary research program for organic agriculture last year -- $3 million.
 Mary Kay Thatcher, a policy specialist with the American Farm Bureau Federation, the largest farm lobbying group, saidcurrent subsidies, which the federation supports, might be tweaked, but added, ''I think it is highly unlikely that we will see huge changes.'' 
 That may depend on whether the new activists can counteract the power of lobbyists who make large campaign contributions. 
 ''Congress and the administration have a unique opportunity to begin reforms providing a sustainable, community-linked food system,'' said Gus Schumacher, a consultant to the Kellogg Foundation for its food and society initiative and a former under secretary of agriculture. ''Will they take this opportunity to start or will it be business as usual?''

GRAPHIC: Photos: SHIFTING ATTITUDES: Is a cornfield, like this one in Illinois, a symbol of the nation's abundance or its problem with obesity? Farm subsidies are an issue being considered in Washington now. (Photograph by Tim Boyle/Getty Images)(pg. F1)
WHO GETS WHAT?: Subsidies go to farms that grow corn, piled high in Minnesota, above, while growers of fruit, like California cherries, left, get none. (Photographs by Above, Jim Mone/Associated Press
 below, Reed Saxon/Associated Press) (pg. F2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); FAMILY FARMS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (73%); SNACK FOODS (72%); OILS & FATS (72%); OBESITY (71%); NUTRITION (71%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); SOFT DRINKS (63%); BEVERAGE PRICES (60%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (56%)

PERSON: TOM HARKIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (71%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007



78 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: A Statue As Symbol In Patrimony Tug of War

BYLINE: By ELISABETTA POVOLEDO

DATELINE: AIDONE, Sicily 

 BODY:
The star attraction of the archaeological museum in this sleepy backwater in central Sicily actually isn't here.
 Instead, this ancient treasure, a giant statue from the fifth century B.C. usually identified as the goddess Aphrodite, holds court thousands of miles away, at the J. Paul Getty Museum's antiquities villa in California. 
 In the Aidone Archaeological Museum, which houses artifacts from a nearby dig at an ancient Greek settlement called Morgantina, visitors settle for a large poster at the entrance depicting the statue and announcing a national campaign to bring it back.
 ''This is her rightful place,'' said Nicola Leanza, the culture minister for Sicily, who, like many others, argues that the goddess was illegally excavated from Morgantina. 
 The Getty, which bought the statue in 1988 for $18 million, isn't so sure. 
 For nearly two decades it fended off the Italian government's sporadic claims to the sculpture. But as the demands grew more pressing, the Getty acknowledged that there might be ''problems'' attached to the acquisition. In November it announced that it would study the object and reach a decision on whether to hand it over within a year. 
 ''We are on target to achieve that objective,'' Ron Hartwig, a Getty spokesman, said in an e-mail message. (The museum has already offered to transfer title to the statue.)
 Yet the people of Aidone are tired of waiting. For this town the statue has become a blazing symbol of Italy's legal and moral battle against foreign museums and private collectors that bought archaeological artifacts with hazy backgrounds, plundering the nation of its heritage.
 For decades the Sicilian countryside has been a prime target for tomb robbers and a network of compliant traders. 
 ''Morgantina was sacked for too long,'' said Giovanni Calafiore, president of the Aidone chapter of an amateur archaeology association, who organized a bring-back-the-Aphrodite protest march in December. ''Now we're fighting to get back what's rightfully ours.''
 Beatrice Basile, the art superintendent for the province of Enna, which includes Morgantina, said the campaign to win back the statue had had a profound psychological impact on the townspeople. 
 ''It's given an identity to the people in Aidone, who feel very strongly that this is a restitution that in some way would compensate for a collective loss to their society,'' she said. 
 Even though the statue is still in the Getty Museum's villa in Pacific Palisades, Calif., this newfound self-awareness has already had a practical effect. Sicilians here are now far more willing to patrol the countryside to crack down on clandestine digs and to help investigators in individual cases, Ms. Basile said. 
 ''This is the miracle of the Aphrodite,'' she added.
 The statue, 7 1/2 feet tall with a limestone torso and marble head and limbs, is also among the contested pieces cited in the case against Marion True, the Getty's former curator of antiquities, who is being tried in Rome on charges of trafficking in looted art. She denies any wrongdoing.
 The museum is also negotiating with Italian officials over 51 other artifacts in its collection. 
 The Getty bought the Aphrodite from a London dealer, Robin Symes. A handwritten bill of sale dated March 18, 1986, indicates that Mr. Symes bought a fifth-century B.C. ''acrolith statue of a draped woman'' from Renzo Canavesi, then a currency-exchange operator in Chiasso, Switzerland. 
 A postscript in the bill of sale said the statue had belonged to Mr. Canavesi's family since 1939, the year that a law was passed in Italy making it illegal to export any archaeological artifact from the country without government permission. 
 In 2001 Mr. Canavesi was tried in Italy on charges of illegal trafficking involving the Aphrodite. But on appeal his conviction was thrown out because the statute of limitations had expired, according to Italian documents. In August 1987, before buying the artifact, the Getty contacted the Italian culture ministry through a lawyer seeking information on the authenticity and provenance of a statue of Aphrodite. The museum later said the ministry told the lawyer that Italy had no information about the statue.
 In July 1988 Ms. True officially informed the culture ministry that the Getty board had approved the acquisition. She invited the Italians to contact the museum with ''any information on the recent history of this object that you believe might be important to us.''
 Italian investigators had already redoubled their efforts to track down the statue's origins. 
 Fausto Guarnieri, chief investigator of the Italian special art-theft squad in the 1980s, said in an interview that in the fall of 1987 some disgruntled tomb robbers led him to a spot in Morgantina and told him that the statue's marble head had been found there. 
 ''At the time there was a rumor that the statue had been shipped to Nice with a cargo of cereal, and then smuggled into Switzerland,'' Mr. Guarnieri recalled. 
 Rumors also flew that the statue had been offered to several Sicilian antiquities traders before it left Italy. A 1988 article in Connoisseur magazine identified Orazio Di Simone, a Sicilian antiquities dealer living in Switzerland, as the suspected smuggler. 
 Francesco Tagliaferri, a lawyer defending Mr. Di Simone in an unrelated looted-antiquities case that began in Rome in May, said his client denied involvement with the statue. ''That's a fairy tale, just rumors,'' he said. 
 Around 1988, Mr. Guarnieri said, the Italian authorities questioned two Sicilian brothers, Mr. Di Simone and a Sicilian who was believed to traffic in looted art, accusing them of looting and exporting the statue. But the case never went to trial for lack of evidence.
 Mr. Symes has never been charged in Italy for his role in the sale of the statue.
 Aidone citizens hope scientific studies will help fill in the gaps that court evidence has not, and then convince the Getty that the artifact was looted in Sicily. A decade ago Rosario Alaimo, a geochemistry professor at the University of Palermo, was asked to compare samples of the limestone of the Getty statue with samples taken from a statue 200 years younger in the Aidone museum that had been excavated in Morgantina.
 ''We concluded that both statues were made of material that came from the same geological formation,'' quarried in southeastern Sicily, near Ragusa, said Professor Alaimo, who presented his findings at a Getty workshop on the Aphrodite in May. Both statues are Sicilian, he said in a telephone interview. ''That is the most probable hypothesis.''
 Malcolm Bell III, a University of Virginia professor who directs excavations at Morgantina, said he neither embraced nor rejected the idea that the Aphrodite came from that site. 
 ''I've talked to people who ought to know, and they've never said anything about finding the statue,'' he said in an interview in Aidone. ''What I can say is that it was made by an extremely talented sculptor, and if we knew where it had been found, we'd know a lot about the artistic expression of the fifth century B.C.''
 In the meantime, archaeologists continue their painstaking dig at Morgantina, slowly bringing to light a Greek city that fell to the Romans in 211 B.C. This spring work progressed on a bath complex at the site from the third century B.C. 
 Sandra K. Lucore, who is overseeing the baths excavation, describes Morgantina as a snapshot of an experimental period in Sicilian history ''when technology and ideas came together to spawn some very innovative solutions,'' she said. 
 ''You get the sense here that they were really thinking on their feet, using materials in a new way,'' she said in an interview at the site. ''The baths are an excellent example of this organic development.''
 These days Morgantina is relatively well guarded. Custodians sleep there at night, and two years ago a new metal fence was built around the site's perimeter. 
 In Aidone, meanwhile, the museum, which reopened in March after a three-year restoration, is a focus of civic pride. When a national news broadcast erroneously reported in April that the Aphrodite's return was imminent, hundreds of residents marched boisterously to the museum's doors.
 ''We really weren't used to that,'' Maria Locanda, a custodian there, said.
 Local pride was also boosted by an accord brokered last year by the Italian government with the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Under the pact, the Met also transferred title to a set of 16 silver pieces from the third century B.C. that Italy said were illegally excavated from Morgantina. 
 The pieces will remain at the Met until January 2010, then travel to the Aidone museum. Dr. Basile said the silver would be exhibited in a showcase designed especially for it. 
 And there is more than enough room for the larger-than-life-size Aphrodite, she added hopefully.
 Sicilian officials argue that a return of the Aphrodite could be a boon to the region's economy. While the area's culinary traditions, sandy shores and crystalline waters have long lured international tourists, they say, important cultural attractions also boost visitor numbers.
 ''Our model for growth is the management and development of our cultural past, and we're focusing on Sicily as a whole,'' Mr. Leanza, the Sicilian culture minister, said. 
 He cited the Roman villa of Casale in Piazza Armerina, about 10 miles from Aidone, which he said draws 700,000 people each year.
 ''The Aphrodite will bring wealth to the territory,'' he said. ''She is a source of well-being we have to exploit. This is our real wealth.''
 ''The idea is that the entire island is a museum,'' he said. ''Few museums in the world can match that potential.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: The disputed statue.(pg. E1)
 Malcolm Bell III and Sandra K. Lucore amid the ruined vaults of the baths at Morgantina, in Sicily. (Photograph by Sandro Scalia for The New York Times)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); ARCHAEOLOGY (91%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CLASSICS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CITY LIFE (64%); CITIES (64%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) ITALY (91%); UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007



79 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: SuperSonics'Free-Agent Star Destined for Orlando

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS

 BODY:
The N.B.A.'s power and drama emanated from the West last season and continued pulsing through last week's draft, but the first free-agent agreement of the summer served notice that the Eastern Conference might be a player yet.
 Rashard Lewis, a Seattle SuperSonics forward for nine seasons, agreed in principle yesterday to a maximum, five-year deal with the Orlando Magic that could be worth more than $80 million. 
 Lewis's agent, Tony Dutt, confirmed the agreement, which came five days after Seattle drafted the former Texas forward Kevin Durant with the second overall pick.
 Teams cannot comment until the official free-agent signing period, which begins July 11.
 The prospect of playing with Dwight Howard, Orlando's 21-year-old All-Star forward, enticed the 6-foot-10 Lewis. And the Magic's new coach, Stan Van Gundy, connected with Lewis during an aggressive recruiting pitch, Dutt said. 
 ''He felt very good about this,'' Dutt said. ''I think he really wanted to play with a big man. With Howard being as young as he is, the opportunity here is so great.'' 
 Lewis gives the Magic the multidimensional scorer it coveted to complement Howard's fearsome offensive presence around the basket. The Sonics' second-round pick in 1998, Lewis became an All-Star in 2005 and has averaged 20.9 points over the past three seasons. His ability to slash to the basket and his nimble post-up game fit into the up-tempo style Eastern Conference teams are beginning to adopt. 
 The only way the Magic could afford to sign Lewis outright was by freeing salary-cap space, and Orlando took steps to do so yesterday by announcing it had withdrawn its qualifying offer to the 7-foot Darko Milicic, the former No. 2 pick in the 2003 draft. 
 Milicic then became an unrestricted free agent and Orlando lost its rights to match any offer from another team. The Sonics and the Magic were still working on potential sign-and-trade deals. Seattle could receive compensation for losing Lewis and Orlando could potentially free cap space to sign Milicic. 
 Dutt spent Monday in whirlwind negotiations with Orlando, which is where Lewis felt most comfortable, he said. ''At the end of the day, he felt that as much as he always enjoyed Seattle, the change would be good for him,'' Dutt said.
 By drafting Durant and trading for the selection of another forward, Georgetown's Jeff Green, the Sonics were signaling their move toward youth, if not a more economical payroll. Their draft-night trade sending the veteran shooting guard Ray Allen to Boston further solidified this direction. 
 Orlando, too, made its intentions known. As the Magic veteran free agent Grant Hill looked to sign with a championship-caliber team -- one that is probably out west -- the franchise sought to distance itself further from an era clouded by Hill's persistent injuries and huge contract. 
 The Knicks were one of about 20 teams interested in Lewis, which Dutt acknowledged. But unlike the Magic, the Knicks have no chance of getting under the salary cap anytime soon. That meant that Isiah Thomas would have had to initiate a sign-and-trade with Seattle, potentially involving other teams. 
 Going to the Magic, Dutt said, ''was a little bit easier of a decision, as hard as it was.'' He said the Magic had the ''the ability to commit'' and ''do a straight sign'' without many complicated moves. 
 As Allen, a seven-time All-Star, joined the Celtics, the Knicks received power forward Zach Randolph in a trade. The Golden State Warriors traded the explosive shooting guard Jason Richardson to the Charlotte Bobcats for their No. 8 pick, Brandan Wright. 
 While Lewis's departure to the East was imminent, the Pistons were still negotiating to retain the free-agent point guard Chauncey Billups. 
 ''At this point, we have not reached an agreement,'' said Billups's agent, Andy Miller, referring to a published report that Billups had re-signed. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rashard Lewis, who averaged 22.4 points for Seattle last season, agreed to a five-year contract. (Photograph by Ron Wurzer/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); SEATTLE SUPERSONICS (91%); ORLANDO MAGIC (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (95%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007



80 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Temporary Seneca Casino Opens in Downtown Buffalo

BYLINE: By DAVID STABA and KEN BELSON

DATELINE: BUFFALO, July 3 

 BODY:
A day after receiving federal approval, the Seneca Indian Nation opened a temporary 5,000-square-foot casino on Tuesday with 124 slot machines in downtown Buffalo.
 The long-delayed move, which has been opposed by many business and political leaders here, sets the stage for a legal showdown over whether the tribe's sovereignty gives it the right to run a casino on its nonreservation land here.
 Since its conception in 2002, the Seneca's plan for a casino on a nine-acre plot here has been a lightning rod for those who contend that a gambling operation downtown, despite the city's sagging economy, will stifle other kinds of development and inflict further harm. 
 Supporters, on the other hand, say the $125 million casino with a 100,000-square-foot gambling floor and restaurants will add hundreds of jobs and attract out-of-state gamblers to a beleaguered part of the city and complement other development plans.
 The Seneca tribe already runs two casinos, one in Niagara Falls and another on its reservation south of Buffalo. The third casino, which is essentially a marker until the grander plan is realized, means that the Senecas have met the December 2007 deadline set in an agreement with New York State that lets the tribe run three gambling operations.
 In January, a federal judge ordered the National Indian Gaming Commission to reconsider its initial decision on the 2002 agreement. The agency confirmed its approval in a letter to the Seneca Gaming Corporation on Monday.
 ''It's a great day for the Seneca nation, it's a great day for the Seneca Gaming Corporation and it's a great day for the City of Buffalo,'' said a spokesman for the corporation, Philip J. Pantano. Opponents plan to return to federal court to challenge the tribe's right to open the casino. They say that in giving its approval on Monday the federal commission misinterpreted a 1990 law that settled a long-running land dispute with the Seneca in upstate New York. One author of the law, the Seneca Settlement Act, said it was never intended to give the tribe the right to run casinos.
 ''I think the National Indian Gaming Commission is dominated by pro-gambling interests,'' said John J. LaFalce, a former Democratic congressman who helped write the law. ''But it escapes the essential issue of whether the Seneca Settlement Act contemplated Indian gaming, which it did not. That's an issue that has to be decided by the courts.''
 Indeed, a broad coalition of Buffalo's political, business and cultural leaders plan to go to federal court next week to challenge the Seneca's right to run a casino on its property in Buffalo.
 ''We are now poised to go to court without procedural impediments to discuss land status issues, whether it's sovereign territory and whether it is Indian land,'' said Joseph M. Finnerty, the lawyer who is coordinating the state and federal lawsuits opposing the casino. ''We feel just as confident today that we are right on those issues and will win on these issues.''
 ''I'd say to the patrons at the temporary casino, 'Don't get too comfortable,' '' Mr. Finnerty said.
 By Tuesday evening, the parking lot on the site was full. Inside the small, blue metal building bearing the word ''Casino'' in simple white lettering, the smell of cigarette smoke hung in the warm, muggy air of the single public room.
 One concession stand offered hot dogs, cold sandwiches and baked goods, but no alcohol was being served. Still, every machine was in play, with short lines at a few.
 ''It's ridiculous,'' said Loretta Tozzo of Buffalo, who spent about an hour at the slots. ''You can't breathe in there. They should have waited to open something better.''
 As she left, Mrs. Tozzo said she and her husband, Louis, were headed to Niagara Falls, about 20 miles away, to the Seneca-run casino there.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (92%); CASINOS (91%); APPROVALS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); JUDGES (65%); WRITERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007



81 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela to Sell Gas to Iran, Which Has a Plan for Rationing

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

DATELINE: TEHRAN, July 3 

 BODY:
Venezuela agreed to sell Iran gasoline on Tuesday, less than a week after Iran unveiled a rationing program to limit its dependence on gasoline imports. 
 ''The Iranian government has asked to buy gasoline from us, and we have accepted the request,'' Rafael Ramirez, Venezuela's energy minister, told the newspaper Shargh. He declined to specify the quantity of gasoline Venezuela would sell to Iran or at what price. 
 Iran, a major oil exporter, imports 40 percent of its gasoline because of high consumption and limited refining capacity. While gasoline costs about $2 a gallon on world markets, the government sells it for 34 cents, a subsidy that costs it about $5 billion a year. 
 Iran imports gasoline from 16 countries, including India, the Netherlands, France and the United Arab Emirates. 
 Energy analysts say Tehran began rationing gasoline last week primarily in an effort to cut gasoline consumption in anticipation of possible sanctions over its nuclear program. The United States Congress is considering a bill that would impose sanctions on any company selling gasoline to Iran, and the United Nations Security Council will meet in September to discuss tougher sanctions against Tehran.
 ''It is not clear whether it would be economical for Iran to import gasoline from Venezuela because of the long distance,'' said Saeed Leylaz, an economist and political analyst in Tehran. ''But it can certainly be very important if other countries refuse to sell us gasoline because of international pressure,'' he added.
 President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez, who visited Tehran this week, are allied in their antipathy toward the United States. During Mr. Chavez's visit, the countries signed a series of economic deals, including an agreement to build a dairy factory in Venezuela and a petrochemical plant on the Persian Gulf. 
 The rationing plan, meanwhile, spurred demonstrations in Iran, as angry drivers set fire to more than a dozen gas stations last week and chanted slogans denouncing Mr. Ahmadinejad. 
 The Iranian president defended the policy on Monday, calling it an ''economic revolution.''
 ''Stop this childish game and try not to make this victory bitter for people,'' he told his opponents in a speech in Tehran, Shargh reported. ''The Americans have also admitted that if Iran can control its energy consumption, it will become invincible.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GASOLINE (91%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); PETROCHEMICALS (73%); POLITICS (70%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); LEGISLATION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (59%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (91%); NETHERLANDS (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); FRANCE (77%); GULF STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007



82 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Toyota Hybrid Makes a Statement, and That Sells

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Nick Bunkley and Mary M. Chapman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A riddle: Why has the Toyota Prius enjoyed such success, with sales of more than 400,000 in the United States, when most other hybrid models struggle to find buyers?
 One answer may be that buyers of the Prius want everyone to know they are driving a hybrid. 
 The Prius, after all, was built from the ground up as a hybrid, and is sold only as a hybrid. By contrast, the main way to tell that a Honda Civic, Ford Escape or Saturn Vue is a hybrid version is a small badge on the trunk or side panel. 
 The Prius has become, in a sense, the four-wheel equivalent of those popular rubber ''issue bracelets'' in yellow and other colors -- it shows the world that its owner cares.
 In fact, more than half of the Prius buyers surveyed this spring by CNW Marketing Research of Bandon, Ore., said the main reason they purchased their car was that ''it makes a statement about me.'' 
 Only a third of Prius owners cited that reason just three years ago, according to CNW, which tracks consumer buying trends. 
 ''I really want people to know that I care about the environment,'' said Joy Feasley of Philadelphia, owner of a green 2006 Prius. ''I like that people stop and ask me how I like my car.''
 Mary Gatch of Charleston, S.C., chose the car over a hybrid version of the Toyota Camry after trading in a Lexus sedan. 
 ''I felt like the Camry Hybrid was too subtle for the message I wanted to put out there,'' Ms. Gatch said. ''I wanted to have the biggest impact that I could, and the Prius puts out a clearer message.'' 
 Unlike the original Prius buyers, who wanted to be first with its innovative technology, the latest owners are far more conscious of foreign oil dependence and global warming, said Doug Coleman, Toyota's product manager for Prius. 
 ''Consumer knowledge and consumer awareness is changing,'' Mr. Coleman said.
 Prius sales for the first six months of the year are up 93.7 percent from last year, to 94,503, and Toyota has already sold close to as many Prius cars as it did in all of 2006.
 To be sure, many owners are still choosing the Prius for the fuel economy that a hybrid offers -- rated at 60 miles a gallon in city driving and 51 on the highway (although those numbers are estimated at 48 miles a gallon for city driving and 45 on the highway for 2008 models under more realistic government-imposed standards). But many are looking for something extra. 
 ''The Prius allowed you to make a green statement with a car for the first time ever,'' said Dan Becker, head of the global warming program at the Sierra Club (and yes, a Prius owner). 
 Not everyone is a fan of the statement. Some postings on Internet car discussion groups occasionally make dismissive references to ''Pious Prius owners.''
 Prius was first embraced by Hollywood stars and other celebrities and remains in vogue long after most cars have lost their buzz. Owners have included Cameron Diaz, Leonardo DiCaprio, Billy Joel, Bill Maher and Larry David. Mr. David has bought three, including one for his character to drive on his HBO series, ''Curb Your Enthusiasm.''
 Now Prius drivers are typically found in cities on the East and West Coasts, and in college towns like Ann Arbor, Mich., and State College, Pa. 
 ''You can't drive across town without seeing half a dozen of them,'' said Peter A. Darnell, a software engineer and Prius owner in Westford, Mass., north of Boston. 
 Mr. Darnell admits to feeling smug this year when gasoline prices spiked above $3 a gallon. But that was not the main reason he bought his car. ''I have to admit that I'm a granola-crunching liberal, and I really liked the idea of minimizing the impact on the environment,'' Mr. Darnell said. 
 Corey Confer, general sales manager at Joel Confer Toyota in State College, said he had received calls from as far away as Key West, Fla., from buyers looking for a Prius. 
 His dealership advertises an $800 discount on each vehicle, while some dealers in the West, where gas prices are highest, are adding $2,000 premiums. 
 Nationwide, Prius sales jumped sharply in May, when gasoline prices rose above $3 a gallon. Worldwide, Toyota has sold more than one million Prius cars.
 Toyota was alarmed to see Prius sales flatten last year, just when it planned to double shipments to the United States. It sold 105,000 in 2006, but is on track to sell 175,000 this year.
 Before gas prices hit record levels, Prius sales were climbing, in part because of the first national advertising campaign, as well as rebates, which began in February. 
 The deals caught Dave Hancock's eye. ''I usually fast-forward past commercials, but I put on the brakes and said, What's this?'' said Mr. Hancock of Rochester.
 When he brought home his car, his daughter called from Atlanta to congratulate her parents ''for being so environmentally conscious,'' said Mr. Hancock, who is retired from the Eastman Kodak Company.
 Toyota's competitors have had little success in approaching the sales level of the Prius, but not for lack of trying.
 Honda actually beat Toyota to the hybrid market with its Insight, but it has since discontinued that car. And it is dropping a hybrid version of the Accord, whose gas mileage was not much better than the gas-powered Accord, and carried a higher price.
 Honda, which sells a hybrid Civic, said it planned to come back with a new hybrid designed from the ground up as a hybrid, not a converted car. It is already giving sneak peeks to environmentalists like Mr. Becker of the Sierra Club, who drove a prototype brought to Washington by Honda engineers.
 General Motors has been promoting the Chevrolet Volt, a concept hybrid that it says it will build once it has developed batteries for it. 
 In the meantime, G.M. is selling the Saturn Vue, a small sport utility vehicle that is available in ''mild hybrid'' form, meaning that it has an electric motor that can assist its primary gas engine but the car cannot run on electricity alone. G.M. also plans to introduce a hybrid version of the Saturn Aura car and says it will eventually have 12 hybrid vehicles, although Volt appears to be the only one that would be built specifically as a hybrid.
 ''We think we're covering the market well,'' said Brian Corbett, a G.M. spokesman.
 So does the Ford Motor Company, even though it has pulled back from a commitment to sell 250,000 hybrids a year in the United States by 2010. 
 In June, Ford officials, including the chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, said the company had more hybrids under development beyond the Ford Escape and Mercury Mariner, both small S.U.V.'s. It has not set a new target for hybrid sales. Escape sales are up 10 percent this year, with Ford expecting to sell 22,000.
 Toyota executives have said they plan to offer a hybrid version of everything the company sells worldwide, perhaps as soon as 2010. Japanese press reports say Toyota may even build Prius into a separate brand, with basic and sporty Prius models. 
 Automotive News reported that Toyota may add a stand-alone hybrid for Lexus, which sells several hybrid cars and S.U.V.'s. Mr. Coleman of Toyota would not discuss specifics, but he said senior management ''is very bullish'' on hybrids.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 6, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Wednesday about the popularity of the Toyota Prius hybrid car misstated the number of the cars that have been sold worldwide. It is about 750,000 Priuses -- not one million, which is the total number of hybrid cars Toyota has sold.
A front-page article on Wednesday about the popularity of the Toyota Prius hybrid car misstated the number of the cars that have been sold worldwide. It is about 750,000 Priuses -- not one million, which is the total number of hybrid cars Toyota has sold.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter and Karen Darnell of Westford, Mass., bought a Prius to try to reduce their impact on the environment. (Photograph by Erik Jacobs for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 When Dave Hancock of Rochester bought a Prius, he said, his daughter congratulated him ''for being so environmentally conscious.'' (Photograph by James Rajotte for The New York Times)(pg. A11) Chart: ''In Demand'' Sales of the Prius have risen sharply this year. (Source: MotorIntelligence.com)(pg. A11) Bar chart shows increase in sales each month from 2000 to 2006. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (88%); SEDANS (78%); TRENDS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (70%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (62%); GLOBAL WARMING (61%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (54%) OREGON, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007



83 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: New Grandeur For Penn Station In Latest Plan

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
It began as a proposal to restore the Beaux-Arts grandeur of the old Pennsylvania Station. It grew into a sweeping plan to transform the area around the station into a district of gleaming office towers. Now it is growing again. 
 In the next three weeks, two of the city's largest developers will unveil new plans for rebuilding the station, moving Madison Square Garden, replacing the Hotel Pennsylvania, and erecting a pair of skyscrapers, one of which would be taller than the Empire State Building, over the site of the existing station. 
 Though the new plan is broadly similar to a proposal offered a year ago, it is different in several important ways, starting with the cost: $14 billion, double that of the original plan, a real estate executive who has seen the plan said. It is also bigger than anticipated: the entire plan, involving buildings on six adjacent blocks, would create 10 million square feet of new office space off West 33rd Street, as much as in the old World Trade Center. 
 The developers, Stephen M. Ross and Steven Roth, have also burnished their vision for the station, which would be renamed after Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, who championed the original idea. Civic groups and the head of the City Planning Commission, Amanda M. Burden, had complained that last year's plan treated the underground station as an afterthought, without a grand public space worthy of the country's busiest transit hub. 
 The new plan would try to recapture the imposing aura of the original station inside the James A. Farley Post Office across the street, with a vast, street-level waiting room under a glass canopy that would spill sunlight onto the concourse two levels below. 
 In the next three weeks, the public will get its first, albeit sketchy, look at the new plan when the Spitzer administration takes the first step in an environmental review of the project's potential impact on the neighborhood.
 ''It's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, and I think the stars are aligned to do this,'' said Patrick J. Foye, co-chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, the state authority overseeing the project. 
 It is far from a done deal.
 Despite progress on the designs and numerous meetings with officials from Amtrak, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, New Jersey Transit, the Long Island Rail Road and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the developers do not have a definitive agreement with the various transportation agencies. 
 The developers also have yet to hammer out a final deal with the owners of Madison Square Garden, Cablevision and the Dolan family, to move the Garden to the western part of the Farley building, which would be the arena's fifth home in 132 years. The two sides have a nonbinding agreement.
 More important, the estimated cost of renovating the station has also doubled, to $2 billion, and no one knows who will pay. Compounding the problem, another state project, the expansion of the nearby Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, has also doubled in cost, to $4 billion. And state officials have warned that the proposed renovations of the Farley building may not qualify for $225 million in federal tax credits they want.
 Proponents contend that the Moynihan Station project has an important benefit that justifies using public dollars: a new transportation hub that would form a monumental gateway to the city. But civic groups have also argued that the developers should shoulder a substantial portion of the cost of renovating the station because it would make their property far more valuable.
 Mr. Roth, the chairman of Vornado Realty Trust, and Mr. Ross, chief executive of the Related Companies, would build 5.5 million square feet of office and retail space on the current site of Madison Square Garden, on Eighth Avenue between 31st and 33rd Streets. If it were approved, they would also build a two million-square-foot tower at the southwest corner of Seventh Avenue and 34th Street, using development rights from the post office building.
 In addition, Mr. Roth's company plans to demolish the Hotel Pennsylvania, across Seventh Avenue from Madison Square Garden, to make way for a 2.5 million-square-foot building. Real estate executives and urban planners say that if the plan reaches fruition, Vornado, which already owns about seven million square feet in the neighborhood, will dominate one district like no other landlord in the city.
 ''Given the magnitude of the project and the wealth which could be created for the developers,'' Mr. Foye said, ''we expect them to make a significant contribution to the cost of the train station.''
 So far, the developers have said only that government should pay for the station.
 ''The project,'' said Vishaan Chakrabarti, a vice president of Related, ''will unlock billions of dollars in tax revenues, remake the dismal area surrounding Pennsylvania Station'' and catalyze development on the Far West Side.
 That is a sentiment shared by the Bloomberg administration as well as business and civic groups like the Partnership for New York City and the Regional Plan Association. But Kent L. Barwick, president of the Municipal Art Society, a civic group that has met with the developers, said that it was ''inappropriate'' for the state to put the project on the fast track and begin an environmental review before ''the design, the financing and all the implications are on the table.''
 Senator Moynihan first suggested in 1992 that the Farley post office, which stretches from Eighth to Ninth Avenue opposite the Garden, could be turned into a grand train station to help alleviate congestion at Penn Station in a gesture of civic redemption for the much-lamented demolition of the original station in the 1960s.
 The state ultimately agreed to buy the Beaux-Arts post office, though the Postal Service continues to operate the historic stamp windows behind the colonnade on Eighth Avenue. In 2005, the state selected Related and Vornado to develop the project. Since the tracks beneath Madison Square Garden extend below the post office, the original plan was to convert the landmark building into a $900 million train station with a monumental train room and large stores like Kmart.
 But the developers always had bigger things in mind. They hoped to persuade Cablevision, which owns the Garden, to sell its development rights and move to a new arena, which would allow for the renovation of Penn Station and enable them to build a huge new office complex. 
 Last December, the plan hit a roadblock when the State Assembly, which is controlled by Democrats, refused to approve the Farley portion of the project, snubbing the outgoing Republican governor, George E. Pataki.
 Since then, the Spitzer and the Bloomberg administrations have been working with the developers. The latest plan calls for a new, 20,000-seat arena to be built in the western two-thirds of the Farley building. The glass-covered arena would rise as much as 35 feet above the roof of the post office, with a 10-foot setback. Signs advertising events at the Garden would be mounted on kiosks, rather than plastered on the building as the Garden owners originally suggested.
 One source of continuing dispute on the station has been the Garden's insistence that the colonnade on Eighth Avenue serve as the entrance to the arena, with basketball and hockey fans buying tickets at the stamp windows, walking around the interior, past a large train room, into the arena. Commuters using New Jersey Transit or Long Island Rail Road would enter the building through separate, street-level entrances.
 The Garden's owners are also proposing to replace interior brick walls with glass, allowing visitors to see the interior ofthe arena. But these proposals have come under fire from preservationists who worry that the Garden will overwhelm the Farley building, much as the Garden replaced Penn Station more than 40 years ago.
 ''We're looking for a well-designed, separate and distinct train station,'' said Peg Breen, president of the New York Landmarks Conservancy, a private preservation group. ''We do not want the Garden to swallow the station.''
 Not to worry, state officials say. ''This is, first and foremost, a transportation project,'' Mr. Foye said. ''The goal is to create something that is consistent with Senator Moynihan's vision of a public space that can accommodate 550,000 daily commuters and still have room for growth.''
 After work is done on the Farley building, the developers would move east to demolish the old Garden and allow for the renovation of Penn Station, with separate waiting rooms for Amtrak and for Long Island Rail Road passengers. New Jersey Transit would be the largest single transit tenant in the Farley building. The street-level part of the station would include two corridors running from Seventh to Eighth Avenue, several levels of stores and possibly a major department store in a 10- to 12-story base.
 The developers also plan to renovate Vornado's tower at 2 Penn Plaza and erect two skyscrapers, with one rising up to 1,400 feet, the other about 1,100 feet, according to executives who have seen the plans. On the lower levels, the towers, which would be completed in 2018, would have several 80,000-square-foot floors for a financial institution interested in a trading complex.
 The developers are also talking to city officials about an alternative plan that would permit them to transfer development rights to nearby properties so that the skyscrapers would not have to be so tall. Under this scheme, the developers would also be able to start construction of other office buildings before the new arena is completed.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The James A. Farley Post Office building on Eighth Avenue and 33rd Street would house Madison Square Garden and train entrances. (Photograph by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 The Farley Post Office, across the street from Penn Station, would hold a street-level waiting room under a glass canopy that would spill sunlight onto the train concourse two levels below. At left, shaded buildings are owned by Vornado Realty Trust, a partner in the redevelopment. (Photograph by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (86%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (86%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (75%); CITIES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PORT AUTHORITIES (65%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (64%)

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (63%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (62%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (62%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (62%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (51%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (51%)

PERSON: STEVEN ROTH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007



84 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: China Finds Poor Quality In Its Stores

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, July 4 

 BODY:
China said on Wednesday that nearly a fifth of the food and consumer products that it checked in a nationwide survey this year were found to be substandard or tainted, underscoring the risk faced by its own consumers even as the country's exports come under greater scrutiny overseas.
 Regulators said the broad survey of foods, agricultural tools, clothing, women and children's products and other types of goods turned up sizable quality and safety failure rates for products that are sold domestically. 
 The government said, for instance, that canned and preserved fruit and dried fish contained excessive bacteria; that 20 percent of the fruit and vegetable juice surveyed was deemed substandard, and that some children's products were defective or laced with harmful chemicals.
 The announcement came in the midst of a growing scandal over the quality and safety of Chinese-made exports and follows a series of international recalls involving everything from contaminated pet food ingredients and counterfeit toothpaste to toxic toys, defective tires and contaminated seafood.
 The General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine said the survey, conducted in the first half of this year, showed quality and safety improvements compared with conditions in the period a year earlier. But the announcement also suggested that Chinese consumers are at serious risk of being harmed by purchasing tainted foods, substandard goods and suspect or defective equipment.
 Regulators said, in effect, that goods sold in China were far more hazardous than the exports that were driving the country's economic growth and now partly the subject of safety and quality debates.
 Li Yuanping, a regulatory official, told the state-run Xinhua News Agency last month that ''99 percent of the food exported to the United States was up to safety standards over the past two years, which is a very high percentage.''
 But regulators in the United States, Europe and other countries are growing increasingly concerned about quality and safety failures involving Chinese made goods. 
 Last week, the Food and Drug Administration said it would block certain types of Chinese-made seafood, including shrimp, eel and catfish, from entering the United States unless it was certified to be safe.
 American regulators say they were forced to act after witnessing a sharp rise this year in the number of seafood products contaminated with carcinogens or excessive antibiotic residues.
 Facing a storm of criticism, China has repeatedly defended the quality and safety of its food and the goods it exports. But regulators have also moved to crack down on fake and poor-quality foods and consumer products.
 Nearly every week for the last several months, the government and China's state-controlled media have provided more evidence of how widespread are the quality and safety problems in this country, despite signs of progress in many areas of commerce.
 During the last month, regulators and quality inspectors say they have discovered candied fruit with 63 times the permitted amount of sweetener; excessive additives and preservatives in nearly 40 percent of the children's snacks surveyed in western Guangxi province; fake human blood protein at hospitals; and food tainted with formaldehyde, illegal dyes and industrial wax.
 Last week, the government even said it had shut about 180 food factories nationwide because of food safety violations. From December to May, regulators said they uncovered 23,000 cases involving fake or low-quality food.
 Experts say aggressive and opportunistic entrepreneurs continue to take advantage of the country's chronically weak enforcement of regulations, choosing to blend fake ingredients into products; to sign contracts agreeing to sell one product only to later switch the raw materials for something cheaper; and to doctor, adulterate or even color foods to make them look fresher or more appetizing, when in fact they might be old and stale.
 In its report released on Wednesday, the government said 80.9 percent of the food and other products checked in a nationwide survey met safety standards, and that this rate was higher than a year earlier, when about 78 percent of the good surveyed were deemed safe.
 The government said that more than 3,000 types of food had been checked nationwide and that thousands of companies were examined. 
 But regulators offered few details about why certain goods failed the quality and safety standards or how dangerous the products might be.
 The government did, however, say baby formula and baby clothing did not meet the safety standards, that animal feed, fertilizer and agricultural equipment were defective and that many food items were mislabeled or heavily colored by additives.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); SEAFOOD (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); QUALITY CONTROL (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); ANIMAL FOODS (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); PET FOODS (78%); CHEMICALS SAFETY REGULATION (77%); PRODUCT RECALLS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); BACTERIA (75%); FISH & SEAFOOD INSPECTION (75%); ANTIBIOTICS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); SCANDALS (72%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (70%); CARCINOGENS (69%); COUNTERFEITING (67%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); TIRES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007



85 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Boom in Commodity Prices Makes Perth Attractive to Many, Unaffordable to Others

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: PERTH, Australia 

 BODY:
The global commodities boom has been very good to the state of Western Australia and its capital, Perth. While the broad Australian economy has had some slow periods and property prices are rebounding, Perth has been humming.
 Kris Thomas seems perfectly placed to ride along with the good fortunes of the city. Mr. Thomas, a 25-year-old native of Perth, is a computer programmer for an oil and gas company at a time when the industry cannot find enough skilled people.
 But he is packing his bags and moving east to Melbourne, not because he does not have a good job but because he can no longer afford a decent place to live in Perth.
 Mr. Thomas, who is single, earns 57,000 Australian dollars, or $49,000 a year. The average wage in Western Australia rose last year to nearly 56,000 dollars, putting it the closest to salaries in the largest Australian state, New South Wales, in 13 years. 
 ''It's nearly impossible to get something in Perth at the moment,'' Mr. Thomas said. ''Housing prices in Perth have increased heaps, but salaries haven't.''
 Perth -- indeed all of Western Australia -- is in the midst of what local newspapers call a housing affordability crisis. Home prices in the city jumped 46 percent last year and although they have slowed, they are still creeping up.
 The median price of a home here rose to 455,000 Australian dollars ($390,000), just shy of prices in Sydney. That is as if prices in Houston began to rival those in New York City, or it cost as much to live in Lille, France, as in Paris. Housing in Perth now costs eight times the average resident's income, compared with just over seven times in New York.
 ''It's great news for those already in the market, but very difficult for first-time buyers and those trying to get into the market,'' said Rob Druitt, president of the Real Estate Institute of Western Australia.
 What is happening in Perth is a side effect of the global boom in commodities on exporting countries like Australia. While property prices in the United States and elsewhere have eased in many places after an extended wave of speculation, prices in cities riding the export boom are still heading upward.
 They are rising, as well, in Asian cities like Hong Kong and Singapore, but young people there tend to live with their parents until they are married and can buy their own homes. In Australia, young people typically move out when they finish school, if not sooner.
 With its warm climate, nearby vineyards and beaches, the Perth region has been something of a sanctuary for its 1.5 million residents, the antithesis to increasingly crowded Sydney and Melbourne. A city of suburbs, Perth was a place where one could still pursue the Great Australian Dream: owning a home with a barbecue in the backyard.
 The scene in Perth today is in some ways a throwback to the gold rush of the 1890s; only the rush today is for copper, nickel and iron ore. Western Australia sends out $130 million a day in exports, and the big mining companies cannot keep up with demand. Roughly $58 billion in mining expansion projects are under way to bolster output.
 There are not enough workers to fill those projects. Mining companies are so desperate for labor that they offer to let workers live in Perth and fly them hundreds of miles to work in the mines.
 The pay and perks have lured workers from other industries. Plumbers and electricians are rare now in Perth. Restaurants and tourist places have cut back operating hours because of staff shortages.
 ''Anyone who can cook is going up and earning big money on a mining camp,'' said Alan Langford, chief economist at HBOS Australia, a diverse financial services company in Perth.
 The Australian government responded in May by lifting immigration quotas. Last year, Western Australia also started a nationwide advertising campaign, ''Go West Now.''
 There is a sort of east-west divide, with Western Australia's economy growing 7 percent a year, compared with 4.2 percent for the country as a whole. The national unemployment rate fell last year to 4.8 percent; in Western Australia, 3.1 percent.
 Huge fortunes are being made. Andrew Forrest recently reached the $3 billion mark, as higher iron ore prices swelled the value of shares in his company, Fortescue Metals.
 People have stopped calling Perth a backwater. In the past, career-oriented residents who wanted higher-paying jobs moved east. ''Now, that's flipped around because of the resource boom,'' Mr. Druitt of the real estate institute said. ''It's changing Perth from being a beautiful place to live to being also a great place to work.''
 City planners are hoping to further revitalize the city by moving underground the rail line that divides the downtown area from trendier areas across the tracks. Using Potsdamer Platz in Berlin as a model, the city wants to lure singles and other professionals.
 But for many singles, housing is out of reach. First-time buyers fell to just 13 percent of all home purchases in Perth last year. While the average wage in Western Australia surpassed 55,800 Australian dollars last year, the average mortgage payment kept rising, to a third of that.
 ''I just can't get a loan for what I need,'' Mr. Thomas said. ''I'd have to get a crummy house.''
 Escalating housing prices are reflected in rents. With vacancy rates below 1 percent, rents rose 27 percent on average last year, and landlords have been able to hold ''rent auctions'' for eager applicants.
 Particularly hard hit are households earning less than 60,000 Australian dollars (about $51,000) a year, said Paul Pendergast, policy manager at Shelter WA, a community organization that advocates affordable housing. ''It sounds great to talk about the boom,'' he said, ''but it's not evenly spread. Anyone who's not already a homeowner or not already working in the mining industry is suffering.''
 Shelter WA and other critics accuse the state government of failing to release public land fast enough for development. Mr. Pendergast also criticizes the federal government for cutting money for construction of low-cost housing.
 Some in the real estate business say the boom may be waning: The number of properties on the market has tripled and it can now take as long as a month to sell one. But prices rose 5.6 percent more in the first quarter, and economists say prices will keep climbing as long as the market prices of resources continue to climb.
 ''All the stars are still aligned for the Western Australian economy,'' said John Garland, a real estate agent in Perth who has been in the business since 1965.
 They no longer beckon to Mr. Thomas. He has decided to make a contrarian bet, head east and look for a two-bedroom apartment in central Melbourne. ''When the mining stuff slows down in Perth in 10 years,'' he said, ''people will be more interested in Melbourne again.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Homes are selling well across Australia, like these in western Sydney, but especially in Perth, where mortgage payments are a third of wages. (Photograph by Jack Atley/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); CITIES (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); SUBURBS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PERTH, AUSTRALIA (96%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (91%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (68%) WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%) AUSTRALIA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (88%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007



86 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Sharp Rise Seen In Applications For Citizenship

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Dennis Blank contributed reporting from Orlando, Fla.

 BODY:
 The number of legal immigrants seeking to become United States citizens is surging, officials say, prompted by imminent increases in fees to process naturalization applications, citizenship drives across the country and new feelings of insecurity among immigrants. 
 The citizenship campaigns have tapped into the uneasiness that legal immigrants, especially Hispanics, say is a result of months of debate over an immigration bill that failed last week in the Senate. Although illegal immigrants were the center of attention in the debate, it prompted many legal immigrants who have put down roots here to seek the security of citizenship, as well as its voting power, immigrants' advocates said. 
 The numbers of new naturalized citizens have steadily grown, to 702,589 last year from 463,204 in 2003. A big jump occurred this year, with the number of applications increasing every month, to 115,175 in May compared with 65,782 last December. 
 More than 4,000 new Americans were sworn in yesterday in tradition-steeped -- and some not so traditional -- Fourth of July ceremonies. About 1,000 people from 75 countries took their oaths together under the turrets of Cinderella's Castle at Walt Disney World in Lake Buena Vista, Fla., as Gloria Estefan sang ''The Star-Spangled Banner.'' 
 In Iraq, 325 foreign-born soldiers who are fighting in the United States military took the oath of allegiance in two ceremonies. 
 For many legal immigrants, worry about their futures in the United States turned into action after an announcement on Jan. 31 by Citizenship and Immigration Services that it would increase application fees. 
 Under the new fees, which take effect on July 30, it will cost $675 to become a naturalized citizen, up 69 percent from $400.
 Immigrants have also been mobilized to press naturalization applications by a television and radio campaign that Univision, the national Spanish-language network, began in January in California. 
 The campaign, promoted by personalities like Eduardo Sotelo, a radio host in Los Angeles known as El Piolin, or Tweety Bird, has directed immigrants to 350 workshop centers run by churches and other community organizations in 22 cities. At the centers, immigrants receive English lessons and advice on meeting requirements and filling out forms.
 One radio listener was Angel Ivan Alvarez, 24, a legal immigrant from Mexico who said he had never thought of becoming a citizen until last week when the Senate bill failed. 
 The measure, a bipartisan compromise supported by President Bush, would have created a path to legal status for illegal immigrants, among other actions. 
 After it failed, Mr. Alvarez, a real estate agent from Whittier, Calif., took down information from El Piolin's show and registered in a citizenship workshop. 
 ''I realized that I want to be able to vote and speak up for my people, because they are not getting enough support,'' Mr. Alvarez said yesterday in a telephone interview. ''I want everybody to be able to come out of the shadows.'' 
 Federico Gutierrez, 53, a longtime legal resident of Chicago who was born in Mexico, said large protests in March 2006 in support of an immigration overhaul made him decide that it was time to engage in American politics. 
 When the debate turned angry, Mr. Gutierrez said, he wanted to be able to influence lawmakers who he believed favored immigrants. 
 He prepared his application and brushed up on his English and American history in classes offered by the New Americans Initiative, a citizenship campaign financed by Illinois. He became a citizen in May. 
 ''Now if I don't like the way things are going, I can let the government know my opinion,'' Mr. Gutierrez said in a telephone interview. 
 Some legal immigrants, particularly Hispanics, have said they were unfairly tarred in the debate over the Senate bill, which failed in part because of vehement opposition from conservatives who said it offered blanket amnesty to illegal immigrants. 
 ''A lot of people who are here legally are made to feel like lepers,'' said Rachel Duverge, 24, a Florida resident born in the Dominican Republic who was among the new citizens sworn in yesterday at Walt Disney World.
 Ms. Duverge said she became a citizen in part because she was eager to vote in the presidential election next year. President Bush, she said, ''has not handled immigration well.''
 To become citizens, immigrants have to be legal permanent residents who have lived continuously in the United States for five years. They cannot have a criminal record and must pass tests to show proficiency in English and a basic knowledge of American history and government. 
 Advocates for immigrants say the increase in fees has been a decisive incentive for working-class immigrants to take action, especially when more than one family member is eligible to be a citizen. 
 ''Before they said, 'I can do it anytime,' '' said Catherine Salgado, a spokeswoman for the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights in Chicago. ''Now it's not anytime anymore.'' 
 Ms. Salgado said the $675 fee was a week's wages for many immigrants who had applied for naturalization through workshops organized by the coalition. 
 The immigration agency is also remaking its civics and English tests, and many immigrants say they fear that the tests will be more challenging. 
 The Univision campaign had greater effects than its organizers expected, especially in California, said Maryam Banikaram, chief marketing officer for the company. Ms. Banikaram said the effort was part of its regular nonpartisan public service efforts of the company. 
 ''If you become a U.S. citizen, you have better opportunities,'' she said. ''We're just giving you the tools to make that a reality.''
 The campaign took off after the immigration debate became major news for Univision and Mr. Sotelo, or El Piolin, used his racy comic radio show as a soapbox to support legal status for illegal immigrants.
 Other immigrants are concerned about locking in economic gains that they have made as legal residents. 
 ''A prime motivator is security for the family and for employment,'' said Javier Angulo, director of civic education for the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials Educational Fund, which organized workshops in connection with the Univision campaign. ''People don't feel that being permanent residents is enough to secure their future in this country. They would just feel more secure as citizens.'' 
 In Chicago, Mr. Gutierrez said he started life in a corn-growing village in central Mexico and had worked in factories most of the time since entering the United States in 1979. He has two adult children who are United States citizens.
 ''I will always have Mexican blood,'' Mr. Gutierrez said, enjoying a day of rest on his first Fourth of July as an American citizen. ''But my heart is here.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 7, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page picture caption on Thursday with an article about an increase in the number of legal immigrants seeking to become United States citizens referred incorrectly to the group of service members shown being sworn in at a naturalization ceremony in Baghdad on Wednesday. They were all members of the United States Army; no members of the Marine Corps were shown, nor were any marines naturalized during the ceremony.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Main Street at Walt Disney World in Lake Buena Vista, Fla., after a naturalization ceremony at Cinderella's Castle at the far end of the street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN RAOUX/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A10) CHARTS: ''Surge in Citizenship Applications'': Applications to become a naturalized citizen have grown markedly in recent months. Mexicans make up the largest group of applicants. (Source: Department of Homeland Security) Bar chart show monthly applications from 2005 to 2007. Bar chart shows percentages of nationalities applying fiscal 2006. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIZENSHIP (97%); NATURALIZATION (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); ARMED FORCES (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (62%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (62%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (55%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2008



87 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: How a Revolution Saved an Empire

BYLINE: By MICHAEL ROSE. 
Michael Rose, a retired British Army general, commanded the United Nations forces in the former Yugoslavia from 1994 to 1995.

DATELINE: London 

 BODY:
 AS Lord Cornwallis's defeated army marched out of Yorktown, Va., in October 1781, its band is said to have played a tune called ''The World Turned Upside Down.'' It seemed appropriate: Cornwallis, King George III and his ministers were convinced that this defeat and the withdrawal of British troops from the 13 colonies would result not only in anarchy in America but also in the collapse of the entire British Empire. 
 France, Spain and other rivals, they were certain, would seize the remaining colonies in America, the West Indies, the Mediterranean and India. Worse still, the Irish, heartened by the success of the American rebellion, would rise up. At the end of the day, Britain would become no more than an unimportant island off northwestern Europe. 
 Of course, George III's strategic assessment on the outcome of the defeat at Yorktown -- like everything else that he had been responsible for during the War of Independence -- was entirely wrong. It was by finally accepting defeat in what at that time was a relatively unimportant part of the world that Britain was able to focus on what really mattered -- continuing to build its influence and empire across the globe. 
 If the Whig opposition, led by Lord Rockingham, had not had the moral courage and vision to accept defeat by the American colonists, and had not been able to persuade the king and his ministers to do likewise, Britain would likely have lost its position in the world, and today the people of the largest democracy in the world, India, would be speaking either French or Portuguese. By ending the unnecessary war in North America, Britain was able rapidly to rebuild its army and navy, eventually take on and defeat Napoleon, and become the unquestioned pre-eminent global power.
 Few saw this in 1781. During the cruel years of the war, George III had followed a hopelessly flawed strategy and had failed to commit adequate resources to the mission. He had never understood the character or nature of the American people and he had greatly underestimated their determination to throw off the yoke of British rule. The War of Independence had never just been about ''taxation without representation.'' It had been about the freedom for Americans to develop their own society in the way that they wished. 
 Americans still spoke the same language and had the same respect for God as the English, but they no longer thought the same way. They wanted to engage in free trade and expand their empire to the West. The radical element of New England led by men like Samuel Adams and James Otis, in particular, had had enough of kings and bishops, the corruptions of the legal system, the vice admiralty courts and the British Navy's press gangs. It was fortunate for the world that the American Revolution succeeded -- for under British rule America would never have become the great country, the force in the world for good, that it ultimately became. 
 George III was oblivious to the changed mindset in the colonies, and through a combination of hubris and a conviction that as the leader of the world's premier military power he could bear no challenge to his authority, he had determined in 1775 to teach a sharp lesson to the radicals in North America: ''Blows must decide.'' 
 Unfortunately for Britain, he attempted to fight a conventional war against insurgents, and sent far too few troops across the Atlantic to accomplish the mission. Although they initially took New York and Philadelphia, the British subsequently failed to adjust to a counterinsurgency strategy against the ''war of the posts'' that George Washington adopted after his defeat at Germantown, Pa., in October 1777.
 Instead of trying to isolate the rebels and gain the support of the loyalist and uncommitted colonials, the British spent much of their time defending their bases and maintaining their supply lines, only occasionally venturing out on punitive expeditions. They never succeeded in cutting off the heartland of rebel resistance in New England by taking control of the Hudson River Valley. Nor was the British Army -- the finest in the world -- ever able to establish sufficient security in the countryside or counter rebel propaganda. It soon came to be regarded as foreign occupation force.
 Finally, the British were never able to prevent a steady flow of arms, ammunition, instructors and fighters from entering the colonies from abroad. Thus Washington, whose Continental Army was down to a few thousand fit soldiers, managed to survive the harsh winter of 1777-78 at Valley Forge and rebuild his military strength. When the British switched their main effort to the Southern colonies, Nathanael Greene, probably the most successful insurgent leader in military history until Mao Zedong, was able to wear down Cornwallis's army in the Carolinas to a point where Washington, now reinforced by the French, was able to beat the British in a conventional battle at Yorktown. 
 It had truly been the wrong war in the wrong place at the wrong time. So how did Britain recover? War is the parent of illusions, and the first step in ending a war must be to shatter those illusions. It takes courage to accept defeat and vision to see that good can emerge from what appears to be disaster. 
 On hearing the news of the defeat at Yorktown, Lord North, the prime minister and architect of the war, is reported to have thrown his arms in the air exclaimed, ''Oh, God, it's all over.'' In fact, for Britain it was just beginning. The nation was on the threshold of the industrial revolution; some rising politicians, like William Pitt (the younger one), could see beyond the end of the war and plan for Britain's rapid political and economic recovery. 
 This was no easy task. Britain was near bankruptcy when peace with America was officially signed. Pitt, however, realized that because of industrialization his nation was about to experience unprecedented economic growth. He rose to prime minister in 1783 and set about creating the necessary economic conditions for Britain to become the workshop of the world. 
 Pitt also passed the India Bill in 1784 -- thus ensuring that the sort of poor administration that had soured relations with the American colonies would not be repeated in Britain's other territories. (It also created the position of governor general in India, in which Cornwallis more than redeemed himself from his Yorktown disgrace.) 
 Most important, Pitt set about rebuilding the British Navy and Army, for he could see that war with France was looming once again. He would often visit the yards to ensure that ships were being constructed on time. Under the energetic direction of the Duke of York, the king's second son, the army was reorganized and retrained. New commanders were appointed for both services -- men like Nelson and Wellington -- who were determined not to make the same mistakes as their predecessors. It is hardly an overstatement to say that had Britain not ended the American War of Independence when it did, it could never have been in a position to defeat Napoleon. 
 Today, of course, the United States finds itself in much the same position as Britain in 1781. Distracted and diminished by an irrelevant, costly and probably unwinnable war in Iraq, America could ultimately find itself challenged by countries like China and India. Unless it can find a leader with the moral courage of Pitt, there is a strong probability that it will be forced to relinquish itsposition as the global superpower -- possibly to a regime that does not have the same commitment to justice and liberty that the United States and Britain have worked so hard to extend across the world over the past two centuries. 
 The sound of the first shot fired at Lexington in 1775 echoed across the world. So too did the firing of the last shot six years later at Yorktown. That second echo brought salvation for Britain, and ultimately great benefit to the entire world.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Paul Rogers) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NAVIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); ADMIRALTY LAW (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); FRANCE (79%); SPAIN (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007



88 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: At I.B.M., A Smarter Way To Outsource

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Jeffrey Taft is a road warrior in the global high-technology services economy, and his work shows why there are limits to the number of skilled jobs that can be shipped abroad in the Internet age.
 Each Monday, Mr. Taft awakes before dawn at his home in Canonsburg, Pa., heads for the Pittsburgh airport and flies to Houston for the week. 
 He is one of dozens of I.B.M. services employees from around the country who are working with a Texas utility, CenterPoint Energy, to install computerized electric meters, sensors and software in a ''smart grid'' project to improve service and conserve energy. 
 Mr. Taft, 51, is an engineer fluent in programming languages and experienced in the utility business. Much of his work, he says, involves being a translator between the different vernaculars and cultures of computing and electric power, as he oversees the design and building of software tailored for utilities. ''It takes a tremendous amount of face-to-face work,'' he said. 
 What he does, in short, cannot be done overseas. But some of the programming work can be, so I.B.M. employees in India are also on the utility project team. 
 The trick for companies like I.B.M. is to figure out what work to do where, and, more important, to keep bringing in the kind of higher-end work that needs to be done in this country, competing on the basis of specialized expertise and not on price alone. 
 The debate continues over how much skilled work in the vast service sector of the American economy can migrate offshore to lower-cost nations like India. Estimates of the number of services jobs potentially at risk, by economists and research organizations, range widely from a few million to more than 40 million, which is about a third of total employment in services. 
 Jobs in technology services may be particularly vulnerable because computer programming can be described in math-based rules that are then sent over the Internet to anywhere there are skilled workers. Already, a significant amount of basic computer programming work has gone offshore to fast-growing Indian outsourcing companies like Infosys, Wipro and Tata Consultancy Services.
 To compete, companies like I.B.M. have to move up the economic ladder to do more complicated work, as do entire Western economies and individual workers. ''Once you start moving up the occupational chains, the work is not as rules-based,'' said Frank Levy, a labor economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''People are doing more custom work that varies case by case.''
 In the field of technology services, Mr. Levy said, the essential skill is ''often a lot more about business knowledge than it is about software technology -- and it's a lot harder to ship that kind of work overseas.''
 The offshore specialists in India are learning that lesson. As they increasingly compete for higher-end work, the Indian companies are hiring thousands of workers this year in the United States, adding an odd twist to the offshoring trend. Tata alone plans to recruit 1,000 workers in America, said Surya Kant, president of the company's American unit, for ''the near-shore work that requires regular contact with clients in person.'' 
 For I.B.M., the world's largest supplier of technology services, moving up to more sophisticated work is not the only step in its strategy to address the rising global competition. Labor represents 70 to 80 percent of the cost in traditional technology service contracts, and the traditional work of maintaining and updating software and data centers for corporate customers is still a large part of I.B.M.'s services business.
 So I.B.M. has moved aggressively to tap the global labor pool, and it is increasingly using software to automate as much traditional services work as possible. Today, I.B.M. employs 53,000 people in India, up from 3,000 in 2002; in India, the salaries for computer programmers are still about a third of those in the United States. Over the same span, the company's work force in the United States declined slightly, to 127,000 at the end of last year.
 I.B.M. is also one of the world's largest software companies. And its software development work, bolstered by dozens of acquisitions in the last few years, is more and more being done with an eye for use in its services business -- to substitute software automation for labor. Smarter, more customized software can automatically handle some programming chores. I.B.M. employs 200,000 people worldwide in its services business, and if growth means constantly having to add more people, the business is in trouble. 
 ''We couldn't keep building out labor,'' Samuel J. Palmisano, the chief executive, said. ''The long-term strategic answer was not to have a half a million people working for I.B.M.''
 Today, the company's global work force is organized in clusters of business expertise and connected by high-speed communications links. Project managers can search worldwide for the right people with the right skills for a job. One tool is Professional Marketplace, a Web-based database of people and expertise.
 The idea is to build networks for producing and delivering technology services much like the global manufacturing networks that have evolved over the last couple of decades. Look inside a computer or automobile and the parts come from all over the world. High-end technology services projects increasingly will follow that formula, combining skills from across the globe and delivered on-site or remotely over the Internet.
 Over the years, I.B.M. has been challenged by disruptive waves of technology, from the minicomputer to the Internet. Mr. Palmisano sees the globalization of services as the next big shift in the business landscape, and I.B.M. is moving to adapt. ''We're reinventing I.B.M. once again,'' he said. ''We're reinventing it by moving up to the higher-value portions of our industry and creating this globally integrated enterprise.''
 The utility project I.B.M. is doing in Texas offers a glimpse of the global formula. The far-flung work team includes research scientists in Yorktown Heights, N.Y., and Austin, Tex.; software developers in Pune and Bangalore, India; engineering equipment and quality-control specialists in Miami and New York; and utility experts and software designers like Mr. Taft that have come from Philadelphia, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Chicago, Raleigh, N.C., and elsewhere. 
 I.B.M. plans to use the skills learned and software written for the smart-grid project in work with utility clients around the world. In the services field, these are deemed ''reusable assets,'' reducing costs in the future.
 Ron Ambrosio, a senior I.B.M. researcher, has been down to Houston a few times, attaching sensors to power lines and collecting gigabytes of data on electricity flows. He and others at I.B.M. are studying how to predict and prevent power failures, optimize performance, reduce costs and conserve energy. ''We're looking at this as part of a worldwide opportunity,'' he said.
 Dennis Hendon, an account executive, and Rob Calvo, a senior services consultant, lead the I.B.M. team in Houston. Mr. Hendon is an engineer by training, while Mr. Calvo has a business degree, but their real skills lie in years of on-the-job training -- what labor experts call ''passive knowledge'' and ''complex communications,'' observing, listening, coordinating, negotiating and persuading. The two men say they think of themselves as orchestra conductors, getting all the human parts working smoothly together, inside and outside I.B.M. ''We aren't mounting the poles, but our subcontractors are,'' Mr. Hendon said.
 CenterPoint considered trying to do the smart-grid project itself, but not for long, said Thomas Standish, a senior vice president. ''We don't begin to have the kind of Internet and technological sophistication we needed for this,'' he said. CenterPoint talked to other large technology services companies, Mr. Standish said, but soon settled on I.B.M. as the one with the breadth of research, software and services capability needed for the ambitious project.
 In Pune, Dheeraj Gupta, a 34-year-old software engineer, said it was I.B.M.'s breadth -- and thus the range of opportunity for him -- that prompted him to join the company in 2000. After earning a master's degree at an elite technical institute in India, Mr. Gupta worked at four software and services companies in India before being recruited to I.B.M. 
 At I.B.M., Mr. Gupta began as a Java programmer, but later moved to higher-end work, personifying the strategy for success in the evolving global services economy.
 Today, Mr. Gupta leads a team of four developers writing software for utilities like CenterPoint. ''I'm a technical guy,'' he said. ''And now I'm moving higher up the ladder. I know various software technologies but now I'm gaining business and industry expertise as well.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeffrey Taft, at desk, an I.B.M. engineer from near Pittsburgh, working with Jared Scheuer at a utility in Houston. (Photograph by Jessica Kourkounis for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Jeffrey Taft of I.B.M., left, discussing software with Jared Scheuer, right, of CenterPoint Energy in Houston. (Photograph by Jessica Kourkounis for The New York Times)(pg. C4) Diagram: ''Home Team Advantage'' To compete with foreign service providers, companies like I.B.M. need to do more specialized work that requires domestic expertise. An I.B.M. project to upgrade a Texas utility is a good example most positions are filled by local experts because business knowledge and face-to-face interactions are required. For future utility projects, I.B.M. can reuse its technology, allowing it to cut costs. Diagram shows various I.B.M. jobs in various locations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (89%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (88%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES & TOOLS (69%)

COMPANY: CENTERPOINT ENERGY INC (57%); INFOSYS LTD (54%); TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES LTD (52%)

TICKER: CNP (NYSE) (57%); INFY (PAR) (54%); INFY (NYSE) (54%); INFY (NSE) (54%); TCS (NSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); SIC7376 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (52%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007



89 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; GUEST COLUMNIST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: A National Gut-Check: Who Lives Better?

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN. 
Timothy Egan, a former Seattle correspondent for The Times and the author of ''The Worst Hard Time,'' is a guest columnist.

 BODY:
One of the memorable scenes in ''Sicko,'' Michael Moore's latest cinematic provocation, comes from France, where he shows doctors in their little white cars making house calls -- for free. 
 But it's not just France. When we lived in Italy some time ago, a doctor came to our farmhouse rental on Easter Sunday morning to diagnose a stomach ailment. He charged nothing. 
 Let's stipulate that Moore is a one-sided pamphleteer, with a bit of Mark Twain and Pat Robertson in his schtick. But like all propagandists, his job is not to find some objective truth, but to anger, challenge, ask hard questions. 
 With Independence Day just passed, a good nationalist shouldn't be afraid to answer those questions. So, who lives better, us or them?
 In Italy, this was a regular parlor game when friends came to visit. Inevitably, after a few days of taking in our new world -- a village public school for the kids, neighbors who opened the doors of their ancient homes to us, a lengthy siesta every afternoon -- our houseguests would side with the Italians. I would counter for the U.S.A., to keep the argument alive. 
 The Italians won on health, family and food. The United States was better on race and opportunity. 
 With health care, the anecdotal often carried the argument. One day, a tenant farmer named Sergio, our neighbor, woke with a terrible eye infection. He was full of pain, unable to see. Sergio got world-class care in Florence. After three days of attentive fussing in the hospital, he came home entirely well and without a bill. 
 Had he showed up at any American hospital -- poor, no insurance -- well, good luck. Especially in a place like Texas, where 30 percent of adults lack health insurance and what can pass for medical care is a get-in-line form of triage. 
 But even with insurance, Americans are stuck with what may be the worst of all systems: one that lets a handful of corporations make life-and-death decisions, with incentive to dump and deny. 
 Little wonder that the United States ranks 37th in effectiveness of health care. Italy ranks 2nd. This is a country that can't form a government to last longer than the soccer season, and yet, they make our medical system look barbaric. 
 If our system doesn't kill you -- see the infant mortality and life expectancy rates, bringing up the rear -- it can put you in the poorhouse. Medical catastrophes are the leading cause of bankruptcy, and most of those are people who have some insurance, clinging to the frayed edge of the middle class. 
 O.K., so what about leisure? Americans spend nearly a third of their disposable income on good times, baby. But we can't relax. Sorry -- no time. Lunch averages 31 minutes. And the U.S. ranks dead last among 21 of the world's richest countries when it comes to guaranteed days off, according to the Center for Economic and Policy Research. 
 Most Americans don't even use their allotted days of leisure. The Italians take 42 vacation days a year -- No. 1 in the world. The average American takes 13. 
 A quarter of Americans receive no vacation at all. And it's not like we don't need it: one in three are chronically overworked. We even work 100 hours a year more than the Japanese. 
 President Bush has it figured out, with his month off at the ranch. But for a profile in clueless, Bush set the mark when he lauded as truly American some citizen who told him she had to work three jobs. Ain't that something? 
 Ah, but what about taxes? Europeans pay more than we do, to fund that free health care. Take that, Euro-trash, while lying on the beach. And yet, our tax system is approaching Gilded Age disparity. Listen to Warren Buffett, the third richest man in the world. Last year, he was taxed at 17 percent of his taxable income, he said last month. His receptionist paid nearly twice that, at 30 percent. 
 Where America shines is with our multiracial society and the easy access to opportunity. It was jarring to listen to otherwise thoughtful Tuscans denigrate Ethiopian immigrants or even their Sicilian countrymen. 
 By contrast, nothing made me prouder than telling Italians that I came from a place with an African-American mayor and a Chinese-American governor. Or that I grew up in a big Irish-American family with little money. 
 A patriot should not be afraid to have this debate, vigorously -- after a nap. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (76%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (72%); SOCCER (68%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (67%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (65%); INFANT MORTALITY (65%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (64%); EASTER SEASON (56%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007



90 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: Seeking New Leader's Persona In Turkmens' Murky Isolation

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: ASHGABAT, Turkmenistan 

 BODY:
The old man drove through the gilded city in a dilapidated Soviet-era car. He passed by massive white-marbled buildings with gleaming cupolas and by lines of the ubiquitous police. Along the way were huge portraits and golden statues of the fabulously jowled president for life.
 The car coasted by a huge photograph of a younger man. It had been freshly bolted to a government building. 
 ''You see?'' said the man, who, owing to the precautions ingrained in the Turkmen population, gave only a first name, Bairam. ''There is our new president. Every week more of his portraits are appearing.''
 There is a new public face in Turkmenistan, the self-isolated police state on the Central Asian steppe, where one man's face had long been the symbol of the state. It belongs to President Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov, 50, who stepped out of the palace shadows last December after the death of Saparmurat Niyazov, the dictator who had ruled since the Soviet Union's collapse. 
 Since a rigged election in February, the new president (whose name is pronounced gur-BAHN-goo-lee bair-dee-mukh-ha-MAY-doff) has assumed a job extraordinary in both its oddness and its possibilities. He has succeeded the megalomaniac who called himself Turkmenbashi, the Leader of All Turkmens.
 With this post, Mr. Berdymukhammedov sits atop a personality cult so pervasive that even in death the identity of the president is inseparable from that of the country. 
 But he has inherited more than golden statues and unchecked dominion over a frightened population. He holds the keys to enormous gas fields and state coffers, and has lines of eager suitors from China, Russia, Turkey, Iran, Israel, the European Union and the United States.
 He has promised reform, and there are signs of change, including a slight easing of the government's iron grip over the populace. 
 In June, he instructed the Turkmens not to turn his birthday into an ostentatious national festival. In Turkmenistan, where citizens celebrated the old president on his birthday with an energy that fear and desperation can produce, this is regarded as a good sign. [Lower level officials ignored him, however; parties, concerts and public rallies were held.] He has also acknowledged the nation's problems with drug addiction, which his predecessor denied.
 But as outsize portraits of the current president begin replacing those of Turkmenbashi, Turkmens and foreign diplomats alike wonder: Is the new president actually inclined -- or even able -- to dismantle one of the weirdest and most repressive governments on earth? Or will he eclipse the Turkmenbashi phenomenon with his own brand of one-man rule? 
 Evan A. Feigenbaum, the deputy assistant secretary of state for South and Central Asia, who visited Turkmenistan in June with hopes of expanding relations with the United States, seemed cautiously optimistic. 
 ''By and large the trajectory is a positive one,'' he said by telephone. ''We think that this is a country with enormous potential, and a country with powerful opportunities should it choose to engage.''
 Bairam was not hopeful. The Turkmenbashi portraits are coming down, he said, but ''everything will be the same.''
 In fact, neither side seems certain what is happening, in part because the legacy of the dead president remains strong. Turkmenistan is governed in part by fear, a place where uttering the president's name in public can cause people to flinch, whisper and hush.
 Even by the standards of Central Asian politics, where autocracy and endemic corruption are the norm, Mr. Niyazov stood alone. Diplomats describe him with words diplomats do not typically use: madman, sadist, freak, thief. 
 He assembled a government that was opaque and impenetrable. Six months after his death, no one pretends to be able to peer in. 
 The few analysts who cover Turkmenistan say they do not know whether Mr. Berdymukhammedov is secure in power or barely holding on. They have trouble defining his inner circle and decision-making processes, much less his plans or his ability to realize them.
 ''It's like looking into a tank, and you can see into the water and all the fish swimming there, but you can't put your hand in and touch anything,'' said one European diplomat, describing interactions with Turkmen officials. ''They are afraid to talk in all meetings, because everything is bugged as far as they know.''
 In this uncertainty, everyone reads signs. Some are promising, others not. In interviews with nearly two dozen Turkmens and with Western officials, diplomats and business officials, contradictory views emerged.
 One middle-aged man said his home had been razed to make way for gaudy new housing towers. But he sat in the shack where he is a squatter and spoke warmly of the new president. 
 Mr. Niyazov neglected to pay salaries, he said. Now workers at state collective farms are paid promptly. ''They used to live like slaves,'' the man said. ''It is becoming better.''
 Several Turkmens noted that while the government was repressive, it was not quite the dreary mess of Soviet times. Asian products fill markets, and the country has avoided the terrorism, war and theocracy that have afflicted its neighbors. 
 Electricity and heat are free, food is inexpensive and gasoline is heavily subsidized. ''We are not free,'' one man shrugged. ''But we are not hungry.''
 Mr. Niyazov stopped public education at the ninth grade and forced students to study the Rukhnama, two volumes of semi-autobiographical poems and pablum he wrote and claimed would cleanse the nation. He left a generation of marginally educated Turkmens.
 Mr. Berdymukhammedov, a dentist with a reputation as a competent bureaucrat, has restored 10th grade, and says more education reforms will follow. It is not clear whether he has the will or power to scrap the Rukhnama, knowledge of which is tested on civil-service exams.
 Some of the president's actions also carry whiffs of his predecessor's egocentric love of power. Mr. Niyazov endlessly purged senior officials, keeping the government terrified and churning. His successor has followed this example. 
 In April, he fired the country's senior law enforcement officer on national television. ''I have a whole file with evidence against you,'' he said. ''I could dishonor you like a dog.''
 Many of his reforms have also been only partial. Police checkpoints are less aggressive than before, residents say, but remain common. 
 A presidential pledge to allow universal Internet access has resulted only in a handful of state-run Internet cafes. When a journalist visited one, it had five computers but no customers. Internet surfing cost nearly $4 an hour -- a huge sum in a nation where salaries are often less than $65 a month.
 Moreover, access to some Russian-language material criticizing the government was blocked, and a police officer arrived and sat beside the journalist within 15 minutes.
 Problems extend to other spheres. Mr. Berdymukhammedov seeks outside investment, but business remains dysfunctional.
 One Western businessman said his office was stacked with informants from the Turkmen successor to the K.G.B. Bank accounts had been frozen and money not recovered, and leases summarily revoked and tenants evicted -- in one case a day after an employee had paid six months' advance rent.
 ''You don't get any serious investors here because you don't know what will happen to your investment,'' the businessman said. (Still, guests note that occupancy has doubled at many hotels, as speculators seek a rush on construction, oil and gas, and in sectors underdeveloped in Mr. Niyazov's planned economy.)
 There is also no public discussion of the country's problems or the government's behavior because there is no independent press. All Turkmen news content is controlled from the president's office. 
 ''They never tell the truth,'' said one young woman. ''Everything is good, good, good.''
 Another man, a merchant, said that whatever face the president hoped to show abroad, the country would not be transformed. ''The system is now in place and he can live here like a king,'' he said. ''The people will never wake up.''
 Mr. Berdymukhammedov, for his part, has offered pinpoint change. He speaks of foreign investment. On power-sharing and human rights, he has been less ready to change.
 When asked about democratization by Turkmenistan Magazine, he signaled no rush. ''Since childhood, I keep in memory my father's phrase,'' he said. '' 'Never run to where you can simply walk.' ''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Turkmens celebrated President Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov's 50th birthday on Friday, despite his unusual suggestions of restraint. (Photograph by Zhao Tsun Hsiung/Reuters)(pg. A1)
Former President Niyazov named himself Leader of All Turkmens.
 A new cult for a new leader? In Ashgabat, capital of Turkmenistan, a newly installed portrait of President Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov faces a golden statue of his predecessor, Saparmurat Niyazov. (Photographs by C. J. Chivers for The New York Times)(pg. A7) Map: The streets of Ashgabat are gray with fear and mystery. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTION FRAUD (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (63%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKMENISTAN (99%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTH CENTRAL ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007



91 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Africa: Land Of Hope

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: KIGALI, Rwanda 

 BODY:
 In the early 1990s, Rwanda reinforced all the worst stereotypes of Africa: wretchedly poor, torn apart by war and seemingly destined to be an international basket case forever. 
 Yet now it has become the little nation that could. It is clean, safe and enjoying economic growth more than twice as fast as the U.S. or Europe. And Rwanda underscores something that is easy to forget: There are signs of a turnaround in Africa, and plenty of reason for optimism.
 This is the last column from my win-a-trip journey in Africa with a student, Leana Wen, and a teacher, Will Okun, and the stories have been long on gloom and suffering. But there is also a cheerier side to Africa, and Rwanda reflects the continent's potential when there is both stability and good governance. 
 Dr. Paul Farmer, the Harvard public health specialist best known for his work in Haiti, is among a growing number of Americans who have begun working in Rwanda in part because it is so well-managed. 
 ''The first time I got stopped by a policeman here, I thought, 'Oh, no! Am I going to get kidnapped, or worse?' '' said Dr. Farmer. ''I rolled down the window, and the policeman said, 'Put on your seat belt.' ''
 In the early 1960s, most of Africa was richer than Asia and many economists expected Africa to zoom far ahead of Asia. Back then, the World Bank named a group of African countries that it projected to grow at 7 percent annually.
 Instead, Africa drove over a cliff. Of those countries with good data, one-third now have lower per capita incomes than they did at independence (typically about 1960), and the five worst-performing economies in the world from 1960 to 2001 were all in Africa.
 What went wrong? The two most important reasons were that Africa was terribly governed and that it was torn apart by wars.
 The problem of conflict is as bad as ever (Darfur sums it up), but governance is getting far better.
 Increasingly there are new leaders like Paul Kagame here in Rwanda who are honest, intelligent and capable. President Kagame reads Harvard Business Review and is an African version of Lee Kuan Yew, the founder of modern Singapore. Both are authoritarian, repressive and quirky (Mr. Kagame banned plastic bags to curb litter). Both did wonders for their countries' living standards. And both are blunt.
 I asked President Kagame why Asian countries that used to be at the same income level as Africa are now so much richer. He offered one reason that bowled me over: perhaps Asians are today more ambitious and work harder.
 ''I'm hesitant to talk about the issue of culture, but I have to -- and we have to work on it -- that culture of hard work, that culture of being ambitious and wanting to achieve,'' he said, adding: ''I believe that those values were in Africans, but I don't know what dampened it -- what killed it.'' 
 Wow. It's a bullish sign whenever a leader is willing to be self-critical, but in fact lackadaisical work may have more to do with malaria, anemia, worms and misrule than with culture.
 And when African countries have enjoyed stability and sound policies, they have often thrived. Indeed, the fastest-growing country in the world from 1960 to 2001 was Botswana (South Korea was second, and Singapore and China tied for third).
 More and more African countries are now following the Botswana model of welcoming investors and obeying markets. Aside from Rwanda, countries like Mozambique, Benin, Tanzania, Liberia and Mauritius are among those trying to build a future on trade more than aid.
 ''We're not going to say 'We don't need aid,' '' Mr. Kagame said. ''But there's no question about trade being more important than aid. There's no question about that.''
 Rwanda is trying to develop high-value exports like pomegranate juice that it could air-freight to Western countries. One of the best kinds of aid that the West could provide would be to expand the African Growth and Opportunity Act program, which encourages imports from Africa.
 After decades of stagnation, Africa has now been growing solidly for several years, and this year the average economic growth rate is expected to rise again, to about 6 percent. To me, much of Africa feels like India in the early 1990s as it was reforming its economy and setting the stage for today's boom.
 So here's an investment tip: Buy real estate in Benin and Rwanda. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (98%); RWANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); HAITI (79%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2007



92 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 866 words

 BODY:
MISSED CONNECTIONS AND LOST TIME The on-time performance of airlines has reached an all-time low, but the official numbers do not begin to capture the severity of the problem. That's because these statistics track how late airplanes are, not how late passengers are. Researchers who calculate the effect on passengers -- from missing connections to waiting around airports and hotels -- say the increase in delays has been very severe. 
 CHINESE CONSUMERS FACE RISK Nearly a fifth of the food and consumer products Chinese regulators checked in a nationwide survey this year were found to be substandard or tainted, underscoring the risk faced by Chinese consumers even as the country's exports come under greater scrutiny overseas. [C1.] 
 WAVES IN THE LABOR MARKET As they increasingly compete for higher-end work, Indian companies are hiring thousands of workers this year in the United States, adding an odd twist to the outsourcing trend. And even as I.B.M. has moved aggressively to tap the global labor pool, it is increasingly using software to automate as much traditional services work as possible. [C1.] 
 STILL CHASING THE DEAL Deal-making continued unabated over the last week, despite Congressional proposals to raise tax rates on private equity firms and the threat of a credit squeeze. The private equity industry appears to be taking advantage of favorable market conditions while it can. Market Place. [C1.] 
 A HOUSING BOOM IN BRAZIL ... Brazil's newfound economic stability and changes in lending laws are for the first time making it possible for the country's working poor to buy homes. And the country's construction and real estate companies are building as fast as they can. [C1.] 
 ... AND A PINCH IN AUSTRALIA Perth -- indeed all of Western Australia -- is in the midst of what local newspapers call a housing affordability crisis. The property prices are percolating up in cities riding a global boom in commodities. [C3.] 
 NEW BID FOR HUNTSMAN Less than two months after an unsuccessful attempt to acquire General Electric's plastics division, Apollo Management is making another run at a big industrial operation by trying to break up a $9.6 billion deal for the Huntsman Corporation. [C2.] 
 CHINESE VENTURE FOR CHRYSLER The Chrysler Group signed a deal with China's biggest automaker, Chery Automobile, for a production venture that could export the first Chinese-made cars to the United States within two and a half years. [C4.] 
 SNOOZING FOR HEALTH Now that memory-foam beds are no longer such a novelty, Tempur-Pedic has opted for a new message that emphasizes its product not as a bed, but as a wellness brand. Advertising. [C9.] 
 YOU'RE FIRED, SIR To avoid the risk of litigation after a firing, many employers and career specialists recommend treating soon-to-be former employees with respect, even as they are being shown the door. Small Business. [C5.] 
 TOO WIDELY KNOWN TO HARM As her husband made powerful enemies as a government whistle-blower, an Indian woman began to fear for his life. And so she devised an unusual ploy to protect him: She blogged. [C3.] 
 SWEDES RECONSIDER THEIR BIG CARS Swedes have a love affair with big, cozy cars, like the Volvos made in their own backyard. But as concern about global warming ripples across this country, their relationship with comfortable -- and highly polluting -- cars is becoming strained. [C4.] 
 GAZPROM ALLOWED TO ARM ITSELF The Russian state energy company Gazprom was granted the right to form its own armed security units to safeguard pipelines. [C3.] 
 SUPPLYING THE ANSWERS IN KOREA Web users in South Korea, one of the world's most-wired countries, seldom ''Google'' anything. They ''Naver'' it. Tapping a South Korean inclination to help one another on the Web has made Naver.com the undisputed leader of Internet search in the country. [C9.] 
 THE COSTS OF PROSPECTING A rapidly growing percentage of the best students say they want to manage hedge funds or private equity firms. But sending ever more talented graduates out to prospect for a finite number of lucrative deals adds little economic value for a high opportunity cost. Economic Scene. [C3.] 
 AN ELECTRONIC ST. BERNARD If you can afford the price (up to $650) and are willing to carry the weight (up to 14 ounces) in your backpack, a personal locator beacon may save your life if you get lost or injured while hiking or climbing. Basics. [C7.] 
 MARKETS RISE GLOBALLY World stock markets rose, buoyed by shares of hotel companies after Hilton Hotels agreed to be bought by the equity firm Blackstone Group. [C4.] 
 DEFINING 'SWEATPROOF' Sunscreen products have been drawing a growing number of critics who point to vague and improbable marketing claims, like ''all-day protection,'' and ''ultra sweatproof.'' Now the Food and Drug Administration says it will issue new sunscreen standards in the coming weeks. [G1.] 
 MUSIC SALES, IN TWO DIRECTIONS
 Album sales have continued their downward slide this year, but sales of digital tracks are up almost 50 percent over this time last year. A total of 230 million albums were sold in the United States from Jan. 1 to July 1, while 417 million digital tracks were sold. [C4.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO GRAPH 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOME PRICES (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRENDS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); CREDIT REGULATION (76%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); OUTSOURCING (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (63%); LITIGATION (50%); BRANDING (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: HUNTSMAN CORP (81%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (81%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); APOLLO ADVISORS LP (52%)

TICKER: HUN (NYSE) (81%); APO (NYSE) (52%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (81%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (81%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PERTH, AUSTRALIA (79%) WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (79%) AUSTRALIA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2008



93 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Bioengineered Milk? No Thanks

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Don't Cry Over rBST Milk,'' by Henry I. Miller (Op-Ed, June 29):
 Monsanto's genetically engineered hormone has not held up to scrutiny. When recombinant bovine growth hormone (rBGH; also known as rBST) is used, it elevates levels of insulin-like growth factor 1 in milk, which has been linked to increased risk of breast, prostate and other cancers. No wonder rBGH has been banned in Europe, Canada, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. 
 Seventy-four percent of Americans are concerned about negative long-term health effects from rBGH, while Starbucks, Publix and Safeway supermarkets and others have refused to use rBGH in many locations. 
 I dispute Dr. Miller's assertion that rBGH-injected cows can help reduce milk prices. The only national study on the subject contradicts his claims. Farms using rBGH are likely to use more grain, water, fuel, emit more greenhouse gases and spend more on feed and other inputs, offsetting any economic gains. 
 Dr. Miller's argument distracts from the real concerns over rBGH. Consumers are right to be wary; rBGH threatens to undermine the safety of nature's most perfect food. 
 Andrew Kimbrell
 Executive Director
 Center for Food Safety
 Washington, June 29, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Henry I. Miller argues that we should ''embrace'' the use of bovine growth hormone (rBST) in order to feed people more cheaply, save the environment and so on. He characterizes opponents of rBST as ''cynical,'' but I read Dr. Miller's arguments as cynical. 
 I have no idea if rBST is safe. But I do know that the dairy industry and its lobbyists do not want to require labeling milk produced with rBST. In fact, they are so intent on reducing information available to consumers that they are lobbying to prevent dairies from labeling their milk as ''rBST-free''! 
 There's good reason for cynicism. George Entenman
 Chapel Hill, N.C., June 29, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Henry I. Miller's Op-Ed article provides a welcome breath of fresh air. 
 Anticorporate activists have campaigned against this and other ag biotech products for years in denial of the demonstrated environmental, economic and health benefits. It is most welcome to see the facts finally given some exposure. 
 The data speak to a clear reality: If we are to meet the challenges of feeding and clothing a growing population in the 21st century without totally despoiling the planet, we will need all the tools we can find.
 Biotech is already making huge contributions toward meeting these challenges, and more to follow. There is in reality no greener approach than biotechnology. 
 L. Val Giddings
 Silver Spring, Md., June 29, 2007 
 The writer, a consultant, was vice president for agriculture of the Biotechnology Industry Organization, a trade group, from 1997 to 2005.
 To the Editor:
 I read in horror Henry I. Miller's latest recommendation for biotechnology in food. Is this really the conversation we want to be having about nutrition -- how to pump cows full of even more chemicals to keep up with our ravenous, fat-laden diets? 
 Dairy is the No. 1 source of saturated fat in the American diet. It is also full of cholesterol and hormones (natural and otherwise). Trying to make unhealthy foods cheaper by genetically modifying them is absolutely the wrong direction to be moving. 
 How about spending all that time, energy and money on something productive, like figuring out how to get fatty foods out of the American diet and replaced with whole real fruits, vegetables, beans and grains. 
 It would make my life as a dietitian a lot easier. Susan Levin
 Washington, June 29, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Urging more hormone injection of cows to increase milk production is backward. It suggests there's a milk shortage. The United States has long vastly overproduced milk. In recent years, the government accumulated a $1 billion stockpile of powdered milk from excess production. 
 Consumers want less use of drugs and chemicals in milk production, not more, as shown by skyrocketing organic milk purchases. Such hormones may increase the risk of breast, colon and gastrointestinal cancers, according to a University of Illinois study. 
 In cows, the hormones have been shown to increase lameness, udder infections and bone cancer. Europe and Canada outlawed using hormones on dairy cows because of such human and animal health concerns. 
 Increasing rBST milk would just move food production in the wrong direction. Bill Niman
 Nicolette Hahn Niman
 Bolinas, Calif., June 29, 2007
 The writers are cattle ranchers.
 To the Editor: 
 Dr. Henry I. Miller's article about the benefits of rBST is correct and thoughtful. Sustainable agricultural in the future, of necessity, will be largely sustainable intensive agriculture -- an agriculture that produces more (and often better) food, fiber and fuel on a smaller environmental footprint. 
 Dr. Miller has clearly stated the evidence that shows rBST to be part of sustainable agriculture: more milk that is identical to all other milk, produced by fewer cows with reduced environmental impacts. 
 As a society, we can make sensible choices to promote sustainable agriculture. Choosing rBST is one such sensible choice. Drew L. Kershen
 Norman, Okla., June 29, 2007
 The writer, a law professor, collaborated with Dr. Miller on a published article in Nature Biotechnology and on a book chapter several years before the published article in Nature Biotechnology.
 To the Editor:
 What parent or teacher has not noticed that girls are maturing far earlier than they used to? Years are being stolen from their childhoods. These added years will extend the time their bodies deal with adult hormones. 
 There is as yet no medical research showing the cost of several extra years of hormones flooding the system. Since this is a new phenomenon in our lives, we can't know the ultimate costs to our children.
 But for Henry I. Miller to write blithely of the benefits of rBST to farmers, and to Monsanto, without considering the effects on our children is shortsighted at best. If the Food and Drug Administration chooses to value benefits to business above the health of our children, we should at least be informed of its decision.
 Label the milk that is rBST produced. Place obvious labels, and then let parents choose the milk they deem best for their children. 
 Sally E. Carp
 Staten Island, June 29, 2007

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TAMARA SHOPSIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY FARMING (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (89%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); FOOD LABELING (78%); MILK (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (77%); BIOLOGICAL FACTORS (77%); MEN'S HEALTH (76%); CROP RESEARCH (73%); AGRICULTURE (73%); WRITERS (73%); CLIMATE CHANGE (72%); PRODUCT SAFETY (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); GREENHOUSE GASES (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); POPULATION GROWTH (57%)

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (58%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (58%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



94 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-7
 Mosque Rebellion LeaderTaken by Pakistan Security
 Pakistani security forces arrested one of the leaders of the rebellion at a radical mosque in the capital as he tried to escape disguised in a burka among more than 1,000 students who surrendered at the complex. A1
Turkmenistan's New Leader 
 The new president of Turkmenistan has assumed a job extraordinary in its oddness and possibilities. Standing atop one of the most pervasive cults of personality of all time and holding the keys to enormous gas fields and state coffers, he is being courted by China, Russia, Turkey, Iran, Israel, the European Union and the United States. A1 
 Mexico Landslide Buries Bus
 A landslide completely buried a bus carrying at least 40 passengers in the mountains of southern Puebla State, and by late evening. More than 400 soldiers and rescue workers eventually arrived at the scene to dig out survivors, but most of the passengers were feared dead. A7 
 Subdued Holiday in Green Zone
 As the American Embassy in Baghdad held a subdued Independence Day celebration under heavy security in the Green Zone, assassinations, roadside bombs and a suicide car bomb took at least 46 Iraqi lives. Two American soldiers also died and one was wounded, according to the military. A5 
 Hamas Release Changes Little
 The role of Hamas in securing the release of Alan Johnston, the kidnapped BBC correspondent, was not enough to warrant any immediate change in policy toward it, Western and Israeli officials said. A6 
 6 Canadians Die in Afghanistan
 Six Canadian soldiers and an Afghan interpreter died after their heavily armored vehicle was struck by a bomb on a road in southern Afghanistan. The deaths quickly renewed calls from several Canadian politicians for an end to Canada's military mission in Afghanistan. A4 
 China Pressured World Bank
 Chinese government officials pressed the World Bank into removing estimates that there are 750,000 premature deaths linked to pollution in China from a bank report, according to a person involved in drafting the report. A3 NATIONAL A8-11
 More Legal ImmigrantsSeek U.S. Citizenship
 The number of legal immigrants seeking to become American citizens is surging, officials say, prompted by imminent increases in fees to process naturalization applications, citizenship drives across the country and new feelings of insecurity among immigrants. A1 
 Iraq Contractors Show Stress
 Contractors who have worked in Iraq are returning home with the same kinds of combat-related mental health problems that afflict United States military personnel, according to contractors, industry officials and mental health experts. A1 
 Shifting Focus to Mrs. Clinton
 Former President Bill Clinton is a supporting actor who can easily upstage his leading lady, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. The Clintons' political stagecraft, and their goal of shifting the spotlight to her, has been a constant work-in-progress since her presidential campaign began. A1 
 Campaign Trail Goes to Iowa
 For most Americans, Independence Day is a day of relaxing, but for those who happen to be running for president, it is an opportunity. And nowhere was that more evident on this July 4 than in Iowa, the state with the caucuses that start the presidential nomination process. A11 
 Updating Traffic Reporting
 Motorists will receive up-to-the-minute accident alerts and guidance on end runs around bottlenecks without having to turn on a car radio. These advances are an attempt by private traffic services to bring some science and precision to what was an art form typically practiced by a reporter in a helicopter. A8 
 Anything-Goes Parade in Maine
 The annual Fourth of July parade in Round Pond, Me., is quintessential Americana turned on its head, a cross among a charming, Rockwellian parade, a roast and a political protest. Its claim to fame is that everyone, including the tourists who invade the village of 550 each summer, gets made fun of. A10 
 Al Gore's Son Is Arrested
 The son of former Vice President Al Gore, Al III, was arrested on speeding and drug charges, and released from a California jail 12 hours later after his sister Sarah posted a cash bail of $20,000. A10 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); BOMBINGS (88%); NATURALIZATION (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); HAMAS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); TERRORISM (71%); MENTAL HEALTH (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CITIZENSHIP (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (66%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (66%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (62%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) CHINA (94%); CANADA (94%); IRAQ (94%); TURKMENISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); ISRAEL (92%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007



95 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: No Fast Gain For Hamas After Release Of Journalist

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER and TAGHREED EL-KHODARY. 
Isabel Kershner reported from Jerusalem, and Taghreed El-Khodary from Gaza City.

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, July 4 

 BODY:
The role of Hamas in securing the release of Alan Johnston, the kidnapped BBC correspondent, is not enough to warrant any immediate change in policy toward it, Western and Israeli officials said Wednesday. 
 While Hamas presented the release as proof of its ability to restore order in the Gaza Strip now that it is solely in charge there, Western and Israeli officials said Mr. Johnston's freedom would not translate into international recognition and support for the group, which the United States, Israel and the European Union still classify as a terrorist organization and formally boycott. 
 ''It would be premature to expect an immediate impact on relations between the European Union and Hamas,'' said Cristina Gallach, the spokeswoman for the Union's foreign policy chief, Javier Solana. 
 David Baker, an Israeli government spokesman, said the release of Mr. Johnston, who spent 114 days in the hands of a shadowy group called the Army of Islam, was ''something the Israelis had been hoping and praying for.'' But he said Hamas was ''the same terrorist organization that orchestrated and perpetrated'' the seizure of an Israeli soldier, Cpl. Gilad Shalit, just over a year ago. 
 Nevertheless, Hamas has undoubtedly given its image a boost and gained in respectability. 
 In London the new British foreign secretary, David Miliband, acknowledged what he called ''the crucial role'' of the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas of Fatah, and of Ismail Haniya of Hamas, whom Mr. Abbas dismissed as prime minister after the Hamas takeover of Gaza. 
 Ms. Gallach said the efforts to secure Mr. Johnston's release ''by the international community, local Palestinian leaders and Hamas won't go unmentioned or unrecognized.'' 
 Moreover, many Palestinians in Gaza, including some Fatah loyalists, said they felt much safer since Hamas seized control of the strip in mid-June, routing the Fatah and Palestinian Authority forces there.
 ''I feel extremely secure,'' said Mona Bseiso, 43, a lawyer who works for the Palestinian Authority in Gaza City. ''We are Fatah,'' she said, but since Hamas took over, she added, ''There is no theft, no crime, and there are no bullets.'' 
 On Wednesday, Mr. Abbas's Western-backed emergency government, which rules from Ramallah in the West Bank, paid full salaries to most of the Authority's employees for the first time in more than a year. Even so, Fatah security force members in Gaza expressed anger at Fatah leaders and commanders, who they say abandoned them during the violent battle for the strip. 
 ''We want to see new faces around Abu Mazen,'' said Shihta Azazma, 27, a policeman who supports a family of 10, referring to Mr. Abbas by his popular name. 
 Mr. Azazma was leaving the Palestine Bank, where he had received his monthly salary of about $500. Last month, he said, he received only $46 as a partial payment from the Palestinian Authority.
 Public workers in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip received only partial salary payments from the Authority since Hamas came to power through elections in early 2006. Its victory led to an international embargo on direct financing of the Palestinian government. 
 European aid sent directly to non-security employees of the Authority, bypassing the government, helped ease some of the hardship, and aid in 2006 actually exceeded that of 2005. 
 But Israel and some Western countries resumed the cash flow to the Authority after Mr. Abbas fired the Hamas-led government of Mr. Haniya and installed an emergency cabinet headed by Salam Fayyad, a politically independent economist. 
 Mr. Fayyad said Wednesday that of the Authority's 150,000 employees, 31,000, most of them hired by Hamas since its election victory, would not receive salaries. Those not paid were 23,000 security force members and 8,000 civil servants considered loyal to Hamas. 
 The announcement drew criticism, even from some prominent members of Fatah.
 Mr. Haniya, who does not recognize the legitimacy of the Fayyad government, has put himself back in the international limelight, at least for now. Hamas brought about Mr. Johnston's release with a combination of pressure and negotiation; the members of the Army of Islam were once allies of Hamas, but the relationship soured in recent months.
 Mr. Johnston, who turned 45 in captivity, was delivered at dawn on Wednesday to Mr. Haniya's house and was taken to the British Consulate in Jerusalem about 10:20 a.m.
 At 5 p.m., Mr. Johnston gave a news conference, sounding remarkably relaxed, focused and good-humored after his ordeal. He appeared with a freshly shaved head, his usual style before he was kidnapped. Mr. Johnston said it was ''unimaginably good to be free'' and to do the ordinary things like ''getting a haircut and speaking to the people you love.'' 
 He had access to a radio during most of his time in captivity, and said he had gotten an ''extraordinary psychological boost'' from hearing about the international campaign for his release. Mr. Johnston said he was aware that Hamas was problematic in many ways, but he credited the organization with gaining his release. 
 Before Hamas took over Gaza, he said, his kidnappers had been ''cruising along, with no worries.'' After the takeover, ''the guards were suddenly worried,'' he said, and the whole atmosphere changed. Mr. Johnston said he was sure that ''if Hamas had not turned the heat on in a big way, I'd still be in that room.''
 In Israel, Parliament approved a cabinet shuffle involving ministers from Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's Kadima Party. Haim Ramon will serve as vice premier in place of Shimon Peres, who was elected to the largely ceremonial post of president, and the former interior minister, Ronnie Bar-On, will serve as finance minister, replacing Abraham Hirchson, who resigned because he was under investigation for allegations that he had been involved in embezzlement in a previous position. 
 Mr. Ramon previously resigned as justice minister and recently performed 120 hours of community service after he was convicted of forcibly kissing a female soldier. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Johnston, left, the BBC reporter who was abducted by the Army of Islam, with Ismail Haniya of Hamas, which brought about his release. (Photograph by Hatem Moussa/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); HAMAS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AL FATAH (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (84%); TERRORISM (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); ARMIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); RELIGION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (89%); JAVIER SOLANA (57%); DAVID MILIBAND (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007



96 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Bioengineered Milk? No Thanks

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Don't Cry Over rBST Milk,'' by Henry I. Miller (Op-Ed, June 29):
 Monsanto's genetically engineered hormone has not held up to scrutiny. When recombinant bovine growth hormone (rBGH; also known as rBST) is used, it elevates levels of insulin-like growth factor 1 in milk, which has been linked to increased risk of breast, prostate and other cancers. No wonder rBGH has been banned in Europe, Canada, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. 
 Seventy-four percent of Americans are concerned about negative long-term health effects from rBGH, while Starbucks, Publix and Safeway supermarkets and others have refused to use rBGH in many locations. 
 I dispute Dr. Miller's assertion that rBGH-injected cows can help reduce milk prices. The only national study on the subject contradicts his claims. Farms using rBGH are likely to use more grain, water, fuel, emit more greenhouse gases and spend more on feed and other inputs, offsetting any economic gains. 
 Dr. Miller's argument distracts from the real concerns over rBGH. Consumers are right to be wary; rBGH threatens to undermine the safety of nature's most perfect food. 
 Andrew Kimbrell
 Executive Director
 Center for Food Safety
 Washington, June 29, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Henry I. Miller argues that we should ''embrace'' the use of bovine growth hormone (rBST) in order to feed people more cheaply, save the environment and so on. He characterizes opponents of rBST as ''cynical,'' but I read Dr. Miller's arguments as cynical. 
 I have no idea if rBST is safe. But I do know that the dairy industry and its lobbyists do not want to require labeling milk produced with rBST. In fact, they are so intent on reducing information available to consumers that they are lobbying to prevent dairies from labeling their milk as ''rBST-free''! 
 There's good reason for cynicism. George Entenman
 Chapel Hill, N.C., June 29, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Henry I. Miller's Op-Ed article provides a welcome breath of fresh air. 
 Anticorporate activists have campaigned against this and other ag biotech products for years in denial of the demonstrated environmental, economic and health benefits. It is most welcome to see the facts finally given some exposure. 
 The data speak to a clear reality: If we are to meet the challenges of feeding and clothing a growing population in the 21st century without totally despoiling the planet, we will need all the tools we can find.
 Biotech is already making huge contributions toward meeting these challenges, and more to follow. There is in reality no greener approach than biotechnology. 
 L. Val Giddings
 Silver Spring, Md., June 29, 2007 
 The writer, a consultant, was vice president for agriculture of the Biotechnology Industry Organization, a trade group, from 1997 to 2005.
 To the Editor:
 I read in horror Henry I. Miller's latest recommendation for biotechnology in food. Is this really the conversation we want to be having about nutrition -- how to pump cows full of even more chemicals to keep up with our ravenous, fat-laden diets? 
 Dairy is the No. 1 source of saturated fat in the American diet. It is also full of cholesterol and hormones (natural and otherwise). Trying to make unhealthy foods cheaper by genetically modifying them is absolutely the wrong direction to be moving. 
 How about spending all that time, energy and money on something productive, like figuring out how to get fatty foods out of the American diet and replaced with whole real fruits, vegetables, beans and grains. 
 It would make my life as a dietitian a lot easier. Susan Levin
 Washington, June 29, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Urging more hormone injection of cows to increase milk production is backward. It suggests there's a milk shortage. The United States has long vastly overproduced milk. In recent years, the government accumulated a $1 billion stockpile of powdered milk from excess production. 
 Consumers want less use of drugs and chemicals in milk production, not more, as shown by skyrocketing organic milk purchases. Such hormones may increase the risk of breast, colon and gastrointestinal cancers, according to a University of Illinois study. 
 In cows, the hormones have been shown to increase lameness, udder infections and bone cancer. Europe and Canada outlawed using hormones on dairy cows because of such human and animal health concerns. 
 Increasing rBST milk would just move food production in the wrong direction. Bill Niman
 Nicolette Hahn Niman
 Bolinas, Calif., June 29, 2007
 The writers are cattle ranchers.
 To the Editor: 
 Dr. Henry I. Miller's article about the benefits of rBST is correct and thoughtful. Sustainable agricultural in the future, of necessity, will be largely sustainable intensive agriculture -- an agriculture that produces more (and often better) food, fiber and fuel on a smaller environmental footprint. 
 Dr. Miller has clearly stated the evidence that shows rBST to be part of sustainable agriculture: more milk that is identical to all other milk, produced by fewer cows with reduced environmental impacts. 
 As a society, we can make sensible choices to promote sustainable agriculture. Choosing rBST is one such sensible choice. Drew L. Kershen
 Norman, Okla., June 29, 2007
 The writer, a law professor, collaborated with Dr. Miller on a published article in Nature Biotechnology and on a book chapter several years before the published article in Nature Biotechnology.
 To the Editor:
 What parent or teacher has not noticed that girls are maturing far earlier than they used to? Years are being stolen from their childhoods. These added years will extend the time their bodies deal with adult hormones. 
 There is as yet no medical research showing the cost of several extra years of hormones flooding the system. Since this is a new phenomenon in our lives, we can't know the ultimate costs to our children.
 But for Henry I. Miller to write blithely of the benefits of rBST to farmers, and to Monsanto, without considering the effects on our children is shortsighted at best. If the Food and Drug Administration chooses to value benefits to business above the health of our children, we should at least be informed of its decision.
 Label the milk that is rBST produced. Place obvious labels, and then let parents choose the milk they deem best for their children. 
 Sally E. Carp
 Staten Island, June 29, 2007

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tamara Shopsin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY FARMING (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (89%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); FOOD LABELING (78%); MILK (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (77%); BIOLOGICAL FACTORS (77%); MEN'S HEALTH (76%); CROP RESEARCH (73%); AGRICULTURE (73%); WRITERS (73%); CLIMATE CHANGE (72%); PRODUCT SAFETY (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); GREENHOUSE GASES (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); POPULATION GROWTH (57%)

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (58%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (58%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007



97 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Global Warming and Your Wallet

 BODY:
At long last, Congress is showing a willingness to confront global warming. The Senate's recent approval of higher fuel economy standards is a constructive step and key lawmakers are promising comprehensive legislation this year that will, for the first time, limit the emission of greenhouse gases. 
 But for all the talk about warming, leading politicians have yet to educate their constituents (and their colleagues) about an unpleasant and inescapable truth: any serious effort to fight warming will require everyone to pay more for energy. According to most scientists, the long-term costs of doing nothing -- flooding, famine, drought -- would be even higher than the costs of acting now. But unless Americans understand and accept the trade-off -- higher prices today to avoid calamity later -- the requisite public support for real change is unlikely to build. 
 Energy is currently underpriced in part because its cost does not reflect the damage inflicted by fossil fuels. Underpricing leads to overconsumption. Worse, it leads to underinvestment in alternatives. As long as today's energy is relatively cheap, there is little incentive for private firms to develop new fuels and technologies. 
 When the market, on its own, fails to arrive at the proper price for goods and services, it's the job of government to correct the failure. There are two ways to do so: higher taxes and new regulation. 
 Over a decade ago, the Clinton administration floated the sound idea of a tax on the carbon content of various fuels, like coal and oil. A tax on carbon, the main greenhouse gas, would cause energy prices to rise, thereby curbing consumption and providing a powerful incentive to invest in alternatives. The revenue from the tax could be used, in part, to subsidize the higher energy costs for low-income Americans. But the idea went nowhere, and new taxes remain a political nonstarter, at least for now.
 The approach preferred by influential senators -- including Joseph Lieberman, John Warner and Jeff Bingaman -- as well as many businesses and environmental groups, is to develop a cap-and-trade system. The government would impose a cap on the overall amount of carbon that could be emitted and at the same time allow regulated firms, like utilities and oil refiners, to buy and sell the right to those limited emissions. Firms that could easily reduce their emissions could sell their allowances to firms that could not. 
 The big plus is that the nation would set an enforceable ceiling on carbon emissions, which would be lowered over time. Such a system has worked well to lower emissions of sulfur dioxide and other power plant pollutants and its proponents believe it can do the same for greenhouse gases.
 Because a trading system would not impose new taxes, some in Congress might try to portray it as a free ride. But it would work the same way higher taxes would work -- by raising the cost of fossil fuels. The higher prices would encourage efficiency and spur investment in a range of clean-energy technologies, without which major reductions would be almost impossible to achieve. 
 As the year rolls on, Congress will entertain several cap-and-trade bills: some more aggressive and costly, others offering various escape mechanisms should prices get too high. But one fundamental point must be kept in mind. We are now using the atmosphere as a free dumping ground for carbon emissions. Unless we -- industry and consumers -- are made to pay a significant price for doing so, we will never get anywhere. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (88%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); POLITICS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (75%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); POWER PLANTS (72%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (71%); FAMINE (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

PERSON: JEFF BINGAMAN (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); JOHN WARNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007



98 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: A Flight Plan for the Long Haul

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The chairman of Emirates airline --Sheik Ahmed bin Saeed al-Maktoum of the ruling family of Dubai -- has grand ambitions and a bankroll to match. 
 He has a huge pot of money to spend: $82 billion from his government, the airline and other financiers. He loves large planes, and he has ordered 55 superjumbo A380s, to create the biggest fleet of these double-decker planes in the world. And he wants to make Dubai, a sheikdom by the sea, the busiest airline hub in the world, overtaking London, New York and Singapore. 
 It would be easy to dismiss such spending as a rich man's folly, but Sheik Ahmed, so far, has delivered on his word. 
 He built Emirates from a two-plane operation, starting with $10 million in 1985, into the world's eighth-largest international carrier, with 105 planes, all wide-bodies. Emirates is the world's fastest-growing airline -- it will take delivery of one new Boeing or Airbus plane a month for the next five years -- and is one of the few to be consistently profitable, with ambitions to become larger still. 
 ''We've never seen anything like it before,'' said Robert Cullemore, a consultant at Aviation Economics, an advisory firm in London. ''We've never seen growth at this rate.''
 Of course, success for Sheik Ahmed is not just a matter of buying airplanes. He must compete with well-established carriers plying many of the same routes as Emirates, attract enough passengers to fill his vast fleet profitably and hope that the economies of the Middle East, including Dubai, and the emerging markets in Asia and the Indian subcontinent continue to grow at their fast pace. 
 But at the recent Paris air show, Sheik Ahmed seemed unfazed by those concerns. He met with the Airbus chief executive, Louis Gallois, and added eight more A380s, with a list price of $2.6 billion, to his fleet. He held a news conference to publicize Dubai's plan to spend $82 billion on aviation, including building a new $33 billion Dubai World Central International Airport that will have six runways and, at twice the size of Hong Kong island, will become the world's largest airport complex. 
 ''What we are witnessing today,'' Sheik Ahmed said at the time, ''is the rewriting of the world's aviation history and the beginning of a new era of global aviation.''
 Being oil rich helps. Emirates airline, said Howard A. Rubel, an aerospace analyst at Jefferies & Company, ''has got cash, clout and cachet.''
 ''What's surprising is the rapid emergence of the Emirates as a player,'' Mr. Rubel said. ''The economies of the Middle East are the fastest growing in the world. So what do they do? They buy planes. But five years ago it was like, 'Who are these guys?' ''
 Aviation has helped transform Dubai, a desert trading post with hardly a paved road just 50 years ago, from being fly-over country to a place where people are flying in -- some 25.6 million passengers landed there last year. 
 The plan for modern Dubai was created by Sheik Ahmed's late older brother and is now overseen by the current ruler, Sheik Ahmed's nephew, Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum. 
 Oil revenues have been declining as a percentage of Dubai's economy as the emirate prepares for the day that its reserves dwindle. Oil represents only 5 percent of Dubai's economy, which increasingly relies on revenue from superluxurious hotels, a growing financial center and serving as the regional headquarters for global brands. 
 For instance, Halliburton, the oil services company, is moving its headquarters from Houston to Dubai, and companies like Universal Studios, Nickelodeon, Microsoft and Cisco are also setting up offices. This prompted Emirates to offer flights from Dubai to Houston; it already has daily flights from New York. 
 Dubai is on a $365 billion building spree -- and development means more flights. Construction includes the Burj Dubai, which will be the world's tallest building, and the Mall of Arabia, the world's largest shopping mall at twice the size of the Mall of America. Dubai has one of the biggest indoor ski slopes, in a 25-story building in the desert. 
 Also under construction is Dubailand -- a leisure park larger than Monaco -- and the Dubai Waterfront, a complex of condos and stores that will be the size of Barbados.
 In an interview at the Bristol Hotel here, Sheik Ahmed, 49, said the airline's growth matched the frenzied development in the 1,500-square-mile emirate.
 ''When we started talking about expanding our airline,'' he said, ''people thought we were bluffing or that it would take 20 to 30 years.'' 
 ''But we've proven them wrong,'' he added, while puffing on an ever-present cigarette. 
 Emirates accounts for about a third of all of Airbus's orders for the A380. The next closest is Qantas, with 20. This fall, Emirates will order 100 midsize planes, either the Boeing 787 Dreamliner or the Airbus 350 XWB, in one of aviation's most closely watched contests. It also has 47 Boeing 777 long-haul jets. 
 For 19 of the airline's 20 years, it has been profitable, according to the airline as well as industry analysts. Although government owned, it receives no state subsidies, according to Sheik Ahmed. 
 The airline's profitability is aided by the fact that there are no taxes in Dubai and that the airline has a low cost structure and is not saddled with pension costs, the burden of short-haul routes or the debt structure of older carriers in the United States and Europe. 
 It also operates out of an airport that is open 24 hours a day. For several years now, Emirates' financial results have been independently audited. The airline earned $844 million on revenue of $8.1 billion for the fiscal year ended in March. 
 Moreover, since the ruling family is also the government, there is a minimum of red tape, and decisions can be carried out quickly. Sheik Ahmed noted that if there were not enough customs agents to process passengers, he could just get more. 
 The airline also benefits from an enviable location. It bases its strategy on the ability of its planes to reach any point in the world nonstop from Dubai, and it can connect any two cities with just one stop in the Middle East. Its hub is the biggest in the region. 
 ''Sheik Ahmed is making a huge bet, and we'll see how it works out,'' said Edmund S. Greenslet, publisher of The Airline Monitor, a trade publication. ''We won't know for another decade. His concept is to make Dubai the hub for travel between Asia and the West. But new planes are being designed to go from city to city nonstop and to make that paradigm obsolete. He's making a huge bet on a system that may not be as valid in the future as in the past.'' 
 Mr. Cullemore of Aviation Economics disagrees, saying Emirates' strategy is likely to pay off because there will be a need for another big hub to connect traffic between cities in Europe, Asia and Africa. 
 ''Look at the geography,'' Mr. Cullemore said. ''It's easy to have a knee-jerk reaction and be critical. But you've got capital cities in Africa and other cities in Europe that want to be connected to China, Southeast Asia and Japan.'' 
 The Emirates is a prime customer for both Boeing and Airbus, not only for the size of its orders but also because it buys high-margin interiors that please passengers and are extremely profitable for aircraft makers. Its first-class seats feature flat beds with built-in massage and personal mini-bars. Its in-flight entertainment includes 600 channels, e-mail connections and seat-to-seat telephones for in-flight chats. 
 ''One of the issues becoming obvious in the aviation industry isthat it is not about the United States anymore,'' said Jon B. Kutler, head of Admiralty Partners, an aerospace private equity firm in Los Angeles. ''It's an extraordinary shift in power. Airlines like the Emirates are pushing for the latest and greatest. They are making an obvious distinction with American carriers that are nickle-and-diming the passengers.'' 
 When asked whether Emirates can deliver on its promises, Mr. Kutler said: ''Sheik Ahmed has executed well to date. I'll give him the benefit of the doubt. '' 
 Sheik Ahmed, who was born in a traditional Arab fort and was educated in England and the United States, takes a long view of aviation, believing that the market will grow. 
 ''We are thinking always in a positive way,'' he said. ''We believe in the future. You talk to someone six to seven years back, and they said that if fuel reached $60 to $70 a barrel, no one would be flying.
 ''But now we are seeing prices at up to $75 and $77 a barrel, and we don't see any kind of a decline in passengers who are flying,'' he said. ''The demand is there and will continue to be there.'' 
 Sheik Ahmed said that he bet heavily on the A380 because as airports become more congested and landing slots are harder to come by, bigger planes like the A380 will allow long-haul carriers to keep up with demand by carrying more passengers on fewer planes. 
 [Dubai's ruling family further cemented its ties to Airbus with the announcement Thursday that it was investing $836 million to take a 3.12 percent stake in EADS, the parent of Airbus.]
 He is also keenly aware that Emirates has helped keep the A380 program viable. 
 ''If it weren't for Emirates,'' Sheik Ahmed said, ''they would have a serious problem with that aircraft.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photograph by Pierre Verdy/Agence France Press -- Getty Images)(pg. C1)
 Sheik Ahmed bin Saeed al-Maktoum, left, the chairman of Emirates, and Louis Gallois, the president of Airbus. The airline is the largest buyer of the A380 superjumbo jet, with 55 on order. (Photograph by H. Gousse/Airbus, via Reuters)(pg. C6) Chart: ''The Biggest Customer'' Airbus has 173 orders for its superjumbo A380. Here are the top nine buyers. (Source: Airbus) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); AIR SERVICE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (68%); EXECUTIVES (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

COMPANY: JEFFERIES & CO INC (60%); BOEING CO (58%); AIRBUS SAS (58%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%)

PERSON: LOUIS GALLOIS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); FRANCE (86%); UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007



99 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: Click Your Way to an Architect-Designed House

BYLINE: By AMY GUNDERSON

 BODY:
IN mid-May, Don DeFeo was overseeing the finishing touches on his Shoreham, Vt. summer home, a three-bedroom modernist design with cedar tongue-and-groove siding and a wall of windows to capture the view of 33 acres of rolling hills. In an area where most residences tended to be either ''100 years old or a new house that looks like a 100-year-old house,'' Mr. DeFeo said his home stood out for its contemporary design. But it wasn't one of a kind.
 Mr. DeFeo bought the plan from an architect who sells ready-made designs online. Two years ago, Mr. DeFeo, 59, a retired hotel general manager, tracked down a design from Gregory La Vardera, a Merchantville, N.J.-based architect who in addition to creating custom designs, sells stock plans for contemporary homes on the Internet. Mr. La Vardera agreed to modify the plan, called the Plat House, adding an extra bedroom, a laundry room, two sleeping porches and a garage -- changes that increased the living space by 1,000 square feet. 
 Mr. DeFeo said that changes to the $1,500 plan ran just under $10,000, but that his own research showed that a custom design for a similar home would have cost at least $40,000. And the fact that the Plat House had been built before only helped to convince him. ''There was one already completed in Arkansas,'' said Mr. DeFeo, ''and they had great pictures of the house online.''
 For buyers of home lots, blank canvases of sorts for building a dream vacation home, stock plans represent a way to save money and to streamline the road to construction, allowing buyers -- especially those who have bought lots in rural areas, where architects may be hard to find -- to get into that vacation home as soon as possible. The business isn't new; books and magazines have long featured home designs for purchase. What has changed is the accessibility of such plans on the Internet and the growth of stock plans, which some architects have turned to as a side activity to their custom designs.
 The second-home market is helping to fuel the trend. While design firms don't have hard numbers on the number of online plans bought for second homes, architects who sell their designs on the Web say that the second-home shopper is a sought-after customer. 
 The way architects present their online plans says it all. Donald A Gardner Architects, based in Greenville, S.C., divides up its plans into categories like country homes, vacation homes, resort homes and beach homes. Houseplans.com, based in Novato, Calif., classifies its home designs as beach, coastal and cottage styles, among others. 
 THREE of the most popular plan categories at Architectural House Plans, based in Sausalito, Calif., are cabins, small houses and country homes. And Ross Chapin Architects sells ready-made plans through its GoodFit division that are suited to a second-home client looking for a small, easy-to-maintain residence. ''They naturally capture the essence of cozy retreats,'' said Debbie Loudon, the public relations director for the company.
 While so-called online architects vary in the size and variety of their designs, as well as how much service they provide for modifications, they do have one thing in common: their plans cost just a fraction of what one would pay an architect for a custom design. 
 And for some buyers, the savings is motivation enough. When Ron and Beth Matsko were preparing to build what would eventually be their retirement home on Fripp Island, off the coast of South Carolina, paying for a custom design wasn't in the budget. ''We bought the ocean view lot and then spent 15 years paying that off. We didn't have an extra penny to throw around for architecture fees,'' said Mr. Matsko, who purchased an $800 plan from Donald A. Gardner Architects. The couple modified the three-bedroom design to increase the size of the dining room and expand the back deck. The changes were made by the builder. ''It wasn't hard to do,'' Mr. Matsko said. ''I just had to get a local engineer to bless the plans.''
 Modifications can often be done by the firm selling the design, but buyers can also find their own architect or builder to make changes. In addition to securing local permits prior to construction, homeowners may need to have their plans approved by an engineer or architect to insure that they are up to local codes. Even plans that have not been modified may still need to be changed to conform with local regulations. Homes built in California need to meet regulations for earthquakes, for instance, while a Colorado house may need to have its roof strengthened to handle snow. 
 These are concerns that an architect working on a custom home would automatically address. And it is this service and personalization that some architects say differentiates custom designs from stock plans. ''An architect can take the unique characteristics of a lot and maximize them,'' said Martin Sell, an architect in Juneau, Wis., and vice chairman of the Design-Build Committee at the American Institute of Architects, a trade group. 
 While Mr. Sell acknowledged that stock plans cost significantly less, he said that an architect creating a fully custom home can better guide clients into figuring out not only how they will use their living space but how much space they need. ''You might buy a 2,000-square-foot plan because you think that is what you need, but maybe you can really get away with 1,500 square feet in a house that is designed with more of an efficient living space,'' he said. ''The square footage can more than offset the cost of the architecture fees.''
 Motivations to choose a stock plan go beyond economics. For Jack Plumb, a co-owner of an auto repair shop who built a retreat tucked into a canyon in Salt Lake City, seeing a ready-made design five years ago helped him visualize what it was he really wanted in a vacation home. The design, from Ross Chapin, a Whidbey Island, Wash.-based architect, was for a 1,100 square-foot-house called the Three Gable House, with an unusual three-peaked roofline. ''I'm a visual guy. Turns out I was drawn to smaller homes and very pitched roofs,'' said Mr. Plumb, who paid $500 for the plans and filled the cottage with arts-and-crafts detailing and Stickley furniture.
 While Mr. Chapin's company does not offer modifications, many online design firms can make changes and provide more hand holding. Christian Gladu, co-owner of the Bungalow Company in Bend, Ore., admits that his stock plans cost more than other online offerings but says the extra cost is made up for in services like deciding where to put the house on the lot. Most of his firm's 54 designs cost $1,800, but with modifications the price can easily double or go higher. ''It's not unusual for an owner to pay $7,000 or $8,000 by the time we engineer a basement or garage. But plans can still be out the door in six weeks,'' he said. ''A custom house takes us three months.''
 Another firm, Robinson Residential Design, a design company in Regina, Saskatchewan, has a series of 14 stock home plans starting at $725. Simple changes are common and are made with an hourly charge. ''It is usually a bedroom that is not quite big enough, or a window is moved to get a better view,'' said Rob Young, Robinson's cottage division manager, noting that the firm's online business is ''predominantly for vacation-type homes.''
 Donald A. Gardner Architects has about 850 designs averaging $1,000. Prices for modifications vary; a basic mirror image of the plan adds $150. Architectural House Plans has 250 separate design plans averaging $1,000 to $2,000, and buyers will need to seek out their own architects or find builders to make changes. 
 Larry Slick did just that in January when he purchased a $770 plan from Architectural House Plans, complete with a tower that would offer views of the lights of Duluth, Minn., just across Lake Superior. The design for his vacation home in Superior, Wis., needed to be changed to meet local regulations on building height, and he wanted larger bedrooms. He arranged for a draftsman to makes changes to the plans, which came in an electronic file. ''He just redrew it on his computer,'' said Mr. Slick, adding that the changes took less than two weeks. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: FLOOR PLANS ONLINE Christian Gladu of the Bungalow Company. (Photograph by Lori Cain for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
OFF THE SHELF Don DeFeo outside his home in Vermont. The design is by Gregory La Vardera of New Jersey, who sells plans online. (Photograph by Caleb Kenna for The New York Times)(pg. F6)
 THREE GABLES Jack Plumb in front of his cottage-like home in Salt Lake City, designed by Ross Chapin Architects. The Bartlett Cottage, below left, is another design by that firm. (Photograph by Tom Smart for The New York Times)(pg. F6) Diagram: (Diagram by Ross Chapin Architects)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); UTAH, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007



100 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Documents Show KPMG Secretly Met Prosecutors

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
When top lawyers for the accounting firm KPMG sat down in secret with federal prosecutors to plead with them not to indict the firm in connection with its work on questionable tax shelters, they faced a life-or-death battle.
 ''Enron was only $1 billion; this fraud is much bigger,'' one of the prosecutors, Justin Weddle, told a senior lawyer for KPMG during a meeting in Manhattan in March 2005, according to recently released notes taken by one of the KPMG lawyers, Joseph Barloon of Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom.
 The stakes could not have been higher. An indictment would most likely have meant the firm's demise, as it did with Enron's accounting firm, Arthur Andersen, in 2002. KPMG in fact narrowly averted indictment after agreeing to pay a $456 million fine, admit wrongdoing and cooperate with a Justice Department investigation into its former employees, a case that continues to be closely watched by the legal community.
 Now Mr. Barloon's notes of meetings from March through June 2005, which were made public in June in connection with the related criminal trial of 16 former KPMG tax employees, provide a rare and detailed look inside the closed-door process of those dealings. 
 ''We almost never get a front-row seat to a negotiation between a major multinational company and the United States government,'' said Stephanie Martz, director of the White Collar Crime Project.
 The previously unseen notes convey the twists and turns of a legal drama, for sure -- but for some criminal defense lawyers, their language bolsters the contention that the prosecution of KPMG was particularly zealous. 
 KPMG fulfilled a two-year deferred prosecution agreement with the government last December and avoided criminal charges, but the effects of its ordeal continue. 
 The handling of the case has significant implications for the prosecution of its former employees, as well as for a criminal case against Deutsche Bank, which is under federal investigation into its tax shelter work. No charges have been filed against it. 
 The federal judge overseeing the prosecution of the former KPMG employees on criminal tax shelter charges has said that the government was coercive and violated the constitutional rights of the defendants by pressing KPMG to cut off payment of their legal fees as a condition of avoiding indictment itself.
 But to other legal observers, the notes of the discussions also highlight the gray areas between coercion and cooperation that typify corporate criminal investigations.
 ''There's a lot of posturing going on on both sides,'' said Peter Henning, a former lawyer in the Justice Department's criminal fraud division, after reviewing the notes. ''The government was threatening to put KPMG out of business, but I don't think they were serious.'' 
 The first meeting between KPMG and the prosecution described in the notes took place on March 2, 2005, at the Manhattan office of federal prosecutors for the Southern District of New York. 
 At that time, the government was furious with KPMG. The firm had effectively withheld information from Congressional and Internal Revenue Service investigators who were scrutinizing tax shelters; it had earlier resisted government efforts to compel it to turn over documents. 
 Mr. Barloon, the lawyer for KPMG who took the notes, wrote that David Kelley, the lead prosecutor, described the meeting as ''a settlement discussion,'' saying early on that ''KPMG is in a grave situation.'' 
 Mr. Kelley had successfully prosecuted Martha Stewart and Bernard Ebbers of WorldCom. Now he had his sights on KPMG.
 Robert Bennett, atop criminal defenselawyer for Skadden Arps who represented KPMG, made an argument he would repeat to prosecutors over the next several months: that bringing charges against the firm or even deferring charges through a deferred-prosecution agreement would create ''a death spiral'' for KPMG and the American economy. 
 When another federal prosecutor, Shirah Neiman, asked Eugene O'Kelly, the KPMG chairman at the time, how much the firm was prepared to pay as a fine, Mr. O'Kelly said KPMG had set aside $100 million, or $40,000 of each partner's average $570,000 annual salary. Mr. O'Kelly then outlined a proposal, short on details, in which KPMG would ''acknowledge wrongdoing by former partners,'' pay an unspecified fine, restrict its tax practice and cooperate with investigators.
 The prosecution left the room for 10 minutes and returned unimpressed. Mr. Kelley, the lead prosecutor, said that he was concerned that a previous change at KPMG, including a shake-up of its top ranks, ''doesn't scrub the culture'' and ''is more cosmetic than substantive.''
 ''You keep using the word 'acknowledge,' '' Mr. Kelley said. ''I don't like acknowledge, I like admission of guilt.''
 Mr. Kelley, who joined a private law firm, Cahill Gordon & Reindel in September 2005, said in a brief telephone interview that ''I wouldn't comment on any of those discussions, but recognize that there is no one in the room taking verbatim transcripts of my discussion, and consequently it would be subject to their own interpretation.'' 
 Mr. Bennett declined comment. Mr. Barloon did not return phone calls seeking comment. 
 On March 18, KPMG lawyers sat down before prosecutors with their own statement of facts. At the meeting, Mr. Kelley was unimpressed, saying, according to Mr. Barloon's notes, ''you look on the sword but don't fall on the sword.'' Ms. Neiman criticized it as full of ''appalling euphemisms'' and as ''soft and mushy.'' 
 There was a reason for the language. Mr. Bennett, the top Skadden lawyer, said during the meeting that ''we did not know all the facts behind any possible wrongdoing because we did not conduct an internal investigation.'' The government, concerned about KPMG's actions in the past, had pressed KPMG not to conduct its own internal inquiry. 
 Two days later, on March 22, 2005, Mr. Barloon, the Skadden lawyer for KPMG, met with Mr. Weddle. 
 ''I explained that we had modeled our statement on the statements in other agreements,'' Mr. Barloon's notes say, adding, ''he wasn't expecting an admission of guilt, was he?'' Mr. Barloon's notes cite Mr. Weddle as saying, ''If you don't want to draw inferences and make a strong statement, the government will do it for you. It's called an indictment.'' 
 On March 19, 2005, Joseph Loonan, an internal KPMG lawyer, sent an e-mail message to Mr. Barloon, the Skadden lawyer, saying that the statement of facts that prosecutors wanted KPMG to use as its admission ''is not of facts but of conclusions based on some facts, distortions of facts and adverse inferences.''
 Calling the proposed statement ''false, misleading and unsupportable,'' Mr. Loonan urged a strategy of fighting back and cited a trademark line by the singer and songwriter Kris Kristofferson, ''Freedom's just another word for nothing left to lose.''
 Ms. Martz, who has criticized what she calls government coerciveness in the case, said that ''it remains shocking to me that the Southern District would basically push a statement of fact down KPMG's throat without the company knowing itself whether everything in it is accurate.''
 By April, the situation had gotten worse for KPMG. In an April 26, 2005, meeting with KPMG lawyers, Mr. Kelley now argued that ''in the big accounting fraud cases where they play with the books, they are doing a legitimate service wrongly,'' according to Mr. Barloon's notes. ''Here this is quite different because the very service being provided wascorrupt and criminal.'' 
 A spokeswoman for the Southern District of New York declined to comment yesterday on the notes. A KPMG spokeswoman would say only that ''KPMG reached an agreement with the government nearly two years ago to resolve this matter.''
 On June 13, 2005, KPMG lawyers and executives met with the deputy attorney general, James B. Comey, and federal prosecutors. It was a highly unusual meeting, Mr. Comey said, according to the notes, adding that he had never met with outside lawyers for a firm facing indictment.
 Mr. Barloon's notes of that meeting show that Mr. Bennett began by quietly but intensely asking Mr. Comey not to indict KPMG. ''If we go under, that will disrupt not only KPMG clients but also the national economy,'' Mr. Bennett argued. 
 Mr. Comey countered that the wrongdoing at KPMG ''went everywhere -- up, down, sideways -- at least in the tax business,'' and asked Mr. Bennett if the firm had considering pleading guilty and spinning off its tax practice. Mr. Bennett said that the firm had considered but rejected such an idea. 
 Rod Rosenstein, the deputy assistant attorney general, who was at the meeting, asked whether the Justice Department was ''setting a precedent that we can't prosecute somebody if they come and clean everything up.'' 
 But earlier in the meeting, Mr. Bennett said that ''what was really precedent-setting about the case was the conditioning of the payment of legal fees on cooperation. We said we'd pressure -- although we didn't use that word -- our employees to cooperate.''
 The notes quote him later as saying ''what played out'' was ''a level of cooperation that is rarely done.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); LAWYERS (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (77%); JUDGES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%)

COMPANY: KPMG (95%); SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (91%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (52%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (52%); DBK (FRA) (52%); DBK (BIT) (52%); DBETN (JSE) (52%); DBA (ASX) (52%); DB (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (95%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (95%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007



101 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 5139 words

HEADLINE: Museum and Gallery Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 'RESISTANCE IS ...' The well-trafficked ''Summer of Love: Art of the Psychedelic Era'' exhibition at the Whitney Museum of American Art explores the themes of liberation and dissent in art and society in the 1960s. Expanding on this focus is ''Resistance Is ...,'' a companion show of two dozen artworks about social unrest and upheaval. It is a rather earnest display, but smart, engaging and nicely put together by the curator Tina Kukielski, combining a pleasing diversity of artists, mediums and styles. Several works are documentary photographs of social disobedience, public demonstrations and political action, among them now-famous images by Richard Avedon; Gordon Parks (above, his photograph of Black Panthers in San Francisco in 1969); Larry Fink; Gilles Peress; and Garry Winogrand. Eerily pertinent is one of Mr. Peress's hastily grabbed snapshots of protest posters outside the United States Embassy in Tehran in 1979. It could have been taken just last week. 
Other artists recapitulate images from documentary photography, television or film, exploring the boundaries of art and political action with a mind toward merging them. There is Andy Warhol's devastating 1964 screen print of a newspaper photograph of race riots in Birmingham, Ala., but also more urgent, contemporary work like Josephine Meckseper's video splicing together footage of recent political demonstrations in New York overlaid with an ominous-sounding voice intoning obedience. Timing is everything, and this gathering of works couldn't look or feel more apposite. (Through Sept. 2, Whitney Museum of American Art, 800-944-8639, whitney.org.) BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE GREAT COVER-UP: AMERICAN RUGS ON BEDS, TABLES AND FLOORS,' through Sept. 9. The more than 60 rugs in this extraordinary show count among the best pictorial art of 19th- and early-20th-century America, which means that quite a few of the women who made them qualify as great, if unidentified, artists. Densely textured, gloriously colored, boldly scaled and exuberantly frontal, they were made between 1800 and 1950 and provide something of a history of the American handmade rug, from bed to floor, and from mostly yarn-sewn to the wildly popular hooking technique. Their intuitive intelligence, where space and composition are concerned, proves once more that modern form is not a modern invention and flattens the always provisional distinction between art and craft. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)
 AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY: 'GOLD,' through Aug. 19. Having delved into pearls, diamonds and amber, the museum applies its time-tested show-and-tell formula to the premier precious natural material, gold. This astounding array of art, artifacts and natural samples -- larded with fascinating facts and tales -- ranges from prehistoric times to the present. Stops along the way include pre-Columbian empires, sunken treasure, Bangladesh dowry rituals and the moon landing. It turns out that gold comes from the earth in forms as beautiful as anything man has thought to do with it, but that gold ingots have a brute force all their own. You are certain to emerge with mind boggled and eyes dazzled. Central Park West and 79th Street, (212) 769-5100, amnh.org. (Smith)BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'KINDRED SPIRITS: ASHER B. DURAND AND THE AMERICAN LANDSCAPE,' through July 29. This show of about 60 works by Durand has as its centerpiece ''Kindred Spirits'' (1849), a tribute to the landscapist Thomas Cole and his friend the poet and journalist William Cullen Bryant. A founder of the Hudson River School, Durand (1796-1886) favored the realistic approach to landscape. He explored forest interiors with close attention to the ways of trees, foliage and rocks and ground cover in smaller works, while his larger and more elaborate exhibition pictures, influenced by European masters, are Arcadian visions suffused with light, color and atmospheric perspective. The show reveals Durand's strong sense of artistic mission and his potent role in shaping the aesthetic of 19th-century America. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Grace Glueck)COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'DESIGN LIFE NOW: NATIONAL DESIGN TRIENNIAL 2006,' through July 29. Like its two predecessors, this ambitious show illuminates the volatile, contradictory and ever-expanding field of design, but fails to call it to order. The inclusions range from genius to schlock, delightful to dispiriting. They cover medical innovation, military hardware, completely frivolous reiterations of received ideas (far too many of which trace to Surrealism), sundry Web sites and magazines, haute couture, architecture and recycling -- more varieties of recycling than you can easily count. The show coalesces into deliberately orchestrated skirmishes between conflicting principles and entities: corporate and private, decorative and essential. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400, ndm.si.edu. (Smith) GREY ART GALLERY: 'BEYOND THE WHITE CUBE: A RETROSPECTIVE OF BRIAN O'DOHERTY/PATRICK IRELAND,' through July 14. Starting in the mid-1960s and in concert with the most influential thinkers of the period (Roland Barthes, Marcel Duchamp and Susan Sontag), Brian O'Doherty made Conceptual art in a Minimalist vein. This show displays his sculptures, drawings, performance videos, paintings and rope drawings, which could easily be called installations. It's a must-see show for anyone who wants to understand the conceptual frameworks that underpin so much of today's most significant installation and performance art. 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart/. (Bridget L. Goodbody)GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'DIVISIONISM/NEO-IMPRESSIONISM: ARCADIA AND ANARCHY,' through Aug. 6. Ultimately this rare, compressed, mercurial exhibition of work by the Italian Divisionists of the 1890s is long on history and short on truly convincing paintings. The inclusion of works by Seurat and his French, Dutch and Belgian followers clarifies how the Italians pushed Pointillism, Seurat's invention, in all directions: toward realism, academic classicism, Symbolism, class consciousness and even Impressionism. The show opens a new, albeit small, window on the genesis of Modernism beyond the French canon. If many of the works are period pieces, they are also immensely appealing, big-hearted and physically robust period pieces. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith) INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'BIOGRAPHICAL LANDSCAPE: THE PHOTOGRAPHY OF STEPHEN SHORE, 1969-1979,' through Sept. 9. In 1971 the Metropolitan Museum of Art gave Stephen Shore its second-ever exhibition by a living photographer. (Alfred Stieglitz had the first.) He was 23 when it opened. What he did makes up most of this wonderful show. Mr. Shore has reprinted the photographs digitally, with rejuvenated colors as fresh and subtle as the day the pictures were shot. The work's laconic eloquence speaks of an era and a nation. Its wit and affection add buoyancy to scenes of threadbare America from a moment when the country was depressed by war and years of civil unrest. Its formal rigor makes an uncanny order out of images that, at first glance, look like no place or nothing. Look again. His show reminds us of a period when cutting-edge American art and the tradition of straight, documentary photography got together. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at West 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. 
 (Michael Kimmelman)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'LET YOUR MOTTO BE RESISTANCE: AFRICAN AMERICAN PORTRAITS,' through Sept. 9. This show of photographic portraits is a praise-song in pictures, a shout-out to history. It's also a fancy-dress inaugural party for the yet-to-be-built National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington. It tends to be a little too fancy, too heavy on glitz, too short on grit. Still, what a party it is, with a Who's Who of charismatic black statesmen, from Frederick Douglass to Malcolm X, and with Leontyne Price, Mahalia Jackson and the Supremes sharing a stage. (See above.) (Holland Cotter)
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: DATELINE: ISRAEL: 'NEW PHOTOGRAPHY AND VIDEO ART,' through Aug. 5. Roughly every decade, the Jewish Museum offers a survey of contemporary art from and about Israel. This year non-Israeli artists from Europe and the United States -- and a single artist from Palestine -- have been added to the mix. There's some very good work here, though, on the whole, the show grapples with crucial political issues in an indirect way. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, jewishmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'IMPRESSIONIST AND EARLY MODERN PAINTINGS: THE CLARK BROTHERS COLLECT,' through Aug. 19. The Met examines the lives and collecting habits of two feuding brothers, heirs to the Singer sewing machine fortune, who were among the leading 20th-century art patrons. Sterling Clark was founder of the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute in Williamstown, Mass. His younger brother Stephen was a trustee of both the Met and the Museum of Modern Art (and established the National Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y.) The brothers shared a love of Renoir, Degas and Americans like Winslow Homer, but Sterling ''drew the line'' at Cezanne and considered Matisse and Picasso ''bad painters and fakers.'' Tracking their taste and how they dispersed their collections is interesting -- and perhaps instructive for contemporary collectors. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Martha Schwendener)
 THE MET: 'COAXING THE SPIRITS TO DANCE,' through Dec. 2. How the Papuans practiced their beliefs on the remote Pacific island of New Guinea in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, when they still had little contact with the West, is the complex and fascinating story told in this exhibition of some 60 objects and 30 rare photographs of the works on site or in actual use. The carved and painted ''spirit boards'' made throughout the gulf region, on the south coast of present-day Papua New Guinea, are probably the most easily recognized of the area's traditional artworks. Their central designs, passed down from fathers to sons and through marriages, typically represent a bush or river spirit, with a heavily stylized face and perhaps a small body, surrounded by various totemic symbols. More daring in concept are the masks used in ritual dances. Papuan art may not be as varied or exciting as that of many African or Amerind peoples, but it records a vibrant community. (See above.) (Glueck) THE MET: 'HIDDEN IN PLAIN SIGHT: CONTEMPORARY PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE COLLECTION,' through Sept. 3. A small but potent exhibition of contemporary photographs from the museum's collection that opens with an epigraph by Henry David Thoreau: ''The question is not what you look at but what you see.'' Artists here find beauty in the everyday and mundane, from Walker Evans's late series of Polaroids to Stephen Shore's landscapes and Rachel Harrison's photograph of a house in Perth Amboy, N.J., where thousands believed that they saw the face of the Virgin Mary on a second-floor window. Although this is a small show -- only a few dozen photographs installed in two rooms -- it could take you longer to absorb than a much larger exhibition. It is not just about viewing photographs, after all, but about learning a new way to look at the world. (See above.) (Martha Schwendener)* THE MET: 'INCISIVE IMAGES: IVORY AND BOXWOOD CARVINGS,' through Nov. 25. This extraordinary show, drawn almost entirely from the Met's vaults, presents an array of nearly 100 carved figures, crucifixes, reliefs, containers, hand-held weapons and the occasional piece of furniture. It is an engrossing hive of religious fervor, Classical erudition (and occasional naughtiness), style shifts and multicultural cross-currents. And among the many feats of drop-dead artistic skill are several of traffic-stopping caliber. Don't miss it. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE MET: 'JOURNEYS: MAPPING THE EARTH AND MIND IN CHINESE ART,' through Aug. 26. Every six months or so, the Met rotates all the work in its Chinese painting galleries to preserve the delicate silks and papers, and each time, the curator in charge, Maxwell K. Hearn, produces a new and illuminating thematic exhibition, as is the case with ''Journeys.'' Outward-bound and inward-bound are the directions taken by Chinese landscape painting, and it carries us on some fascinating voyages in a show that mixes classical and contemporary art. (See above.) (Cotter) THE MET: NEO RAUCH AT THE MET: PARA, through Oct. 14. The figurative style of the leader of the Leipzig School is never less than ambitious, but here it looks almost fatally retro, as if the context of the Met had made the painter's mind turn to thoughts of browned-out colors; characters of a Romantic, 19th-century mien; and settings that often suggest garrets or hunting lodges. The result is an exhibition that looks too much at home in the museum and sells Mr. Rauch's talent short, but is still one that should be seen. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE MET: 'POIRET: KING OF FASHION,' through Aug. 5. A revolutionary in revolutionary times, the fashion designer and cultural dynamo Paul Poiret introduced unstructured garments that freed women from corsets in 1906, the year before Picasso committed his decidedly uninhibited (and unstaid) ''Demoiselles d'Avignon'' to canvas. But the modern painter whom Poiret most resembles, in his love of the exotic, his brilliant use of color and pattern and his penchant for simplified, almost rudimentary form, is Matisse. This rare exhibition -- the latest effort from the Met's esteemed Costume Institute -- does his sartorial genius justice with a spare installation rendered radiant by hand-painted silk backdrops of the leafy parks, chic theaters and luxurious drawing rooms of Paris. (See above.) (Smith)* THE MET: 'ONE OF A KIND: THE STUDIO CRAFT MOVEMENT,' through Sept. 3. Focusing on the postwar development of artist-craftsmen who not only conceive and design their own objects but have a direct hand in making them, this display of furniture, glass, ceramics, metalwork, jewelry and fiber includes funny, quirky, provocative and sometimes gorgeous things. Among its stars are a witty bust by the California funk ceramicist Robert Arneson (1920-92), portraying the mother of the 16th-century painter and printmaker Albrecht Durer; John Cederquist's elegant cabinet concealed behind a trompe l'oeil door painted and veneered to look like a battered wooden packing case with a rowdy wave tearing through it; and Bonnie Seeman's fetching ceramic coffeepot and tray, whose mock cabbage leaves and rhubarb stalks evoke the genteel tradition of 18th-century British and continental china, but can also be read as human rather than vegetative tissue. Traditionalists, too, have their place in this show, with the wood workers Wharton Esherick and Sam Maloof represented by elegantly simple renditions in the furniture line; respectively, a music stand and a Shaker-like settee. (See above.) (Glueck)THE MET: 'FRANK STELLA: PAINTING INTO ARCHITECTURE,' through July 29. Crammed into a gallery that feels like an obstacle course, this exhibition spans 43 years with 25 paintings, reliefs, drawings and architectural models, all with the goal of tracing an evolution that has not yet occurred. Taking up most of the space are enlarged versions of models that are considered sculptures -- and that look as if they date from the early 1960s. The main draws are the examples of the paintings and reliefs that are the basis of Mr. Stella's importance as an artist. (See above.) (Smith)THE MET: 'FRANK STELLA ON THE ROOF,' through Oct. 28. Two large Pop Art sculptures, two architectural models and a model enlarged into a sculpture-installation piece confirm that one of the greatest American artists of the postwar era doesn't do himself or anyone else any favors when he strays from the wall to work fully in the round. The results have a certain Stella-like verve but are otherwise generic. (See above.) (Smith)MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'RICHARD SERRA SCULPTURE: 40 YEARS,' through Sept. 10. This retrospective is a landmark by a titan of sculpture. At 67, Mr. Serra is still nudging the language of abstraction, constructing ever more awesome mazes of looming Cor-Ten steel. His ''Torqued Ellipses'' and ''Torqued Toruses'' and other recent works like ''Band'' and ''Sequence'' have their origins in pieces he did 40 years ago in rubber and lead, as this retrospective handsomely affirms, but these are nonetheless unprecedented variations on the theme of dumbfounding spirals and loops. These shapes and experiences are new. That's about the best, and the rarest, compliment you can give to any artist. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Kimmelman)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'NEW YORK RISES: PHOTOGRAPHS BY EUGENE DE SALIGNAC,' through Oct. 28. This exhibition makes a case for adding Eugene de Salignac, the official photographer for the New York City Department of Bridges, Plant and Structures from 1903 to 1934, to the canon of American photographers whose images are forever linked with the city. He captured the Williamsburg, Manhattan and Queensboro Bridges just as construction was completed and the subways tracks were being laid. In some of his moving, eye-catching images, he exhibits his appreciation for New York's work force. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1673, mcny.org. (Goodbody)
 THE NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN: 'PARADISE IN PRINT,' through Aug. 19. Watercolors, folio editions, rare books and prints from the 18th through the mid-20th centuries reveal how closely linked natural and human histories have been in the Caribbean over the last 500 years. Engravings and lithographs of cash crops like coffee, chocolate, tobacco and sugar (nicknamed ''green gold'') are accompanied by images from Mark Catesby's 18th-century natural history, which served as the model for Audubon's ''Birds of America''; images of African slaves and colonialists; and Nikolaus Joseph Jacquin's extraordinary ''Selectarum Stirpium Americanarum Historia,'' published around 1780 in Vienna, and illustrated with watercolors painted directly into the book. (It was purchased for the botanical garden by Andrew Carnegie.) Bronx River Parkway and Fordham Road, Bedford Park, (718) 817-8616, nybg.org. (Schwendener)
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY: 'NEW YORK DIVIDED: SLAVERY AND THE CIVIL WAR,' through Sept. 3. New York has a cosmopolitan pride in itself, but as this exhibition shows, it is not always well deserved. Even after slavery belatedly came to an end in New York State in 1827, New York City was a ''hotbed of pro-slavery politics,'' inspired by close commercial links with the South and the international cotton trade. For every instance of abolitionist activity, there is another in which slavery is defended or supported. This powerful exhibition, focused on the years between Emancipation and Reconstruction, and featuring documents, videos, audio dramatizations, books, cartoons and historic objects, shows how divided the city was. But it also draws attention to the importance of black abolitionists and to the forces that countered slavery's horrific heritage. It brings to a close the Historical Society's multiyear exploration of slavery in New York. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org. 
 (Edward Rothstein)
 WADSWORTH ATHENEUM MUSEUM OF ART: 'FAITH AND FORTUNE: FIVE CENTURIES OF EUROPEAN MASTERWORKS,' through Dec. 9. Celebrating the return of its famous Renaissance, Baroque and Rococo paintings and objects of art from a three-year national tour, the Wadsworth has arranged a feast of a show. One of the most appealing things about this gathering of some 400 treasures is the mix, with knockout paintings keeping period company with small sculptures, elaborate table furnishings, decorative platters, Meissen knockoffs of Chinese pottery, a porcelain birdcage and vases and such. Strolling through the galleries, you'll find treasures like ''Saint Francis of Assisi in Ecstasy'' (about 1594-95), said to be the first authentic Caravaggio in an American museum; Fra Angelico's poignant, poetic fragment ''Head of an Angel'' (about 1455-50); and Francisco de Zurbaran's fearsome portrayal of a dead martyr, ''Saint Serapion'' (1628). But the piece de resistance is an entire gallery made into an art and curio cabinet, with a planned clutter of brilliant objects that play to a viewer's inner acquisitor: exotic shells mounted in gold; an extraordinary Baroque ivory carving (presumed to be before 1650) of Adam and Eve; an automatic tabletop clock (about 1619) with a standing lion that could roll its eyes, open its jaws and stick out its tongue when the hours struck. Dazzlement prevails. 600 Main Street, Hartford, (860) 278-2670, wadsworthatheneum.org. (Grace Glueck)WHITNEY MUSEUM AT ALTRIA: MATTHEW BRANNON, 'WHERE WERE WE,' through Aug. 26. Matthew Brannon brings together art, poetry and advertising in a series of letterpress prints that hark back to 1950s and 1960s textile designs by Astrid Sampe and Marimekko. Texts written by the artist and accompanying the images read like song lyrics crossed with Conceptual Art and Language Poetry (which emphasized experimentalism and reader interaction). Consumption and excess are frequent references, as well as how art, design and fashion feed these modern yet primordial urges and desires. 120 Park Avenue, at 42nd Street, (917) 663-2453, whitney.org. (Schwendener)WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'LINCOLN KIRSTEIN,' through Aug. 27. In the middle of the last century Lincoln Kirstein particularly relished attacking the Museum of Modern Art. Pure abstraction was ridiculous, he thought. It had no standards. Against Mondrian and Pollock, he endorsed, among others, the artists in this show. They are the sculptors Elie Nadelman and Gaston Lachaise and the painters Paul Cadmus, who was Kirstein's brother-in-law, Walker Evans and Pavel Tchelitchew. With the exception of Evans, Kirstein's taste clearly hasn't won the day, but it's never bad to re-examine received opinions or to be reminded of a generous advocate. 945 Madison Avenue at 75th Street, (212) 570-3600. (Kimmelman)'RUDOLF STINGEL,' through Oct. 14. The work of this Italian-born artist, who is based in New York, seduces the eye while also upending most notions of what, exactly, constitutes a painting, how it should be made and by whom. His favored materials include carpet and Styrofoam, as well as paint on canvas. His style swings between abstract purity and Photo-Realism. His grandly spare survey has a mirrored floor and a foil-covered room, lighted by a crystal chandelier, that visitors may mark on and that he may or may not later appropriate as a painting. As enthralling as it is perturbing, his work combines beauty, humor and a democratic slant with a rigorous sense of economy. It also forms one of the best-looking exhibitions lately seen at the Whitney. (See above.) (Smith)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'SUMMER OF LOVE: ART OF THE PSYCHEDELIC ERA,' through Sept. 16. Tear gas, pot and patchouli were the scents of the 1960s. You can almost detect the last two wafting through this two-floor display of rock posters, light shows, photographs and paintings. But the burn of tear gas, with the association of political emergency it brings, is missing in a show that remembers a lot, but forgets much more, about what was happening 40 years ago, when America was losing its mind to save its soul. (See above.) (Cotter) 
 Galleries: SoHo
 PETER FISCHLI AND DAVIS WEISS: BOOKS, EDITIONS AND THE LIKE Drawn primarily from the artists' archives, and including posters, multiples, books and layouts of books as well as videos -- among them ''The Way Things Go,'' their great chain-reaction-in-a-studio -- this exhibition amounts to a rather complete if highly distilled retrospective of their consistently down-to-earth Duchampian view of life and art. Swiss Institute, 495 Broadway, near Broome Street, SoHo, (212) 925-2035, through July 14. (Smith)
 'GEGO, BETWEEN TRANSPARENCY AND THE INVISIBLE' The artist named Gego was born Gertrud Goldschmidt in Germany in 1912, but lived most of her life in Venezuela, where she produced netlike drawings in ink and watercolor and what she called ''drawings without paper'': semi-geometric, see-through, two- and three-dimensional pieces of twisted and knotted wires, suspended in space. Whether you think of them as grids gone haywire or as rational forms charged with emotion, they're out of this world, and this small survey gives a good sense of what is distinctive and radical about Gego's art. The Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org, through July 21. 
 (Cotter) 
 Galleries: Chelsea
 EZRA STOLLER : BUILDINGS OF NEW YORK Ezra Stoller (1915-2004) made a living photographing architecture, but he didn't consider himself an artist. ''I can draw out the strengths in a work that has strength,'' he once said, ''but I never claimed my work is art. The art is the architecture.'' You feel inclined to disagree when looking at his stunning black-and-white photographs of mid-20th-century buildings. For one thing, Stoller fits nicely into a trajectory of architecturally centered photography that wasn't always considered ''art'' (and includes the work of luminaries like Eugene Atget and Margaret Bourke-White). Stoller's photographs are also filled with sly details that emphasize the inevitable trudge of history and the modern overtaking the traditional and antique. Danziger Projects, 521 West 26th Street, through July 20. (Schwendener)
 DAN TOROP: SNOWBOUND Last summer Dan Torop and Justine Kurland organized an exhibition of photographs titled ''A Rabbit as King of the Ghosts'' that described the photographer as ''a seeker of mystery'' and photography as an act that ''casts a spell that turns the banal into the supernatural.'' This summer Mr. Torop delivers a similar manifesto with his own photographs. Many were taken in northern Iceland and depict a fairy-tale landscape of glaciers, water, mist and celestial effects. A few are like greeting-card images that counter the irony-laden and conceptually rigorous forms of photography that have dominated in the last few decades. Mr. Torop's dreamy visions register more like a challenge: What, you don't believe in magic? Derek Eller, 615 West 27th Street, through July 13. (Schwendener)
 Galleries: Other
 MARTIN KIPPENBERGER: 'PREIS BILDER' Seven canvases from two series of paintings rarely exhibited in this country play on the double German meaning of preis (price and prize), some variation of which appears on each surface. They show this famous bad-boy sculptor conveying his usual sarcasm in surprisingly beautiful terms that couldn't get much flatter. Hard-edged and brushy techniques contrast the main tactics of formalist painting while converting the Modernist grid into designs redolent of drapery and checked tablecloths. A preponderance of hot pink argues for the pleasure principle. 1018 Art, 1018 Madison Avenue, near 78th Street, (212) 537-0453, 1018art.net, through July 27. (Smith) 
 SOL LEWITT: DRAWING SERIES ... If the greatness of Sol LeWitt, the Minimal-Conceptual artist who died in April at 78, has so far escaped you, this exhilarating show of 14 of his mind-teasing, eye-filling wall drawings from the late 1960s and early '70s may do the trick. Selected and arranged by the artist, they proceed in carefully sequenced contrasts and echoes that are both insightful and idiosyncratic. Since their generating instructions are part of their titles, they reduce the creative process to a short, highly visible straight line. But their crisp geometries, accumulating marks and radiating patterns force us to mind the gap between artistic thought and artistic action, to experience the inability of language to account fully for visual outcome. Dia:Beacon, 3 Beekman Street, Beacon, N.Y., (845) 440-0100, diabeacon.org, through Sept. 10. (Smith)
 CHRISTIAN TOMASZEWSKI: 'ON CHAPELS, CAVES AND EROTIC MISERY' The Polish-born, New York-based artist Christian Tomaszewski breaks down film's ''fourth wall'' by inviting viewers to enter his version of David Lynch's ''Blue Velvet.'' Installed in the basement of SculptureCenter are re-creations of locations and dollhouse-size models of objects from the movie, as well as other tableaus. Problems arise when he tries to merge the ''Blue Velvet'' angle with aspects of Kurt Schwitters's ''Merzbau'' to explore the collision of Postmodern and Modern ideas and aesthetics. Mr. Tomaszewski might be accused of over-reaching, but he offers plenty to think about: memory, representation and America as seen through both his eyes and Mr. Lynch's. The SculptureCenter, 44-19 Purves Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 361-1750, sculpture-center.org, through July 29. (Schwendener) 
 Public Art
 MAD. SQ. ART 2007: ROXY PAINE This installation is made up of two stainless-steel tree sculptures -- ''Conjoined'' and ''Defunct'' -- and a glacierlike boulder, ''Erratic,'' by Mr. Paine. The tree sculptures are made from thousands of pieces of metal pipe and rod elements that have been cut, welded and polished. They are real enough to resemble actual trees but not so real that they form a continuum with the surrounding foliage. What captures your immediate attention is ''Conjoined,'' a 40-foot-tall-by-45-foot-wide sculpture of two trees whose gleaming steel branches cantilever and then improbably connect in midair. It is impossible to tell where the branches of one tree begin, and the other's end. But the piece is also beautifully eccentric, a futuristic fantasy of streamlined vegetation manufactured in imitation of the real thing, only much more appealing and exciting. Madison Square Park, 23rd Street and Fifth Avenue, (212) 538-4689, madisonsquarepark.org, through Dec. 31. (Benjamin Genocchio) 
 Last Chance
 * THE MET: 'VENICE AND THE ISLAMIC WORLD, 828-1797' At its peak in the Renaissance, Venice, the Most Serene, was a giant, clamorous Costco-on-the-Rialto. All the necessities, and most of the luxuries, of life flowed into and through it, with many items arriving from Islamic Africa and the Near East. With classic Met largesse, this exhibition suggests the spectacle of two different cultures meeting in one fantastic city, in which commerce and love of beauty, those great levelers, unite them in a fruitful bond. (See above). Closes on Sunday. (Cotter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); PHOTOGRAPHY (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); FILM (79%); HISTORY (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); RIOTS (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007



102 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Documents Show KPMG Secretly Met Prosecutors

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
When top lawyers for the accounting firm KPMG sat down in secret with federal prosecutors to plead with them not to indict the firm in connection with its work on questionable tax shelters, they faced a life-or-death battle.
 ''Enron was only $1 billion; this fraud is much bigger,'' one of the prosecutors, Justin Weddle, told a senior lawyer for KPMG during a meeting in Manhattan in March 2005, according to recently released notes taken by one of the KPMG lawyers, Joseph Barloon of Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom.
 The stakes could not have been higher. An indictment would most likely have meant the firm's demise, as it did with Enron's accounting firm, Arthur Andersen, in 2002. KPMG in fact narrowly averted indictment after agreeing to pay a $456 million fine, admit wrongdoing and cooperate with a Justice Department investigation into its former employees, a case that continues to be closely watched by the legal community.
 Now Mr. Barloon's notes of meetings from March through June 2005, which were made public in June in connection with the related criminal trial of 16 former KPMG tax employees, provide a rare and detailed look inside the closed-door process of those dealings. 
 ''We almost never get a front-row seat to a negotiation between a major multinational company and the United States government,'' said Stephanie Martz, director of the White Collar Crime Project.
 The previously unseen notes convey the twists and turns of a legal drama, for sure -- but for some criminal defense lawyers, their language bolsters the contention that the prosecution of KPMG was particularly zealous. 
 KPMG fulfilled a two-year deferred prosecution agreement with the government last December and avoided criminal charges, but the effects of its ordeal continue. 
 The handling of the case has significant implications for the prosecution of its former employees, as well as for a criminal case against Deutsche Bank, which is under federal investigation into its tax shelter work. No charges have been filed against it. 
 The federal judge overseeing the prosecution of the former KPMG employees on criminal tax shelter charges has said that the government was coercive and violated the constitutional rights of the defendants by pressing KPMG to cut off payment of their legal fees as a condition of avoiding indictment itself.
 But to other legal observers, the notes of the discussions also highlight the gray areas between coercion and cooperation that typify corporate criminal investigations.
 ''There's a lot of posturing going on on both sides,'' said Peter Henning, a former lawyer in the Justice Department's criminal fraud division, after reviewing the notes. ''The government was threatening to put KPMG out of business, but I don't think they were serious.'' 
 The first meeting between KPMG and the prosecution described in the notes took place on March 2, 2005, at the Manhattan office of federal prosecutors for the Southern District of New York. 
 At that time, the government was furious with KPMG. The firm had effectively withheld information from Congressional and Internal Revenue Service investigators who were scrutinizing tax shelters; it had earlier resisted government efforts to compel it to turn over documents. 
 Mr. Barloon, the lawyer for KPMG who took the notes, wrote that David Kelley, the lead prosecutor, described the meeting as ''a settlement discussion,'' saying early on that ''KPMG is in a grave situation.'' 
 Mr. Kelley had successfully prosecuted Martha Stewart and Bernard Ebbers of WorldCom. Now he had his sights on KPMG.
 Robert Bennett, atop criminal defenselawyer for Skadden Arps who represented KPMG, made an argument he would repeat to prosecutors over the next several months: that bringing charges against the firm or even deferring charges through a deferred-prosecution agreement would create ''a death spiral'' for KPMG and the American economy. 
 When another federal prosecutor, Shirah Neiman, asked Eugene O'Kelly, the KPMG chairman at the time, how much the firm was prepared to pay as a fine, Mr. O'Kelly said KPMG had set aside $100 million, or $40,000 of each partner's average $570,000 annual salary. Mr. O'Kelly then outlined a proposal, short on details, in which KPMG would ''acknowledge wrongdoing by former partners,'' pay an unspecified fine, restrict its tax practice and cooperate with investigators.
 The prosecution left the room for 10 minutes and returned unimpressed. Mr. Kelley, the lead prosecutor, said that he was concerned that a previous change at KPMG, including a shake-up of its top ranks, ''doesn't scrub the culture'' and ''is more cosmetic than substantive.''
 ''You keep using the word 'acknowledge,' '' Mr. Kelley said. ''I don't like acknowledge, I like admission of guilt.''
 Mr. Kelley, who joined a private law firm, Cahill Gordon & Reindel in September 2005, said in a brief telephone interview that ''I wouldn't comment on any of those discussions, but recognize that there is no one in the room taking verbatim transcripts of my discussion, and consequently it would be subject to their own interpretation.'' 
 Mr. Bennett declined comment. Mr. Barloon did not return phone calls seeking comment. 
 On March 18, KPMG lawyers sat down before prosecutors with their own statement of facts. At the meeting, Mr. Kelley was unimpressed, saying, according to Mr. Barloon's notes, ''you look on the sword but don't fall on the sword.'' Ms. Neiman criticized it as full of ''appalling euphemisms'' and as ''soft and mushy.'' 
 There was a reason for the language. Mr. Bennett, the top Skadden lawyer, said during the meeting that ''we did not know all the facts behind any possible wrongdoing because we did not conduct an internal investigation.'' The government, concerned about KPMG's actions in the past, had pressed KPMG not to conduct its own internal inquiry. 
 Two days later, on March 22, 2005, Mr. Barloon, the Skadden lawyer for KPMG, met with Mr. Weddle. 
 ''I explained that we had modeled our statement on the statements in other agreements,'' Mr. Barloon's notes say, adding, ''he wasn't expecting an admission of guilt, was he?'' Mr. Barloon's notes cite Mr. Weddle as saying, ''If you don't want to draw inferences and make a strong statement, the government will do it for you. It's called an indictment.'' 
 On March 19, 2005, Joseph Loonan, an internal KPMG lawyer, sent an e-mail message to Mr. Barloon, the Skadden lawyer, saying that the statement of facts that prosecutors wanted KPMG to use as its admission ''is not of facts but of conclusions based on some facts, distortions of facts and adverse inferences.''
 Calling the proposed statement ''false, misleading and unsupportable,'' Mr. Loonan urged a strategy of fighting back and cited a trademark line by the singer and songwriter Kris Kristofferson, ''Freedom's just another word for nothing left to lose.''
 Ms. Martz, who has criticized what she calls government coerciveness in the case, said that ''it remains shocking to me that the Southern District would basically push a statement of fact down KPMG's throat without the company knowing itself whether everything in it is accurate.''
 By April, the situation had gotten worse for KPMG. In an April 26, 2005, meeting with KPMG lawyers, Mr. Kelley now argued that ''in the big accounting fraud cases where they play with the books, they are doing a legitimate service wrongly,'' according to Mr. Barloon's notes. ''Here this is quite different because the very service being provided wascorrupt and criminal.'' 
 A spokeswoman for the Southern District of New York declined to comment yesterday on the notes. A KPMG spokeswoman would say only that ''KPMG reached an agreement with the government nearly two years ago to resolve this matter.''
 On June 13, 2005, KPMG lawyers and executives met with the deputy attorney general, James B. Comey, and federal prosecutors. It was a highly unusual meeting, Mr. Comey said, according to the notes, adding that he had never met with outside lawyers for a firm facing indictment.
 Mr. Barloon's notes of that meeting show that Mr. Bennett began by quietly but intensely asking Mr. Comey not to indict KPMG. ''If we go under, that will disrupt not only KPMG clients but also the national economy,'' Mr. Bennett argued. 
 Mr. Comey countered that the wrongdoing at KPMG ''went everywhere -- up, down, sideways -- at least in the tax business,'' and asked Mr. Bennett if the firm had considering pleading guilty and spinning off its tax practice. Mr. Bennett said that the firm had considered but rejected such an idea. 
 Rod Rosenstein, the deputy assistant attorney general, who was at the meeting, asked whether the Justice Department was ''setting a precedent that we can't prosecute somebody if they come and clean everything up.'' 
 But earlier in the meeting, Mr. Bennett said that ''what was really precedent-setting about the case was the conditioning of the payment of legal fees on cooperation. We said we'd pressure -- although we didn't use that word -- our employees to cooperate.''
 The notes quote him later as saying ''what played out'' was ''a level of cooperation that is rarely done.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); LAWYERS (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (77%); JUDGES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%)

COMPANY: KPMG (95%); SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (91%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (52%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (52%); DBK (FRA) (52%); DBK (BIT) (52%); DBETN (JSE) (52%); DBA (ASX) (52%); DB (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (95%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (95%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007



103 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 3787 words

HEADLINE: Art

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE GREAT COVER-UP: AMERICAN RUGS ON BEDS, TABLES AND FLOORS,' through Sept. 9. The more than 60 rugs in this extraordinary show count among the best pictorial art of 19th- and early-20th-century America, which means that quite a few of the women who made them qualify as great, if unidentified, artists. Densely textured, gloriously colored, boldly scaled and exuberantly frontal, they were made between 1800 and 1950 and provide something of a history of the American handmade rug, from bed to floor, and from mostly yarn-sewn to the wildly popular hooking technique. Their intuitive intelligence, where space and composition are concerned, proves once more that modern form is not a modern invention and flattens the always provisional distinction between art and craft. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith) 
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'KINDRED SPIRITS: ASHER B. DURAND AND THE AMERICAN LANDSCAPE,' through July 29. This show of about 60 works by Durand has as its centerpiece ''Kindred Spirits'' (1849), a tribute to the landscapist Thomas Cole and his friend the poet and journalist William Cullen Bryant. A founder of the Hudson River School, Durand (1796-1886) favored the realistic approach to landscape. He explored forest interiors with close attention to the ways of trees, foliage and rocks and ground cover in smaller works, while his larger and more elaborate exhibition pictures, influenced by European masters, are Arcadian visions suffused with light, color and atmospheric perspective. The show reveals Durand's strong sense of artistic mission and his potent role in shaping the aesthetic of 19th-century America. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Grace Glueck) GREY ART GALLERY: 'BEYOND THE WHITE CUBE: A RETROSPECTIVE OF BRIAN O'DOHERTY/PATRICK IRELAND,' through July 14. Starting in the mid-1960s and in concert with the most influential thinkers of the period (Roland Barthes, Marcel Duchamp and Susan Sontag), Brian O'Doherty made Conceptual art in a Minimalist vein. This show displays his sculptures, drawings, performance videos, paintings and rope drawings, which could easily be called installations. It's a must-see show for anyone who wants to understand the conceptual frameworks that underpin so much of today's most significant installation and performance art. 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart/. (Bridget L. Goodbody)GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'DIVISIONISM/NEO-IMPRESSIONISM: ARCADIA AND ANARCHY,' through Aug. 6. Ultimately this rare, compressed, mercurial exhibition of work by the Italian Divisionists of the 1890s is long on history and short on truly convincing paintings. The inclusion of works by Seurat and his French, Dutch and Belgian followers clarifies how the Italians pushed Pointillism, Seurat's invention, in all directions: toward realism, academic classicism, Symbolism, class consciousness and even Impressionism. The show opens a new, albeit small, window on the genesis of Modernism beyond the French canon. If many of the works are period pieces, they are also immensely appealing, big-hearted and physically robust period pieces. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith) INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'BIOGRAPHICAL LANDSCAPE: THE PHOTOGRAPHY OF STEPHEN SHORE, 1969-1979,' through Sept. 9. In 1971 the Metropolitan Museum of Art gave Stephen Shore its second-ever exhibition by a living photographer. (Alfred Stieglitz had the first.) He was 23 when it opened. What he did makes up most of this wonderful show. Mr. Shore has reprinted the photographs digitally, with rejuvenated colors as fresh and subtle as the day the pictures were shot. The work's laconic eloquence speaks of an era and a nation. Its wit and affection add buoyancy to scenes of threadbare America from a moment when the country was depressed by war and years of civil unrest. Its formal rigor makes an uncanny order out of images that, at first glance, look like no place or nothing. Look again. His show reminds us of a period when cutting-edge American art and the tradition of straight, documentary photography got together. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at West 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. 
 (Michael Kimmelman)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'LET YOUR MOTTO BE RESISTANCE: AFRICAN AMERICAN PORTRAITS,' through Sept. 9. This show of photographic portraits is a praise-song in pictures, a shout-out to history. It's also a fancy-dress inaugural party for the yet-to-be-built National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington. It tends to be a little too fancy, too heavy on glitz, too short on grit. Still, what a party it is, with a Who's Who of charismatic black statesmen, from Frederick Douglass to Malcolm X, and with Leontyne Price, Mahalia Jackson and the Supremes sharing a stage. (See above.) (Holland Cotter)
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: DATELINE: ISRAEL: 'NEW PHOTOGRAPHY AND VIDEO ART,' through Aug. 5. Roughly every decade, the Jewish Museum offers a survey of contemporary art from and about Israel. This year non-Israeli artists from Europe and the United States -- and a single artist from Palestine -- have been added to the mix. There's some very good work here, though, on the whole, the show grapples with crucial political issues in an indirect way. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, jewishmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'IMPRESSIONIST AND EARLY MODERN PAINTINGS: THE CLARK BROTHERS COLLECT,' through Aug. 19. The Met examines the lives and collecting habits of two feuding brothers, heirs to the Singer sewing machine fortune, who were among the leading 20th-century art patrons. Sterling Clark was founder of the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute in Williamstown, Mass. His younger brother Stephen was a trustee of both the Met and the Museum of Modern Art (and established the National Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y.) The brothers shared a love of Renoir, Degas and Americans like Winslow Homer, but Sterling ''drew the line'' at Cezanne and considered Matisse and Picasso ''bad painters and fakers.'' Tracking their taste and how they dispersed their collections is interesting -- and perhaps instructive for contemporary collectors. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Martha Schwendener)
 THE MET: 'COAXING THE SPIRITS TO DANCE,' through Dec. 2. How the Papuans practiced their beliefs on the remote Pacific island of New Guinea in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, when they still had little contact with the West, is the complex and fascinating story told in this exhibition of some 60 objects and 30 rare photographs of the works on site or in actual use. The carved and painted ''spirit boards'' made throughout the gulf region, on the south coast of present-day Papua New Guinea, are probably the most easily recognized of the area's traditional artworks. Their central designs, passed down from fathers to sons and through marriages, typically represent a bush or river spirit, with a heavily stylized face and perhaps a small body, surrounded by various totemic symbols. More daring in concept are the masks used in ritual dances. Papuan art may not be as varied or exciting as that of many African or Amerind peoples, but it records a vibrant community. (See above.) (Glueck) 
 THE MET: NEO RAUCH AT THE MET: PARA, through Oct. 14. The figurative style of the leader of the Leipzig School is never less than ambitious, but here it looks almost fatally retro, as if the context of the Met had made the painter's mind turn to thoughts of browned-out colors; characters of a Romantic, 19th-century mien; and settings that often suggest garrets or hunting lodges. The result is an exhibition that looks too much at home in the museum and sells Mr. Rauch's talent short, but is still one that should be seen. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE MET: 'POIRET: KING OF FASHION,' through Aug. 5. A revolutionary in revolutionary times, the fashion designer and cultural dynamo Paul Poiret introduced unstructured garments that freed women from corsets in 1906, the year before Picasso committed his decidedly uninhibited (and unstaid) ''Demoiselles d'Avignon'' to canvas. But the modern painter whom Poiret most resembles, in his love of the exotic, his brilliant use of color and pattern and his penchant for simplified, almost rudimentary form, is Matisse. This rare exhibition -- the latest effort from the Met's esteemed Costume Institute -- does his sartorial genius justice with a spare installation rendered radiant by hand-painted silk backdrops of the leafy parks, chic theaters and luxurious drawing rooms of Paris. (See above.) (Smith)* THE MET: 'ONE OF A KIND: THE STUDIO CRAFT MOVEMENT,' through Sept. 3. Focusing on the postwar development of artist-craftsmen who not only conceive and design their own objects but have a direct hand in making them, this display of furniture, glass, ceramics, metalwork, jewelry and fiber includes funny, quirky, provocative and sometimes gorgeous things. Among its stars are a witty bust by the California funk ceramicist Robert Arneson (1920-92), portraying the mother of the 16th-century painter and printmaker Albrecht Durer; John Cederquist's elegant cabinet concealed behind a trompe l'oeil door painted and veneered to look like a battered wooden packing case with a rowdy wave tearing through it; and Bonnie Seeman's fetching ceramic coffeepot and tray, whose mock cabbage leaves and rhubarb stalks evoke the genteel tradition of 18th-century British and continental china, but can also be read as human rather than vegetative tissue. Traditionalists, too, have their place in this show, with the wood workers Wharton Esherick and Sam Maloof represented by elegantly simple renditions in the furniture line; respectively, a music stand and a Shaker-like settee. (See above.) (Glueck)THE MET: 'FRANK STELLA: PAINTING INTO ARCHITECTURE,' through July 29. Crammed into a gallery that feels like an obstacle course, this exhibition spans 43 years with 25 paintings, reliefs, drawings and architectural models, all with the goal of tracing an evolution that has not yet occurred. Taking up most of the space are enlarged versions of models that are considered sculptures -- and that look as if they date from the early 1960s. The main draws are the examples of the paintings and reliefs that are the basis of Mr. Stella's importance as an artist. (See above.) (Smith)THE MET: 'FRANK STELLA ON THE ROOF,' through Oct. 28. Two large Pop Art sculptures, two architectural models and a model enlarged into a sculpture-installation piece confirm that one of the greatest American artists of the postwar era doesn't do himself or anyone else any favors when he strays from the wall to work fully in the round. The results have a certain Stella-like verve but are otherwise generic. (See above.) (Smith)MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'RICHARD SERRA SCULPTURE: 40 YEARS,' through Sept. 10. This retrospective is a landmark by a titan of sculpture. At 67, Mr. Serra is still nudging the language of abstraction, constructing ever more awesome mazes of looming Cor-Ten steel. His ''Torqued Ellipses'' and ''Torqued Toruses'' and other recent works like ''Band'' and ''Sequence'' have their origins in pieces he did 40 years ago in rubber and lead, as this retrospective handsomely affirms, but these are nonetheless unprecedented variations on the theme of dumbfounding spirals and loops. These shapes and experiences are new. That's about the best, and the rarest, compliment you can give to any artist. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Kimmelman)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'NEW YORK RISES: PHOTOGRAPHS BY EUGENE DE SALIGNAC,' through Oct. 28. This exhibition makes a case for adding Eugene de Salignac, the official photographer for the New York City Department of Bridges, Plant and Structures from 1903 to 1934, to the canon of American photographers whose images are forever linked with the city. He captured the Williamsburg, Manhattan and Queensboro Bridges just as construction was completed and the subways tracks were being laid. In some of his moving, eye-catching images, he exhibits his appreciation for New York's work force. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1673, mcny.org. (Goodbody)
 THE NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN: 'PARADISE IN PRINT,' through Aug. 19. Watercolors, folio editions, rare books and prints from the 18th through the mid-20th centuries reveal how closely linked natural and human histories have been in the Caribbean over the last 500 years. Engravings and lithographs of cash crops like coffee, chocolate, tobacco and sugar (nicknamed ''green gold'') are accompanied by images from Mark Catesby's 18th-century natural history, which served as the model for Audubon's ''Birds of America''; images of African slaves and colonialists; and Nikolaus Joseph Jacquin's extraordinary ''Selectarum Stirpium Americanarum Historia,'' published around 1780 in Vienna, and illustrated with watercolors painted directly into the book. (It was purchased for the botanical garden by Andrew Carnegie.) Bronx River Parkway and Fordham Road, Bedford Park, (718) 817-8616, nybg.org. (Schwendener)
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY: 'NEW YORK DIVIDED: SLAVERY AND THE CIVIL WAR,' through Sept. 3. New York has a cosmopolitan pride in itself, but as this exhibition shows, it is not always well deserved. Even after slavery belatedly came to an end in New York State in 1827, New York City was a ''hotbed of pro-slavery politics,'' inspired by close commercial links with the South and the international cotton trade. For every instance of abolitionist activity, there is another in which slavery is defended or supported. This powerful exhibition, focused on the years between Emancipation and Reconstruction, and featuring documents, videos, audio dramatizations, books, cartoons and historic objects, shows how divided the city was. But it also draws attention to the importance of black abolitionists and to the forces that countered slavery's horrific heritage. It brings to a close the Historical Society's multiyear exploration of slavery in New York. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org. 
 (Edward Rothstein)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM AT ALTRIA: MATTHEW BRANNON, 'WHERE WERE WE,' through Aug. 26. Matthew Brannon brings together art, poetry and advertising in a series of letterpress prints that hark back to 1950s and 1960s textile designs by Astrid Sampe and Marimekko. Texts written by the artist and accompanying the images read like song lyrics crossed with Conceptual Art and Language Poetry (which emphasized experimentalism and reader interaction). Consumption and excess are frequent references, as well as how art, design and fashion feed these modern yet primordial urges and desires. 120 Park Avenue, at 42nd Street, (917) 663-2453, whitney.org. (Schwendener)WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'LINCOLN KIRSTEIN,' through Aug. 27. In the middle of the last century Lincoln Kirstein particularly relished attacking the Museum of Modern Art. Pure abstraction was ridiculous, he thought. It had no standards. Against Mondrian and Pollock, he endorsed, among others, the artists in this show. They are the sculptors Elie Nadelman and Gaston Lachaise and the painters Paul Cadmus, who was Kirstein's brother-in-law, Walker Evans and Pavel Tchelitchew. With the exception of Evans, Kirstein's taste clearly hasn't won the day, but it's never bad to re-examine received opinions or to be reminded of a generous advocate. 945 Madison Avenue at 75th Street, (212) 570-3600. (Kimmelman)WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'RUDOLF STINGEL,' through Oct. 14. The work of this Italian-born artist, who is based in New York, seduces the eye while also upending most notions of what, exactly, constitutes a painting, how it should be made and by whom. His favored materials include carpet and Styrofoam, as well as paint on canvas. His style swings between abstract purity and Photo-Realism. His grandly spare survey has a mirrored floor and a foil-covered room, lighted by a crystal chandelier, that visitors may mark on and that he may or may not later appropriate as a painting. As enthralling as it is perturbing, his work combines beauty, humor and a democratic slant with a rigorous sense of economy. It also forms one of the best-looking exhibitions lately seen at the Whitney. (See above.) (Smith)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'SUMMER OF LOVE: ART OF THE PSYCHEDELIC ERA,' through Sept. 16. Tear gas, pot and patchouli were the scents of the 1960s. You can almost detect the last two wafting through this two-floor display of rock posters, light shows, photographs and paintings. But the burn of tear gas, with the association of political emergency it brings, is missing in a show that remembers a lot, but forgets much more, about what was happening 40 years ago, when America was losing its mind to save its soul. (See above.) (Cotter) 
 Galleries: SoHo
 'GEGO, BETWEEN TRANSPARENCY AND THE INVISIBLE' The artist named Gego was born Gertrud Goldschmidt in Germany in 1912, but lived most of her life in Venezuela, where she produced netlike drawings in ink and watercolor and what she called ''drawings without paper'': semi-geometric, see-through, two- and three-dimensional pieces of twisted and knotted wires, suspended in space. Whether you think of them as grids gone haywire or as rational forms charged with emotion, they're out of this world, and this small survey gives a good sense of what is distinctive and radical about Gego's art. The Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org, through July 21. 
 (Cotter) 
 Galleries: Chelsea
 EZRA STOLLER : BUILDINGS OF NEW YORK Ezra Stoller (1915-2004) made a living photographing architecture, but he didn't consider himself an artist. ''I can draw out the strengths in a work that has strength,'' he once said, ''but I never claimed my work is art. The art is the architecture.'' You feel inclined to disagree when looking at his stunning black-and-white photographs of mid-20th-century buildings. For one thing, Stoller fits nicely into a trajectory of architecturally centered photography that wasn't always considered ''art'' (and includes the work of luminaries like Eugene Atget and Margaret Bourke-White). Stoller's photographs are also filled with sly details that emphasize the inevitable trudge of history and the modern overtaking the traditional and antique. Danziger Projects, 521 West 26th Street, through July 20. (Schwendener)
 DAN TOROP: SNOWBOUND Last summer Dan Torop and Justine Kurland organized an exhibition of photographs titled ''A Rabbit as King of the Ghosts'' that described the photographer as ''a seeker of mystery'' and photography as an act that ''casts a spell that turns the banal into the supernatural.'' This summer Mr. Torop delivers a similar manifesto with his own photographs. Many were taken in northern Iceland and depict a fairy-tale landscape of glaciers, water, mist and celestial effects. A few are like greeting-card images that counter the irony-laden and conceptually rigorous forms of photography that have dominated in the last few decades. Mr. Torop's dreamy visions register more like a challenge: What, you don't believe in magic? Derek Eller, 615 West 27th Street, through July 13. (Schwendener)
 Galleries: Other
 MARTIN KIPPENBERGER: 'PREIS BILDER' Seven canvases from two series of paintings rarely exhibited in this country play on the double German meaning of preis (price and prize), some variation of which appears on each surface. They show this famous bad-boy sculptor conveying his usual sarcasm in surprisingly beautiful terms that couldn't get much flatter. Hard-edged and brushy techniques contrast the main tactics of formalist painting while converting the Modernist grid into designs redolent of drapery and checked tablecloths. 1018 Art, 1018 Madison Avenue, near 78th Street, (212) 537-0453, 1018art.net, through July 27. (Smith) 
 SOL LEWITT: DRAWING SERIES ... If the greatness of Sol LeWitt, the Minimal-Conceptual artist who died in April at 78, has so far escaped you, this exhilarating show of 14 of his mind-teasing, eye-filling wall drawings from the late 1960s and early '70s may do the trick. Selected and arranged by the artist, they proceed in carefully sequenced contrasts and echoes that are both insightful and idiosyncratic. Since their generating instructions are part of their titles, they reduce the creative process to a short, highly visible straight line. But their crisp geometries, accumulating marks and radiating patterns force us to mind the gap between artistic thought and artistic action, to experience the inability of language to account fully for visual outcome. Dia:Beacon, 3 Beekman Street, Beacon, N.Y., (845) 440-0100, diabeacon.org, through Sept. 10. (Smith)
 Public Art
 MAD. SQ. ART 2007: ROXY PAINE This installation is made up of two stainless-steel tree sculptures -- ''Conjoined'' and ''Defunct'' -- and a glacierlike boulder, ''Erratic,'' by Mr. Paine. The tree sculptures are made from thousands of pieces of metal pipe and rod elements that have been cut, welded and polished. They are real enough to resemble actual trees but not so real that they form a continuum with the surrounding foliage. What captures your immediate attention is ''Conjoined,'' a 40-foot-tall-by-45-foot-wide sculpture of two trees whose gleaming steel branches cantilever and then improbably connect in midair. It is impossible to tell where the branches of one tree begin, and the other's end. But the piece is also beautifully eccentric, a futuristic fantasy of streamlined vegetation manufactured in imitation of the real thing, only much more appealing and exciting. Madison Square Park, 23rd Street and Fifth Avenue, (212) 538-4689, madisonsquarepark.org, through Dec. 31. (Benjamin Genocchio) 
 Last Chance
 * THE MET: 'VENICE AND THE ISLAMIC WORLD, 828-1797' At its peak in the Renaissance, Venice, the Most Serene, was a giant, clamorous Costco-on-the-Rialto. All the necessities, and most of the luxuries, of life flowed into and through it, with many items arriving from Islamic Africa and the Near East. With classic Met largesse, this exhibition suggests the spectacle of two different cultures meeting in one fantastic city, in which commerce and love of beauty, those great levelers, unite them in a fruitful bond. (See above). Closes on Sunday. (Cotter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); SCULPTURE (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); PAINTING (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008



104 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Fed Names Rates Adviser

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve Board named Brian F. Madigan yesterday as a top adviser on interest rates to its chairman, Ben S. Bernanke. 
 Mr. Madigan, 53, will take over as director of the division of monetary affairs on July 23. Vincent Reinhart, the current director, will become an adviser to the board before he leaves the central bank later this year to go to the American Enterprise Institute, the Fed said. 
 Leading monetary affairs is known among economists as one of the most grueling jobs at the Fed. Responsibilities span daily financial market surveillance in liaison with the Fed's New York district bank to producing every six weeks the blue book, which outlines interest-rate policy options for the Federal Open Market Committee policy makers.
 The open market committee has kept its benchmark interest rate at 5.25 percent for 12 months, with inflation slowing and growth quickening as policy makers predicted. 
 Mr. Madigan has been the deputy director of the monetary affairs division since 2001.
 Mr. Reinhart, 49, announced his plans to join the American Enterprise Institute in January. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); BOARD CHANGES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (88%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007



105 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: 2008 Candidates Vow to Overhaul U.S. Health Care

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 5 

 BODY:
There is no better measure of the power of the health care issue than this: Sixteen months before Election Day, presidential candidates in both parties are promising to overhaul the system and cover more -- if not all -- of the 44.8 million people without insurance.
 Their approaches are very different, reflecting longstanding divisions between the parties on the role of government versus the private market in addressing the affordability and availability of health insurance. Republicans, by and large, promise to expand coverage by using a variety of tax incentives to empower consumers to buy it themselves, from private insurers. Conservatives warn, repeatedly, of Democrats edging toward the slippery slope of ''government-controlled health insurance,'' as former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York puts it, and promote the innovation and choice offered by private insurers.
 The major Democratic candidates propose strengthening the private-employer-based system, through which most working families get their coverage. But many Democrats also see a strong role for government, including, in some plans, new requirements that individuals obtain insurance and that employers provide it, along with substantial new government spending to subsidize coverage for people who cannot afford it. 
 Still, while they argue over solutions, both parties acknowledge the problems and their political urgency. Republicans, whose primaries usually turn on other issues, often wait until the general election to roll out detailed health plans; this time they are plunging into the debate far earlier. Democrats are competing furiously among themselves over who has the bigger, better plan to control costs and to approach universal coverage, a striking change from the party's wariness on the issue a decade ago after the collapse of the Clintons' health care initiative. 
 And both parties are closely watching the action in the states as potential blueprints for a centrist compromise, especially in Massachusetts, which just began a major plan intended to require that every individual have insurance. 
 In short, says Jonathan Gruber, an economist, health expert and Clinton administration veteran, the times are ''radically different.''
 In fact, when Senator Barack Obama of Illinois unveiled a plan intended to cover tens of millions of uninsured Americans, but not requiring coverage for all, some Democrats in rival campaigns argued that he had not gone far enough. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, once vilified as overreaching on health care, is now more often faulted in her party as moving too slowly. Mrs. Clinton's 1994 plan, attacked at the time from the left, right and center, is presented in the new Michael Moore documentary, ''Sicko,'' as a tragic missed opportunity. 
 This amount of attention, this early, comes in response to the growing anxiety among voters -- and much of American business -- about the cost of health care. Premiums for family coverage have risen by 87 percent since 2000, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. The number of Americans without insurance has grown steadily, to what the Census Bureau estimates as nearly 45 million, from 37 million when the Clintons first confronted the issue.
 Businesses say that health costs are a huge liability in their struggles to compete in a global economy, most vividly in the auto industry. And health care is now rated the top domestic issue in some recent polls among Democrats, independents and voters over all. Among Republicans, it was surpassed only by immigration in June, according to the latest Kaiser survey. A Democratic pollster, Geoffrey Garin, says: ''There are a bunch of issues that candidates can take a pass on. This is not one of them.'' 
 On the Republican side, few candidates have been better prepared to deal with the issue than former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, who helped push through that state's health plan with bipartisan support. But Republican primary voters tend to be leery of new government requirements, and, arguably, of Massachusetts as a role model. Mr. Romney, on the campaign trail, talks generally about getting ''everybody inside the health care system,'' through ''market reforms'' state by state to make private insurance cheaper and more available. But not, he says, ''with a government takeover.''
 Sally Canfield, policy director for the Romney campaign, says that Mr. Romney is proud of his record, but ''the Massachusetts plan was crafted for Massachusetts,'' and that a national plan would be different. For example, aides said he did not support a federal version of the Massachusetts requirement that individuals obtain insurance.
 Mr. Romney's rivals are casting themselves as equally committed to improving the health care system, but even more determined to use free-market principles to do so, which they hope will prove them more attuned to the Republican base. Mr. Giuliani plans to produce a major proposal in the next month, aides say, that will elaborate on his commitment to ''affordable and portable free-market solutions.'' 
 Mr. Giuliani says he wants to give individuals more control over, and responsibility for, health insurance, encouraging them to buy their own coverage on the private market and giving them ''a very big tax deduction'' to do it. Right now, most Americans under 65 get their coverage through their employers, who have the benefit of significant tax advantages, pooled risk and group rates.
 Mr. Giuliani's approach echoes President Bush's call for an ''ownership society,'' which was popular with economic conservatives but widely criticized as putting too much risk on individuals. ''Every one of the Democrats wants government-mandated health insurance,'' Mr. Giuliani said recently. ''We have to go in exactly the opposite direction.''
 Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, will also outline a health care plan this summer, aides said. They said it would be intended to make coverage ''affordable and available,'' using tax credits and the expansion of programs like the State Children's Health Insurance Program, but would include no new mandates on individuals. 
 Analysts say the Democrats are clearly drawing lessons from the health care battles of 1993-4, when a similar public groundswell for change collapsed in a matter of months. The 1,342-page Clinton plan at that time was bewilderingly bureaucratic and easy for opponents to characterize as something that would actually worsen the status quo for many insured Americans.
 This year, the major Democratic proposals -- including Mr. Obama's, one from former Senator John Edwards of North Carolina and a plan expected from Mrs. Clinton -- are arguably ambitious and costly, but do not try the wholesale reinvention of the system, or move explicitly toward the government takeover Republicans so often predict.
 ''There's not a lot of untested political ideas out there,'' said Robert Blendon, a professor in health policy at Harvard.
 The major Democratic plans announced so far try to cover nearly everyone by shoring up the employer-based system, creating new public insurance options and establishing new health insurance purchasing pools that offer a variety of private and public plans to people who cannot get coverage through work. People who could not afford coverage would get subsidies. Given those supports, some Democrats (including Mr. Edwards and -- it is widely expected but not yet announced -- Mrs. Clinton) back the idea of requiring every individual to obtain insurance.
 Mr. Edwards and Mr. Obama call for financing their plans with revenue from ending the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans; those cuts are set to expire in 2010.
 Diane Rowland, executive vice president of Kaiser, said candidates were responding not only to recent failures, but also to recent successes, notably in Massachusetts and potentially California.
 ''To get something enacted, you need a lot of people who think they will gain from it,'' Ms. Rowland said. ''It's a new way of talking about health reform, because it shows people with health insurance what they could gain. These proposals are not just about the haves versus the have-nots.'' 
 Few have taken that advice more to heart than Mrs. Clinton, who is rolling out her proposals to control costs and improve quality before her ideas for covering the uninsured, which are expected in the next few months. She recently, for example, proposed a ''Best Practices Institute'' to assess the most effective treatments and procedures.
 Another hallmark of this year's plans, in both parties, is a reliance on better health information technology and disease management to hold down costs -- not the more rigorous regulatory structures proposed in 1994, which critics asserted would soon lead to rationing. 
 By the time Election Day rolls around, polls indicate that the issue will be front and center, setting the stage for another great battle to overhaul the system under the next president. Veterans of the Clinton administration say it all feels familiar. 
 ''If the Democrats win, it will be very hard not to take this issue on,'' said Mr. Gruber, who is helping to carry out the Massachusetts plan. ''It will be as promising as it was in the early 1990s.''

GRAPHIC: Chart'' ''Addressing Health Care'' What the leading presidential hopefuls have said so far about improving the health care system in the United States. (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (61%); TAX INCENTIVES (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007



106 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Britain Raises Rates Again; Europeans Hint of Move

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER; Carter Dougherty contributed reporting from Berlin.

DATELINE: LONDON, July 5 

 BODY:
The Bank of England raised interest rates Thursday for the fifth time in a little less than a year, and the president of the European Central Bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, hinted at a possible rate increase later this year as policy makers around the world respond to the threat of accelerating inflation.
 The Bank of England raised its key rate by a quarter-point, to 5.75 percent, the highest it has been in six years, citing concern that inflation would stay above the bank's 2 percent target. 
 The European Central Bank left its benchmark interest rate at 4 percent. But Mr. Trichet said he had ''no intention to change in any respect the present expectations of the market'' for another rate increase in September or October.
 As part of a long, slow process of normalizing borrowing costs from historic lows, the European Central Bank's key rate has doubled since it began raising rates in December 2004. 
 In the United States, the Federal Reserve said last month that inflation remained the ''predominant'' risk for the economy. It kept the benchmark United States interest rate at 5.25 percent and said that while inflation readings had improved modestly, a ''sustained moderation in inflation pressures has yet to be convincingly demonstrated.'' 
 The Bank of England's rate rise sent the pound, which had gained against the dollar in the days before the announcement, to $2.02 -- close to a 26-year high. It fell to $2.0123 Thursday.
 Financial markets expected the rate increase because minutes of the bank's committee meeting last month revealed that Mervyn King, governor of the Bank of England, was overruled in a 5-to-4 vote that decided against a rate increase. 
 ''The increase was no surprise,'' said Philip Shaw, an economist at Investec in London, who wonders whether rates have peaked. ''Rates have probably peaked, but there's clearly a risk that if a slowdown doesn't happen we'll see another increase.''
 The bank's previous rate increases have had only limited effects so far. House prices in Britain are still increasing and the country's booming financial services industry has contributed to the fastest economic growth in Britain in three years.
 British inflation rose unexpectedly to 3.1 percent in March, the highest since January 1997, and some economists, including James Knightley at ING Wholesale Banking in London, predicted interest rates would reach 6 percent this year. 
 Rachel Lomax, deputy governor for the Bank of England, and some economists called for patience, saying that the effects of previous increases would trickle through and that a further rate increase after Thursday's could tip the scale. Ms. Lomax said last week that policy makers should be cautious of ''overdoing it.'' 
 Higher rates have already started to weigh on British households, which are struggling to repay their mortgages. 
 The latest rate increase will add about $:30 a month ($60) to repayments on an average 25-year mortgage of $:200,000. 
 British homeowners are spending the highest share of their income on mortgage payments in 15 years, according to the Council of Mortgage Lenders. 
 Some mortgage lenders have started to offer a sale-and-rent-back option in which distressed homeowners can sell their houses, usually at a lower price, and start renting them to avoid repossession.
 Alistair Darling, the new chancellor of the Exchequer, told The Financial Times on Wednesday that he was concerned about mortgage payers' facing higher repayment costs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); WHOLESALE BANKING (73%); HOME PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF ENGLAND (90%); INVESTEC LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%)

TICKER: INL (JSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (90%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (53%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007



107 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 2274 words

HEADLINE: Classical

 BODY:
CLASSICAL
 Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.
 REWIND: A CANTATA FOR VOICE, TAPE AND TESTIMONYBeethoven wrote odes to freedom and political equality. John Adams gave music to Richard M. Nixon's diplomatic mission to China. Now the South African composer Philip Miller has honored the 10th anniversary of his country's Truth and Reconciliation Commission hearings in song. Music is less inherently foreign to these hearings than it was to Metternich's Vienna or Nixon's trip to China. The hearings were conceived as a way to allow ordinary people to voice their grievances and memories of a country under apartheid, stimulating the healing process; and when the proceedings became heated, everyone joined in hymns until things calmed down. 
Some of those hymns have a place in ''REwind,'' above, as does digital sampling, recordings of the testimony and contributions from the Total Praise Choir of the Emmanuel Baptist Church in Brooklyn. While he mingles these local voices in his work -- the piece is being presented as part of Celebrate Brooklyn -- Mr. Miller, well known in South Africa for, among other things, his collaboration with the visual artist and filmmaker William Kentridge, is trying to give voice to the ethos of his own nation. Accordingly, the piece also features some leading South African voices, like that of Sibongile Khumalo, a genre-busting singer, classically trained, known as a jazz performer, experienced in opera and hailed as a ''marvel'' in The Chicago Tribune for her appearance in the South African opera ''Princess Magogo'' at the Ravinia Festival in 2004. The work is best described as a collage of national styles, from traditional Zulu techniques to protest music of the apartheid era; presumably this fits right in with the colorful melting pot that is Brooklyn. (Tonight at 7:30, Prospect Park Bandshell, Prospect Park West and Ninth Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, 718-855-7882, brooklynx.org; free.) ANNE MIDGETTE
 Opera
 BEL CANTO AT CARAMOOR (Sunday) It's not quite opera, but it's certainly operatic: Rossini's ''Petite Messe Solennelle,'' his final vocal piece, will be performed by Will Crutchfield and a group of his usually reliable young singers. Julianna Di Giacomo, Laura Vlasak Nolen, Barry Banks and Daniel Mobbs have all acquitted themselves with honor around New York City in recent seasons; they should be well worth hearing. At 4:30 p.m., Caramoor, Katonah, N.Y., (914) 232-1252, caramoor.org; $15 to $45; $9 lawn seating. (Anne Midgette)
 GLIMMERGLASS OPERA(Tomorrow through Monday) No matter what route a New Yorker chooses in driving upstate to Cooperstown, it always seems to take exactly four hours. But it is well worth the drive to experience this acclaimed summer festival, which offers an absolutely ideal opera house, seating just 900, and beautiful environs. This summer, in a fascinating project, the company presents four quite different operas based on the Orpheus and Eurydice myth. The festival opens tomorrow night with a production of Offenbach's tuneful comic take, ''Orpheus in the Underworld,'' performed in English translation; it repeats on Monday. On Sunday afternoon comes Gluck's ''Orphee et Eurydice,'' in the version prepared by Berlioz. It was this Gluck masterpiece that Offenbach essentially parodied in his stylish operetta. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Sunday and Monday at 2 p.m., Route 80, north of Cooperstown, N.Y., (607) 547-2255, glimmerglass.org; $69 to $117. (Anthony Tommasini)
 Classical Music
 ASTON MAGNA (Tonight and tomorrow) This festival, devoted to period-instrument performance and now in its 35th season, is offering ''18th Century Italian Virtuoso Music for Violin and Guitar'' tonight at Bard College. Daniel Stepner, a violinist and the festival's artistic director, plays works by Paganini and Locatelli with the guitarist Richard Savino. The program will be repeated tomorrow in the Berkshires. Tonight at 8, Olin Hall, Bard College, Route 9G, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., (845) 758-7425; tomorrow at 5 p.m., Daniel Arts Center, Simon's Rock College, Great Barrington, Mass., (413) 528-3595 or (800) 875-7156, astonmagna.org; $30 to $40. 
 (Vivien Schweitzer)
 BARGEMUSIC (Tonight through Sunday, and Wednesday) You might not expect a coffee barge to make an ideal concert hall, but against all odds, this one has become one of the best places to hear chamber music in New York. This week the violinist Mark Peskanov (who is also the barge's artistic and executive director) and the pianist Jeffrey Swann are sharing the spotlight. This weekend they are playing Beethoven and Handel violin sonatas -- the highlights are Beethoven's ''Spring'' Sonata (tonight) and ''Kreutzer'' Sonata (tomorrow night and Sunday). On Wednesda, Mr. Swann has the stage to himself for ''Wagner and His Influences,'' a program that includes works by Chopin, Liszt, Schoenberg and Granados, as well as several Wagner transcriptions. Tonight and Wednesday night at 8, tomorrow at 1 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 4 p.m., Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35; $20 for students; $30 for 65+ tonight only. (Allan Kozinn)
 BROOKLYN PHILHARMONIC (Thursday) Michael Christie leads his Brooklyn musicians in ''Baroque Meets Tango -- Eight Seasons,'' a program that brings together Vivaldi's ''Four Seasons'' and Astor Piazzolla's ''Four Seasons of Buenos Aires.'' Lara St. John is the violin soloist. At 8 p.m., South Street Seaport, Pier 17, Fulton and South Streets, Lower Manhattan, (718) 488-5700, brooklynphilharmonic.org; free. (Kozinn)
 CARAMOOR (Tonight and tomorrow night) Green grass and forest shade, Venetian arches and sweet music: Caramoor offers the ingredients of a summer idyll. Whatever the weather, the music should be upheld tonight by the eight hands of the Pacifica Quartet, a sizzling ensemble offering Bartok's Fourth, Dutilleux's ''Ainsi la Nuit'' and Beethoven's three ''Rasumovsky'' quartets. Tomorrow the Orchestra of St. Luke's and the Caramoor Virtuosi will perform Beethoven's Triple Concerto and Mendelssohn's ''Italian'' Symphony: quintessential summer fare. At 8, Katonah, N.Y., (914) 232-1252, caramoor.org; $25 to $35 tonight, $17.50 to $67.50 tomorrow. 
 (Midgette)
 JEFFERSON FRIEDMAN (Sunday) Two works by this talented up-and-coming composer, a protege of John Corigliano, will receive an alfresco airing in the Noguchi Museum's sculpture garden. Gli Altri, a recently formed ensemble, will perform Mr. Friedman's String Quartet No. 2 (1999), written while he was studying with Mr. Corigliano at Juilliard, and the String Quartet No. 3 (2005). At 3 p.m., 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. Free with museum admission: $10; $5 for students and 65+. (Schweitzer)
 JUPITER SYMPHONY CHAMBER PLAYERS (Monday) This energetic young ensemble typically includes both familiar and unfamiliar works on its programs. This week, the rarity is the String Quartet in A minor by the late-19th- and early-20th-century German composer Friedrich Gernsheim. The ensemble will also play Mozart's String Quintet in C minor (K. 406) and Beethoven's variations on Mozart's ''La ci darem la mano.'' At 7:30 p.m., St. James's Church, Madison Avenue at 71st Street, (212) 799-1259, jupitersymphony.com; $10 to $25. (Kozinn) 
 MAVERICK CONCERTS (Tomorrow and Sunday) This concert series near Woodstock, N.Y., offers its performances in an open-backed barn that allows the sounds of nature to mingle with the music. Julia Bentley, a mezzo-soprano, and Babette Hierholzer, a pianist, perform music by Grieg, Sibelius, Brucknerand Mahler tomorrow night. And on Sunday the Daedalus Quartet and the pianist Frederic Chiu play Franz Schmidt's Piano Quintet to close a program that also includes quartets by Schubert and Debussy and Liszt's piano transcription of the Prelude and Liebestod from Wagner's ''Tristan und Isolde.'' Tomorrow at 6 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Maverick Concert Hall, Maverick Road, between Routes 28 and 375, West Hurley, N.Y., (845) 679-8217, maverickconcerts.org; $20; $5 for students. (Kozinn)
 MUSIC MOUNTAIN (Tomorrow and Sunday) Fifty years ago there were only a couple of string quartets of any stature; today there are enough to form the focus of a whole festival. Music Mountain, now in its 78th year, now focuses almost exclusively on quartets, though Sunday's ensemble is a quartet by default; the Janaki String Trio, after offering trios by Beethoven and Dohnanyi, will be joined by the pianist Alpin Hong for Brahms's G minor Piano Quartet. The festival has a jazz component as well; tomorrow's performance is by the vocalist Giacomo Gates. Tomorrow at 6:30 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Falls Village, Conn., (860) 824-7126, musicmountain.org; $22 in advance; $25 at the door; $12 for students. 
 (Midgette)
 NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC IN THE PARKS (Tuesday through Thursday) That New Yorkers appreciate the Philharmonic's annual summer series of free concerts in the parks is proved by the big turnouts these programs routinely attract, with the cooperation of the weather, of course. The orchestra presents two programs over the next two weeks, and the first offers a top-notch young conductor, Ludovic Morlot. He made an impressive debut last year with the Philharmonic at Avery Fisher Hall. In the parks he will conduct Berlioz's ''Corsaire'' Overture, Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto (with Stefan Jackiw, soloist) and Tchaikovsky's ''Pathetique'' Symphony. Fireworks follow each program, which may not seem quite the thing after hearing Tchaikovsky's wrenching final symphony. On the other hand, why not? Tuesday at 8 p.m., Prospect Park, Brooklyn; Wednesday at 8 p.m., Great Lawn, Central Park; Thursday at 8 p.m., Cunningham Park, Queens; (212) 875-5709, nyphil.org. (Tommasini)
 NORFOLK CHAMBER MUSIC FESTIVAL (Tonight and tomorrow night) Since 1941, the Yale School of Music has been running this intensive festival in a bucolic region of northwest Connecticut. The concert series features faculty and student performers with prestigious guest artists. This weekend there are two appealing chamber concerts: an all-Mozart program tonight, with the pianist Boris Berman, the oboist Stephen Taylor and the hornist William Purvis among the accomplished players, and a program tomorrow night featuring the Tokyo String Quartet and the cellist Ole Akahoshi, with music by Haydn, Lera Auerbach and Schubert (the great String Quintet in C). At 8, Ellen Battell Stoeckel Estate, Routes 44 and 272, Norfolk, Conn., (860) 542-3000, yale.edu/norfolk; $10 to $45. (Tommasini)
 SUMMERGARDEN AT MOMA (Sunday) Members of the New Juilliard Ensemble -- Miranda Cuckson on violin, Elizabeth Lara on cello and Jacek Mysinski on piano -- perform New York and world premieres of chamber music by a diverse group of composers. The lineup includes Wang Jie's ''Shadow,'' Lee Hyla's ''Amnesia Redux,'' Uri Brener's ''Triptych'' and Nigel Westlake's ''Trio in 3 Movements.'' At 8 p.m., Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Sculpture Garden, Museum of Modern Art, (212) 708-9491, moma.org; free. (Schweitzer)
 TANGLEWOOD (Tonight through Sunday, and Thursday) The Boston Symphony takes up residence in its summer home tonight, as James Levine leads the orchestra and the Tanglewood Festival Chorus in the Tchaikovsky Fourth Symphony and Mendelssohn's incidental score for ''A Midsummer Night's Dream.'' Heidi Grant Murphy, the soprano, and Kristine Jepson, the mezzo-soprano, are the soloists. Tomorrow night the orchestra's young assistant conductor, Ludovic Morlot, leads a program that includes Tchaikovsky's ''Rococo'' Variations and ''Pezzo Capriccioso,'' with Lynn Harrell as the cello soloist. Andre Previn takes over on Sunday when he conducts Tchaikovsky's and Prokofiev's versions of ''Romeo and Juliet,'' and the Rachmaninoff First Piano Concerto, with Jean-Philippe Collard as the soloist. And for something completely different, Jordi Savall performs with his extraordinary period-instrument ensemble, Hesperion XXI, on Thursday. Tonight, tomorrow night and Thursday night at 8:30; Sunday at 2:30 p.m. Lenox, Mass., (888) 266-1200, tanglewood.org; $16 to $99. (Kozinn)
 WASHINGTON SQUARE MUSIC FESTIVAL (Tuesday) Outdoor concerts in the city can suffer from one problem, no matter what the weather: street noise. This festival's inventive concert will try to stand up to the issue by presenting some loud groups of its own. The evening's title, ''3x4,'' indicates that three different quartets will perform: four cellos, four trombones and four horns; all 12 musicians will then join together in arrangements of the Adagietto from Mahler's Fifth Symphony and Schubert's lied ''Der Doppelganger'' (with a bass trombone on the solo part). At 8 p.m., Washington Square Park, Greenwich Village, (212) 252-3621, washingtonsquaremusicfestival.org; free. (Midgette)
 YOUNG PEOPLE'S CHORUS OF NEW YORK CITY (Monday) This ensemble of children and teenagers from diverse economic and ethnic backgrounds opens the ''Summer Stars'' series, the classical segment of the annual downtown River to River arts festival. Francisco J. Nunez, the artistic director who programs innovative repertory for his talented young charges, here leads the choir in five commissions (which recently had premieres at a ''Transient Glory'' concert) by Bruce Adolphe, Michael Gordon, Meredith Monk, Tarik O'Regan and Ned Rorem, as well as gospel and Broadway show tunes. At 7:30 p.m., Schimmel Center for the Arts, Pace University, 3 Spruce Street, between Park Row and Gold Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 835-2789, rivertorivernyc.com; free. (Schweitzer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); OPERA (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (79%); MUSIC REVIEWS (79%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); VISUAL ARTS (66%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) SOUTH AFRICA (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007



108 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths YOUNG, JAMES R. ''JIM''

 BODY:
 YOUNG--James R. ''Jim'', age 55, of Great Falls, VA died on July 4, 2007 at Reston Hospital Center after a brief illness. He was born on July 15, 1951 in Kalamazoo, MI to the late Wesley and Edna Bloom Young. Jim was a 1969 graduate and valedictorian of Paw Paw High School, where he was also a two time state champion for playing the flute at the Interlockin Music Academy. 
Jim was a 1973 Summa Cum Laude graduate of the University of Michigan where he earned his B.A. in Economics and was a member of Phi Beta Kappa. He went on to receive his J.D. in 1976 from the University Of Michigan School Of Law where he was the Senior Editor, Michigan Law Review. Upon graduation he started his career as a third generation attorney for Steptoe & Johnson, Washington, DC. In 1983, he joined Bell Atlantic as an attorney of the C&P Telephone Company. In 1986, he was named general attorney and in 1992, Executive Vice President and General Counsel. At Bell Atlantic, Jim was the architect of the companys regulatory reform plans, led the team that made Bell Atlantic the first Bell company to be allowed into the long distance business under the 1996 Telecom Act, and participated in the negotiation of two of the largest mergers in the history of the telecommunications industry the Bell Atlantic/NYNEX merger and the Bell Atlantic/GTE merger. Jim was also one of the lead negotiators in the Bell Atlantic/Vodaphone deal that made Bell Atlantic the largest wireless carrier in the United States. After retiring from Bell Atlantic (now Verizon) Jim began working as a legal consultant and doing ProBono work for O'Melveny and Myers, LLP, Washington, DC. Jim served on the Board of Directors for Washington Savoyards and the Men's Health Network. Throughout his life Jim maintained a passion for History, Music and Politics. Jim was the beloved husband of 31 years of Elizabeth A. Young, loving and devoted father of Jonathan W. Young of Reston, VA, Kathryn L. Young of Philadelphia, PA and Caroline A. Young of Great Falls, VA, brother of the late Charles A. Young. The family will receive friends on Friday, July 6th from 6:30pm to 8:30pm at Adams - Green Funeral Home, 721 Elden Street, Herndon, VA, where funeral services will be held on Saturday, July 7th at 1pm. Interment will be held on Monday, July 9th at 1pm at Prospect Hills Cemetery, Paw Paw, MI. The family suggests that memorial contributions may be made to the Mens Health Network, P.O. Box 75972, Washington, DC 20013 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (87%); MEN'S HEALTH (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); MEN (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (74%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (74%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (72%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (71%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (66%)

COMPANY: BELL ATLANTIC WASHINGTON DC INC (84%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (92%); O'MELVENY & MYERS LLP (83%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); MEN'S HEALTH MAGAZINE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); PHI BETA KAPPA (57%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (84%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (77%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007



109 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: California Investigates a Mother-and-Child Prison Center

BYLINE: By SOLOMON MOORE

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 5 

 BODY:
The authorities in California are investigating accusations that poor health care at a center where mothers serve prison terms with their young children led to the stillbirth of a 7-month-old fetus and endangered the lives of several children.
 Staff logs, statements by prisoners and interviews with investigators, staff members and prisoners' families depict a facility where inmates and their children were denied hospital visits and medications, and where no one kept adequate records of accidents involving injuries that included a skull fracture and a broken collarbone. 
 The California Department of Alcohol and Drug Programs, one of several agencies investigating, is expected to decide this month whether to continue licensing the center, which houses nonviolent offenders, most convicted of drug crimes.
 The problems at the center coincide with continuing intense scrutiny of health care delivery in California's prisons. A court-appointed receiver was handed control of prison medical services more than a year ago after a federal court found widespread neglect and malpractice.
 The 40-bed facility, located in San Diego and offered as an alternative to serving time in the customary penitentiary setting, has dormitory-style rooms for inmate and child adjoining shared living areas. It is run under the banner of the Family Foundations Program by a nonprofit contractor, Center Point Inc., which did not return calls seeking comment.
 An official with the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, Wendy Still, said the department had looked into accusations surrounding the center and had ordered Center Point, based in San Rafael, Calif., to hire a part-time doctor for the facility and keep a registered nurse there. Disciplinary action could be taken against Center Point, depending on the results of the investigation, Ms. Still said.
 The San Diego police would not comment on the inquiry, except to confirm that their child abuse unit was taking part. A spokeswoman for the court-appointed receiver, Robert Sillen, said it was unlikely that his authority extended to the care of children at the center.
 ''We don't think that these kids are part of our mandate, because they are not incarcerated,'' said the spokeswoman, Rachel Kagan.
 With the state dogged by prison overcrowding, the Family Foundations Program had been considered a model for nonviolent female offenders. A provision for a similar program in Fresno, the state's sixth for incarcerated mothers and their children, is in a new law that, to accommodate 53,000 more prisoners, provides $7.7 billion for prison construction and new initiatives.
 Though only a small fraction of the total prison population, female inmates are growing in number in California and other states. The federal Bureau of Justice Statistics announced last week that the nation's prison and jail population grew 2.8 percent from midyear 2005 to midyear 2006, the largest rise since 2000, and that the number of incarcerated women grew at almost double the overall rate, to a total of 111,403.
 Sharp increases in imprisonment of women began after the enactment of stiffer drug sentencing laws in the 1980s and 1990s, said Robert J. LaLonde, an economist at the University of Chicago.
 ''A lot of women who probably wouldn't have gone to prison before are now going in for Class 4 drug felonies -- the least serious felonies,'' Dr. LaLonde said, referring to crimes that in some instances had previously resulted in nothing more than probation.
 Studies show that about 75 percent of imprisoned women across the country are mothers, most of whom had custody of their children before their incarceration. In most cases, the children are left in the care of grandparents or other members of the extended family, but about 10 percent are placed in foster care.
 Only a handful of states offer imprisoned mothers the opportunity to live with their children, and even those states allocate few spaces to them. The most such spaces are in California, where 140 women live with their children at five small centers, including the one in San Diego.
 Advocates of mother-child prison programs say they can reduce recidivism while retaining family bonds and easing pressure on the state's child welfare system. But even supporters worry that the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, or C.D.C., may be too dysfunctional to provide sufficient oversight.
 ''This program has fallen by the wayside,'' said Karen Shain, co-director of Legal Services for Prisoners With Children, based in San Francisco. ''I don't want to say that they should shut it all down, but I don't know that the C.D.C. has the capacity to take care of women and children.''
 Accusations of neglect and incompetence at the San Diego center abound.
 For instance, one inmate, Marsha Strickland, complained to the staff about her 5-year-old daughter's blinding headaches and constant nausea for at least six weeks before the girl was allowed a hospital visit in January, according to accounts by inmates and former staff members. The child is now living with relatives and undergoing treatment for brain cancer.
 In April, another prisoner, Sonya Bradford, delivered a stillborn fetus. According to interviews with former staff members and to witness statements offered to the San Diego police, the prison's staff had ignored Ms. Bradford's complaints that the fetus, which was 7 months old, had stopped moving. Corrections officials deny responsibility for the stillbirth because it occurred only two days after Ms. Bradford's arrival at the center.
 Yet another inmate, Dinesha Lawson, says she told the staff for several days that her infant daughter's breathing was labored. Finally, on May 3, Ms. Lawson and the baby, Esperanza, were taken to the emergency room of a children's hospital, driven there by Trish Hoban, a vocational counselor later fired by Center Point on the ground, she says, that she had shared inmates' confidential health information with other inmates, an accusation she denies.
 ''They took the baby into the trauma ward to a room called the resuscitation room,'' Ms. Hoban said of Esperanza. ''They said the baby's heart rate was 32. She was in cardiac arrest.''
 Esperanza's father, William Ramirez, says she had double pneumonia and was later given a regimen of antibiotics and a blood transfusion.
 Ms. Still, the corrections official, denies that the girl was in cardiac arrest but acknowledges that she required placement in an incubator.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The center is a dormitory-style alternative to the penitentiary setting. (Photograph by Sandy Huffaker for The New York Times) William Ramirez and daughter, Esperanza. She lived with her mother at a center for nonviolent offenders before becoming dangerously ill there. (Photograph by Max Whittaker for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); PRISONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BONE FRACTURES (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (75%); STATISTICS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (71%); FOUNDATIONS (70%); HEAD INJURIES (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); POPULATION GROWTH (62%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS & REHABILITATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007



110 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Britain Convicts 4 in Separate Terrorism Trials

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

DATELINE: LONDON, July 5 

 BODY:
Even as investigators tried to untangle the complicated web of connections among the suspects in last week's failed car bombings, four Muslim men were convicted of terrorist offenses in two separate trials in Britain on Thursday.
 In the first case, 37-year-old Omar Altimimi, who came to Britain from the Netherlands in 2002, was convicted in Manchester of possessing what the prosecution described as a ''vast library'' of material that included information on how to make explosives, how to detonate bombs remotely and how to set up terrorist cells in Britain. 
 In the second case, three men in London -- one British-born, the others from overseas -- were convicted of inciting terrorist murder through extremist Web sites they operated on the Internet, the first conviction of its kind in Britain. The sites included videos of beheadings by insurgents in Iraq, bomb-making instructions and exhortations to commit terrorist acts in the name of Islam. 
 The investigation into the foiled car-bomb plots has dominated media coverage in the last week, all but drowning out the news of the latest verdicts. In part that is because terrorism trials have become almost commonplace; Britain is awash in them. More than 100 people have recently been convicted, or are currently on trial, awaiting trial or facing verdicts in more than two dozen terrorism-related cases here. 
 A verdict is expected soon in one of the biggest cases: that of six men accused of the botched suicide bombing attempts on London's subways and buses on July 21, 2005. The failed attacks -- in which the bombs did not explode -- took place exactly two weeks after the July 7 attacks that killed 56 people, including four perpetrators.
 Another big case, that of the suspects accused in the audacious plot to use liquid bombs to blow up planes over the Atlantic last summer, has not yet gone to trial.
 Meanwhile, seven men were sentenced to prison terms ranging from 15 to 26 years last month for their roles as accomplices to a Qaeda terrorist planning attacks on targets in Britain and the United States, including the New York Stock Exchange and the headquarters of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. And in April, five men were found guilty of planning fertilizer-bomb attacks on targets around London, including a major suburban shopping center and a popular London nightclub. 
 The sheer number of cases shows how difficult it is for the authorities to keep on top of the activities of would-be terrorists in this country.
 While many of the suspects appear to be motivated by the same ideology -- hatred of the West and support for violent jihad directed at targets symbolizing what they regard as Western power or decadence -- the individual plots are hard to unravel. Relationships are complicated. Suspects work together or individually, with other Britons or people from abroad, often connected by evidence on computers or cellphones that requires painstaking investigation before charges can be brought. 
 ''We are not looking at discrete terrorist cells that can be investigated, isolated and dismantled,'' Peter Clarke, the senior antiterrorism officer at Scotland Yard, said in a speech in April. ''We are seeing networks within networks, connections within connections, and links between individuals that cross local, national and international lines.'' 
 The Manchester case came about because Mr. Altimimi was arrested last year on suspicion of money laundering. When the police seized his computer, they found files containing instructions on making bombs, detonators and explosives, and video clips of graphic executions of hostages in Iraq. Mr. Altimimi was also found to have links with terrorists in the Netherlands and with Junade Feroze, one of the men convicted last month in the plot to blow up targets in Britain and the United States. 
 The three men convicted in London on Thursday came to the attention of the police after a man arrested near Sarajevo, Bosnia, in 2005 was found in possession of a video that showed the three apparently preparing for an attack; they also appeared on his computer ''buddy list.'' 
 It is illegal in Britain to operate Web sites inciting terrorism, and the three men -- 23-year-old Younis Tsouli, originally from Morocco; 24-year-old Waseem Mughal, who was born in Britain; and 21-year-old Tariq al-Daour, originally from the United Arab Emirates -- were found guilty of doing just that. 
 Their laptops were full of incriminating material, including a PowerPoint slide presentation titled ''The Illustrated Booby Trapping Course,'' which contained a guide to the use of military and improvised explosives, including tips on making a suicide vest in which ball bearings could be used as shrapnel. They also discussed how their violent videos were being used to inspire jihadists and finance jihadist activities. 
 The three were also found to have close ties to Qaeda operatives in Iraq. In one e-mail message, Mr. Tsouli told Mr. Mughal that he had been asked by ''AQ,'' referring to Al Qaeda, to translate their official e-book, ''The Tip of the Camel's Hump,'' into English. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Tariq al-Dour, Youins Tsouli and Waseem Mughal, were found guilty of inciting terrorist murder through extremist Web sites.
 Omar Altimimi was convicted of possessing a ''vast library'' of material that included information on how to make explosives.(Photographs by Metropolitan Police) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (98%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); SENTENCING (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); PRISONS (75%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); RELIGION (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); MURDER (58%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (88%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (88%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (88%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); ENGLAND (88%); UNITED STATES (88%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007



111 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: After Celebrating Winning Bid, Russia Has Work Ahead

BYLINE: By SOPHIA KISHKOVSKY; Andrew E. Kramer contributed reporting.

DATELINE: MOSCOW, July 5 

 BODY:
Russia exulted on Thursday in its victorious bid to play host to the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, a mountainous Black Sea resort town that is a favorite of President Vladimir V. Putin, an avid skier. Putin's personal appearance at the International Olympic Committee's session in Guatemala City on Wednesday is credited with tipping the balance in Russia's favor.
 Russian television broadcast the vote live late into the night and showed thousands of revelers dancing in the streets of Sochi, where Thursday was declared a day off to mark the victory. 
 Back in Moscow from Guatemala on Thursday, Putin said the I.O.C.'s choice underscored the restoration of Russia's status in the world.
 ''This is, without a doubt not only a recognition of Russia's achievements in sports, it is, there is no doubt, an assessment of our country,'' he said on the tarmac after getting off his presidential plane. ''This is an acknowledgment of its growing capabilities, first and foremost in the economic and social spheres.''
 Also Thursday, the Kremlin published Putin's decree on the Games, including measures like easing entry visa regulations for foreigners traveling to Sochi for the Olympics.
 Russian politicians echoed Putin's comments, some of them placing the Games squarely in a geopolitical context.
 ''This is confirmation of the fact that the world is not unipolar,'' Boris Gryzlov, the chairman of the State Duma, Russia's lower house of parliament, told ''Vesti,'' the news broadcast on Rossiya, a state-controlled television channel. ''There are forces that support Russia. Russia is once again becoming a world leader.''
 The Sochi Games will be Russia's first Winter Olympics and its first Games since the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow, which were boycotted by the United States and by some of its allies in protest against the Soviet Union's 1979 invasion of Afghanistan.
 Addressing the I.O.C. in English and in French at its meeting in Guatemala, Putin used the lure of a stunning coast, snowy mountains, Greek mythology, first-person observations and cold hard cash to cast the former Soviet-era resort as the best candidate for the Games. After Salzburg, Austria, was eliminated in the first round of voting, Sochi beat out Pyeongchang, South Korea, by 51-47.
 ''We guarantee that the Olympic cluster in Sochi will be completed on time,'' he said. ''We are allocating a round sum of $12 billion for this.''
 Putin also promised that ecological concerns would be respected in the construction push. Environmentalists have warned of the threat posed by the Games to a nature preserve in the mountains near Sochi. After the announcement in Guatemala, the Moscow office of Greenpeace issued a statement saying that it would also hold the I.O.C. responsible for damage to the environment.
 The Sochi bid initially seemed unlikely to succeed. Sochi was famous for playing host to Stalin, whose dacha is now a hotel, and hordes of workers on union-sponsored holidays, who packed the resort's rocky beaches. Its crumbling infrastructure and post-Soviet prices belied its poor service and often overshadowed its ribbon of palm trees and hotels squeezed between the Black Sea and the peaks of the Caucasus Mountains.
 In a holdover from Soviet times, most resorts are still a cross between spas and hospitals, offering medical treatments for ailments such as black lung. 
 But its cachet began to rise with Putin's ascent to power and his highly publicized skiing jaunts to the region's Krasnaya Polyana slopes, about a 40-minute drive from the city.
 For most sports, the facilities are primitive or nonexistent. Alexei Voevoda, a Sochi native who won a silver medal in the four-man bobsled competition at the 2006 Turin Olympics, told Channel One television that he dreamed of the new facilities the Games would bring, especially the country's first bobsled run. 
 Vladimir Boichenko, a vice mayor of Sochi, was preparing for the mountain of work ahead.
 ''We are planning to start building tomorrow,'' he said in a telephone interview Thursday night. ''The celebration is over. Now it will be 100 percent work.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); SKIING (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); RESORTS (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (73%); BOYCOTTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (62%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (61%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); MYTHOLOGY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (58%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (88%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (54%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); GUATEMALA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (73%); AUSTRIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007



112 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: A Low-Key Leader for a High-Intensity Job

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: LONDON, July 4 

 BODY:
When Peter Clarke, Britain's counterterrorism chief, delivered a major speech in April describing the threat posed by extremists, he chose the title ''Learning From Experience.''
 Failed car bombings in London and Glasgow last weekend have shown, above all, that the lesson, indeed the battle, is far from over. And the high drama of the attacks has contrasted with the low-key manner he has adopted as the public face of British counterterrorism.
 Mr. Clarke, 52, a man of measured tones and cautious mien, has not rushed to the microphones to offer dramatic updates on the case. He has probably spent less than half an hour on camera at two news conferences -- one in London and one in Glasgow -- since the crisis erupted last Friday. 
 ''The impression he gives is one of being determinedly low-key,'' said Tim Newburn, a professor of criminology at the London School of Economics. ''There's something almost old-fashioned about his shunning of the limelight.''
 ''He is trying to strike that tricky balance between providing timely and accurate information without raising expectations,'' Mr. Newburn said in an interview. ''He's been trying to dampen expectations, not to overplay the extent to which police can solve the problem of terrorism, because clearly they can't.''
 Mr. Clarke offers an almost avuncular public visage, more in the slightly bumbling manner of John le Carre's George Smiley than Ian Fleming's James Bond. When he speaks in public, his delivery is deadpan: the glib sound bite, the throwaway wisecrack are not his style. 
 That is partly for tactical reasons. Many high-profile American prosecutors use the news media as a weapon in their investigations, often hoping to flush out suspects. Mr. Clarke seems to prefer an inscrutable silence to keep them off balance. Even if he were to change his approach, British law severely limits the publication of information that could be deemed prejudicial to a fair trial. 
 Which makes perfect sense, said Paul Wilkinson, a counterterrorism expert at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland. ''If you give too much information too soon, you damage the integrity of the investigation'' and risk jeopardizing the ability to prosecute suspects in court, he said.
 Mr. Clarke particularly abhors leaks, and few ever come from the people around him. He has even told the foreign law enforcement officers he deals with, in Europe and the United States, that he would prefer them to be discreet with shared intelligence, according to some foreign officials.
 Leakers, he said in his speech in April, ''compromise investigations.'' 
 ''They reveal sources of life-saving intelligence,'' he said. ''In the worst case they put lives at risk. I wonder if they simply do not care.''
 Fellow officers regard Mr. Clarke as dogged and painstaking, police officers say. When he is displeased, his eyes harden and his tone sharpens. But, equally, when there is a joke -- even on himself -- his grin is almost boyish. 
 When he spoke in April, his manner was understated but his message was chilling. ''The only sensible assumption is that we shall be attacked again,'' he said. The forecast took less than three months to come true. 
 Mr. Clarke took over as chief of London's counterterrorism force in 2002, with the world still reeling from the Sept. 11 attacks. At that time in Britain, he said in his April speech, ''the specter of a homegrown terrorist threat was not yet with us.''
 That changed with several bloody events. Two Britons went to Israel in 2003 on a suicide bombing mission. On July 7, 2005, four suicide bombers killed 52 people on the London transport system. A second group of bombers tried to carry out attacks two weeks later but failed. In August 2006, Britons were again implicated in a plot to bomb trans-Atlantic airliners with liquid explosives.
 Mr. Clarke is the product of a police effort in the 1970s to bring more college graduates into the force. A lawyer and alumnus of the University of Bristol, he spent most of his early policing days in London boroughs such as Tottenham, Hackney and Brixton, which were known for high crime rates and strained relations between the police and ethnic minorities. 
 In the 1990s, Mr. Clarke began a steady advance as a staff officer to the former police commissioner, Lord Paul Condon. He led the Diplomatic and Royal Protection Department in charge of providing close security for foreign dignitaries and members of the royal family.
 He was in charge of the unit when Diana, Princess of Wales, died in 1997 in a car crash in Paris. Some police officers suspect that he knows far more than has ever been said in public about her final moments. 
 In his time with Scotland Yard, policing has moved from gumshoe plodding on the beat to the technology of keeping tabs on many of the people much of the time. Britons are subject to far greater surveillance than Americans, or any other Europeans for that matter.
 Closed-circuit television cameras scan public places in shopping malls, on main streets, and in railroad cars, airports, stores and bars. Images from them have been used to track suspects in major cases, including the July 7 bombings and the current inquiry, where CCTV videotape helped trace the movements of cars laden with explosives. Detailed scrutiny of images and other evidence has been a hallmark of Mr. Clarke's investigations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Clarke, seen in a recent photo, has a reputation for being careful, dogged and painstaking, and for his deadpan public speaking delivery. (Photograph by Yui Mok/Press Association, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%)

PERSON: PETER CLARKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (88%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPE (79%); SCOTLAND (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007



113 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Report Finds Growth Still Moderate

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
The job market looked much like the economy as a whole last month: subdued but strong enough.
 The Labor Department said yesterday that employers added 132,000 new jobs to their payrolls in June, maintaining the recent pace of moderate employment growth.
 If the June report is any indication, economists said, the labor market should continue on a similar path for the rest of the year. 
 The Labor Department also reported yesterday that the national unemployment rate was unchanged at 4.5 percent for the third consecutive month. The employment-population ratio, meanwhile, rose a tenth of a percentage point, to 63.1 percent. The figure describes the ratio of employed people to the working-age population; a rising number indicates a rising rate of job creation. 
 Amid its signs of strength, however, the job market showed several pockets of weakness. Hiring, for example, was concentrated in just a handful of sectors.
 New jobs in education and health services, leisure and hospitality, and government totaled 138,000. Other businesses -- in manufacturing, finance and retailing -- either experienced little hiring or cut jobs last month.
 ''It's not as though we're seeing steady and broad-based job growth,'' said Richard F. Moody, chief economist for Mission Residential, a real estate investment firm in Austin, Tex. ''It's been fairly concentrated in a relatively small number of industries.''
 As the economy slowed considerably from the end of 2006 through the first quarter of this year, it seemed likely that the malaise would eventually spread to the job market. But that has yet to happen in any significant way, and the level of hiring in June suggests that it will not, economists said.
 ''We've probably dodged that bullet for now, '' said Jan Hatzius, chief United States economist for Goldman Sachs. ''Because right now you have an acceleration in the economy. So it'd be most surprising if the jobs numbers started falling out of bed in the next three months.''
 The housing market is in distress, consumers are pessimistic about the state of the economy and businesses have trimmed capital spending -- all signs that would typically portend an imminent slowdown in hiring.
 Yet job creation over the last three months has averaged 148,000 -- a number economists consider modestly strong. This year, employers added the most jobs in May (190,000) and the fewest in February (90,000). 
 Job creation in April and May was actually stronger than the government first estimated, and the Labor Department revised its figures for those months to show a total 75,000 new positions.
 But there are questions about whether the Labor Department's numbers are capturing the full employment picture. Many economists have been puzzled at how strong some of the numbers are despite the clear signs of an economic slowdown. Construction employment, for example, has not registered the types of declines that would be expected during a housing recession. (Last month, it grew by 12,000.) And some sectors, like health care and hospitality, seem unusually strong. 
 ''You would have expected the job market would have done a bit worse,'' said Nigel Gault, an economist with Global Insight, an economics research firm in Waltham, Mass. ''We may well find when we get the next set of revisions to the numbers that jobs didn't do as well.''
 Mr. Hatzius of Goldman Sachs added: ''I would not take the numbers at face value.''
 As has been the pattern in recent months, local and state governments hired swiftly last month, adding 41,000 new workers. Restaurants and bars also continued on a hiring binge, adding 34,600 employees. The health care and social assistance professions added another 42,300 jobs.
 But elsewhere the situation was not as bright. The manufacturing sector lost 18,000 jobs. Retailers purged 24,200; professional and business services another 9,000. The employment services business, which includes temporary workers, eliminated 26,500 jobs.
 Wage gains for most Americans last month were slow, and are most likely still trailing inflation. Compared with June 2006, average hourly earnings for workers in nonmanagement jobs increased 3.9 percent, to $17.38, less than May's 4 percent advance.
 Mr. Moody of Mission Residential said hiring patterns suggested hesitance among many employers. ''It's as though businesses aren't too sure about where the economy is going. So they're willing to hang on to their existing workers, but they're not willing to hire new workers.''
 The lack of widespread layoffs has allowed for a less drastic weakening of the job market. The gradual nature of the decline from the boom period of early 2006 is one reason businesses did not pull back more this year. 
 ''Obviously the labor market never really weakened in the same way overall growth did,'' said Paul Ashworth, senior United States economist with Capital Economics. ''Really, the labor market is weakening, but it's happening very, very gradually.''

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Labor Picture in June'' (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (65%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007



114 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S OFFLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Look for the Overlooked Stocks

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN who is 5-foot-10

 BODY:
 STOCKS receiving coverage by analysts for the first time tend to jump significantly -- 13 percent in three months on average, according to a study by the University of Florida -- so the obvious question is, Where will Wall Street turn its attention next?
 Smart Money thinks it knows. It has identified four companies that it says Wall Street researchers will discover soon. ''These stocks tend to be small, with little trading activity and offer value simply because not as many people know about them,'' Evelyn Ellison Twitchell wrote. 
 The first stock she wrote about, though, has been around for 200 years: the publisher John Wiley & Sons, which began by printing the works of authors like Edgar Allan Poe. It is also the publisher of the popular For Dummies series. 
 The other three companies were SureWest Communications, a local phone service company in Sacramento; American Science and Engineering, a beneficiary of increased security measures because it makes X-ray equipment that detects explosives and drugs; and Mueller Industries, which makes copper tubes and fittings used in home construction. 
 If you are looking for a way to invest in undercovered stocks, Ms. Twitchell noted that an exchange traded fund opened last September, the Claymore/Sabrient Stealth E.T.F., ''which provides exposure to an index of 150 stocks covered by two or fewer analysts.'' 
 SPIN TO WIN Last year, when Agilent Technologies spun off Verigy, its semiconductor business, shares in the new company took off. Verigy is up 55 percent since the spinoff, compared with a 9 percent climb in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index during that time.
 Sally Beauty Holdings is up 20 percent, in a period when the S.& P. climbed only 7 percent, since being shed by the Alberto-Culver Company.
 These gains are not a coincidence, according to Kiplinger's.
 ''Studies have shown that spinoffs are very good investments,'' the magazine wrote. ''Lehman Brothers found that spinoffs beat the S.& P. 500 by an average of 18 percentage points in their first two years as independent companies.''
 The magazine offers three possible explanations for this success. 
 First, managers of the new companies often have incentives ''tied directly to its performance in a way that was impossible in a larger company.''
 Second, the new stock often trades at a discount initially, as shareholders who receive the stock in the spinoff sell it, content to hold on to what remains of the parent company. 
 Also, ''the market often assigns a higher value to easy-to-understand companies.''
 ASIA NOW Ten years ago this month, a financial panic forced the so-called tiger economies of Indonesia, Malaysia and other Asian nations into recession and set off a spate of bankruptcies.
 A lot can happen in a decade, Bloomberg Markets reports. The Asian countries have diversified their exports, thanks in large part to a consumption boom in China, and have reduced their debt. As a result their stock markets are soaring. 
 For the 12 months that ended May 9, the Malaysia market was up 44 percent; the Philippines and Indonesia each climbed 36 percent. Singapore was up 35 percent, and Thailand was up 6 percent. 
 SERIOUS PURSE STRINGSPink magazine reports that women frequently make the buying decisions in many categories where marketing attention is traditionally focused on men.
 According to the numbers compiled by Marti Barletta in her book ''Marketing to Women,'' women drive the purchasing decisions in the following categories: home improvement, 80 percent; computers, 66 percent; new cars, 60+ percent; consumer electronics, 55 percent; and investments, 53 percent.
 FINAL TAKECosmopolitan, citing an unnamed online dating study, said that women would ''relax their standards of how tall they want their mate to be'' if the man earned enough money.
 How much? 
 A man who is 5-foot-6 would need to make $175,000 more a year to be considered as desirable as a man who is 6 feet tall.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 10, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An entry in the What's Offline column in Business Day on Saturday, about companies that Smart Money magazine predicted would soon get analyst coverage, misspelled the name of one of the companies. It is Mueller Industries, not Muller Industries.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (86%); PARENT COMPANIES (79%); ELECTRONICS (79%); IRRADIATION APPARATUS MFG (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); WRITERS (75%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); COPPER ROLLING DRAWING & ALLOYING (67%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%)

COMPANY: AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES INC (82%); SUREWEST COMMUNICATIONS (69%); ALBERTO-CULVER CO (65%); JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (57%); AMERICAN SCIENCE & ENGINEERING INC (56%); SALLY BEAUTY HOLDINGS INC (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%); BLOOMBERG LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (84%)

TICKER: A (NYSE) (82%); JWB (NYSE) (57%); JWA (NYSE) (57%); ASEI (NASDAQ) (56%); SBH (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (69%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (69%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (65%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (65%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (56%); NAICS334517 IRRADIATION APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7382 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (56%); SIC3844 X-RAY APPARATUS & TUBES & RELATED IRRADIATION APPARATUS (56%); SIC5087 SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (91%); ASIA (90%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008



115 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S ONLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: What's Lacking in 'Sicko'

BYLINE: By DAN MITCHELL. 
Complete links are at nytimes.com/business E-mail: Whatsonline@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to economic decisions, there are always trade-offs. Gain one thing and you lose something else. This is particularly true in health care, a market in which a scarce good is ridiculously expensive, but needed by everybody.
 The central argument of Michael Moore's movie ''Sicko'' -- that the cure to the nation's health care problems is a single-payer system -- is hardly novel and is certainly worth consideration, whether or not you agree with it. But in comparing the American system with single-payer plans of other countries --Britain, France, Canada and Cuba -- Mr. Moore left out the trade-offs, characterizing those countries as health care paradises. 
 The elisions have been noticed -- and criticism is coming not just from Mr. Moore's most bellicose and dogmatic detractors.
 Kurt Loder, the film critic who is best known as the anchor of ''MTV News,'' wrote a scathing critique of the film for MTV's Web site. '' 'Sicko,' '' he allowed, ''does a real service'' in portraying victims of American insurance companies -- like the people who died because their only treatment options were deemed ''experimental'' and therefore not covered.
 But the film as a whole, he concluded, is ''breathtakingly meretricious,'' in large part because of its characterizations of other countries' health care systems (mtv.com).
 When ''governments attempt to regulate the balance between a limited supply of health care and an unlimited demand for it, they're inevitably forced to ration treatment,'' Mr. Loder asserted. He ticked off a number of negative anecdotes and statistics to counter the positive ones offered by Mr. Moore. Mr. Loder cited the short film ''Dead Meat,'' which presents anecdotes of failure in the Canadian single-payer system. In its one-sidedness, ''Dead Meat'' (available online at onthefencefilms.com) might have made for a nice double feature with ''Sicko,'' and left moviegoers with a more complete understanding of the complications of deciding on a health care system.
 Mr. Moore also decided to ignore or gloss over problems in other countries, like France's high taxes and Britain's cash-short hospitals.
 This all makes an otherwise ''emotionally compelling film not necessarily an intellectually gratifying one,'' wrote Darren Barefoot, a Canadian blogger (darrenbarefoot.com).
 Dollars and Pounds Higher gasoline prices lead to slimmer waistlines, according to a working paper by a Washington University economist, Charles Courtemanche (artsci.wustl.edu/cjcourte).
 Mr. Courtemanche says his findings support his hypothesis that when gas is expensive, people are more prone to walk rather than drive. A $1 increase per gallon, he estimates, would decrease the prevalence of obesity by 13 percent, prevent 15,000 deaths annually and save $16 billion a year in medical costs. He proposes that gas taxes be used to improve public health.
 That last bit was too much for Jacob Sullum, a senior editor at the libertarian magazine Reason. Even if the hypothesis is right, he wrote on the magazine's Hit & Run blog at reason.com, ''using that connection as a rationale for raising gas taxes means overriding the preferences of people who would rather drive than walk, even if it means they weigh a bit more than they otherwise would.''
 Worse, he added, the ''same argument could be used to justify high taxes on labor-saving devices such as dishwashers, remote controls, and gas-powered lawn mowers, not to mention TV sets, video games, books, and other products associated with a sedentary lifestyle.''
 High Prices In an item that would have fitted perfectly in High Times magazine circa 1978, The Economist's Web site recently reported on cocaine prices worldwide. ''No surprise that it is cheapest in Colombia,'' says the cheeky British publication: ''at $2, a gram costs less than a Big Mac.'' The farther from South and Central America, the higher the price. ''In far-flung New Zealand, a gram costs a wallet-busting $714.30,'' compared with slightly more than $100 in the United States (economist.com).

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (Drawing by Alex Eben Meyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); FILM (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); INSURANCE (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007



116 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Shares Up as Investors Like Jobs Data

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street ended the first week of the third quarter with a respectable gain yesterday, shaking off early losses as investors found signs of strength in the government's June employment report.
 For the most part, investors were relieved to hear that the unemployment rate held steady at 4.5 percent in June for the third consecutive month, as expected, and that 132,000 jobs were added -- fewer than in May, but slightly higher than the average forecast. 
 Yesterday's jobs report was the most significant economic release of the shortened Fourth of July week, and indicated a fairly robust job market, given the slow-growing economy. If the majority of Americans are employed, they will most likely keep spending and bolstering corporate profits. 
 But the market had some early mixed feelings about the report, and the major indexes began the day with declines. While the positive snapshot boded well for the long-term performance of the stock market, it also raised worries that a too-strong economy would make the Federal Reserve more willing to raise rates to curb inflation. 
 Treasury bond prices weakened 10/32, to 94 25/32, after the employment numbers were released, pushing up the 10-year Treasury note's yield to 5.18 percent, from 5.15 percent. High yields can make mortgages more expensive for home buyers, slow business deals and make bonds appear a more attractive investment than stocks.
 But to many market watchers, higher rates are a positive sign. John O'Donoghue, co-head of equities at Cowen & Company, said it was unlikely investors would start selling stocks to invest in Treasuries unless the 10-year yield rose above 5.25 to 5.30 percent and stayed there.
 ''If yields are going higher because there's growth in the economy, that's actually good for stocks,'' Mr. O'Donoghue said.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 45.84 points yesterday, to 13,611.68.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 5.04 points, to 1,530.44, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 9.86 points, to 2,666.51. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 2.18, or 0.26 percent, to 852.31.
 Trading volumes were relatively low yesterday, with many traders still off after the Wednesday holiday. Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by about three to two on the New York Stock Exchange, where consolidated volume came to 2.39 billion shares, compared with 2.62 billion on Thursday.
 For the week, the Dow rose 203.06 points, or 1.51 percent; the S.& P. 500 rose 27.09 points, or 1.80 percent; and the Nasdaq advanced 63.28, or 2.43 percent.
 The market had strong gains Monday, as the first week of the second half of 2007 began, when the 10-year Treasury note's yield dipped below 5 percent for the first time since early June. Stocks floundered later in the week, though, as yields rebounded. Though some analysts say the week's unevenness was a result of low trading volumes, others said it continued the recent pattern of volatility.
 ''I think the market, generally, entered the second half with more uncertainty, a little bit of caution, and sensitivity to bond rates -- that's what's changed,'' said Alexander Paris, economist and market analyst for Barrington Research, based in Chicago.
 Takeover activity has been helping the stock market stay afloat lately, and the market got another piece of buyout news late Thursday when Advanced Medical Optics made a $4.23 billion cash-and-stock bid for a competitor in eye care products, Bausch & Lomb, beating a $3.67 billion cash bid by a private equity firm.
 Advanced Medical Optics fell 4 cents, to $35.85, after analysts said yesterday that it would probably have to sell some businesses to appease regulators. Bausch & Lomb closed unchanged at $72.
 Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings raised its offer for its rival CBOT Holdings for the third time ahead of Monday's vote by shareholders. The Chicago Mercantile Exchange rose $19.11, to $574.80, while CBOT jumped $17.85, to $224.
 Crude oil futures, trading at 10-month highs, rose $1, to $72.81 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange, buoyed by renewed violence and kidnappings in Nigeria, Africa's biggest oil producer.

GRAPHIC: Charts: ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' position of the Dow Jones Industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. ''The Favorites'' Stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%)

COMPANY: COWEN GROUP INC (66%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

TICKER: COWN (NASDAQ) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007



117 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Mental Malpractice

BYLINE: By JEROME GROOPMAN. 
Jerome Groopman, a professor of medicine at Harvard, is the author, most recently, of ''How Doctors Think.''

 BODY:
Boston
 ONE kind of new year comes for all of us in January -- the one we celebrate with Champagne. But another, more stressful new year begins for doctors in July, when the new interns arrive in our emergency rooms, clinics and wards. Hospital personnel have always joked, ''Don't get sick in July,'' since for decades the trainees were loosely supervised.
 Today, most hospitals closely watch over interns. But at the start of this new medical year, a significant deficiency remains in the system: the way in which doctors are trained to think.
 One of my first experiences with the problem came in 1983, during the first week in July as it happens, when my wife, Pam, also a doctor, and I were traveling to Boston from California with our son Steven, then 9 months old. Steve had developed a low-grade fever, had dark and loose stools and was irritable, refusing to nurse. Stopping in Connecticut to visit my in-laws, we consulted the town pediatrician. The doctor quickly dismissed Pam's concerns. ''You're overanxious,'' he told her. ''Doctor-parents are like this.'' 
 By the time we arrived in Boston, the baby was ashen and he was jerking his knees to his chest and wailing in pain. We rushed to the emergency room at Children's Hospital, where a new surgical resident examined him, ordered X-rays and blood tests and made the correct diagnosis: an intussusception, an intestinal obstruction. It was a hectic night, and the novice doctor was being pulled in many directions. He told us there was no urgency to operate and left us alone with our flailing child.
 I had worked one year in a research lab at this hospital and phoned the senior hematologist who had been my mentor. He contacted an attending surgeon, who came to the emergency room and whisked Steve to the operating room. ''It was fortunate that we operated when we did,'' the surgeon told us later. The intestine was at the point of bursting, spilling its contents into the abdomen, precipitating peritonitis and possibly shock.
 Today at Children's Hospital, you no longer need to know a powerful member of the staff. Every intern's plan of treatment is validated by an attending doctor as part of the ''patient safety movement.'' Systematic checks and double checks also have been instituted to guard against logistical mistakes, like mixing up blood samples in the laboratory or labeling ''left'' as ''right'' on a limb X-ray. 
 Still, doctors get their diagnoses wrong 15 percent to 20 percent of the time, and half of these mistakes result in serious harm or even death -- because the majority of misdiagnoses result from errors in thinking, not logistics. 
 In analyzing patients' problems, doctors look for typical signs and symptoms. Often after listening to a patient's complaints for just 18 seconds, studies show, a doctor will interrupt, having already formulated his or her diagnosis. Too often, shortcuts lead in the wrong direction.
 As a young doctor, I had an elderly patient who complained of discomfort under her breastbone. I examined her, performed several tests and quickly concluded that she had indigestion. The antacids I prescribed brought little relief, but my mind was so fixed that her persistent complaints sounded to me like a nail scratching a chalkboard.
 Several weeks later, I was paged to the emergency room. The woman was in shock. The discomfort under her breastbone, it turned out, had been caused by a tear in her aorta. After she died, my colleagues commiserated, saying that a torn aorta can be hard to diagnose, that the woman was so old that she probably would not have survived surgery to repair the tear. But that provided cold comfort, and I have never forgotten, nor forgiven myself.
 In some hospitals, mistakes are categorized as ''E.T.'' for errors in technique and ''E.J.'' for errors in judgment. Errors in technique might involve placing a needle too far into the chest and puncturing a lung or inserting a breathing tube into the esophagus instead of the trachea -- mistakes that, with practice, doctors can learn to stop making. 
 Errors in judgment are not so easily avoided, because we have largely failed to learn anything about how we think. Modern clinical practice has incorporated DNA analysis to illuminate the causes of disease, robotics to facilitate operations in the brain and computers to refine M.R.I. images, but we have paid scant attention to the emerging science of cognitive psychology, which could help us explore how we make decisions. 
 This science has grown from the work of Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman, who some three decades ago began a series of experiments to examine how people make choices when they are uncertain. Economists have used their work to understand why people in the marketplace often make irrational decisions. People invest in a company because their relatives did in the past, for example, or they choose a fund manager simply because he outperformed the market two years in a row. 
 This growing body of research can illuminate many irrational aspects of medical decision-making, too. The snap judgments that doctors make, for example, can be understood as ''anchoring errors''; the first symptoms anchor the doctor's mind on an incorrect diagnosis. Doctors also fall into a cognitive trap known as ''availability,'' meaning that we too readily recall our most recent or dramatic clinical experiences and assume they correspond to a new patient's problem.
 We make ''affective'' errors, too, letting our feelings color our thinking. Such feelings may be drawn from stereotypes -- the Connecticut pediatrician casting my wife as overanxious or my viewing my elderly patient as a chronic complainer -- or they may be excessively positive. Too much empathy may keep a doctor from performing an uncomfortable procedure that is vital to making the correct diagnosis.
 I have started teaching these concepts of cognitive psychology in continuing medical education courses, and recently used my misdiagnosis of the torn aorta to illustrate the common thinking trap. My wife, Pam, has introduced fourth-year medical students at our hospital to the cognitive detours doctors commonly take. But such instruction needs to be widespread. In classes and on hospital rounds, medical schools and hospitals should teach doctors why some diagnoses succeed and why some fail. And as part of the assessment of clinical competency for obtaining a license, doctors should be expected to demonstrate their fluency in the application of cognitive science, as they are required to do in other sciences. 
 Once we are schooled in the way we think, we will also be better able to answer questions from patients and their families about how we arrive at our diagnoses. And that may make everyone more confident about visiting a clinic or a hospital in July. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGENCY ROOMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); CHILDREN (87%); HOSPITALS (77%); PATHOLOGY (77%); PEDIATRICS (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (73%); TEST LABORATORIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007



118 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: The Pirates' McClatchy Resigns Amid Losing Year

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, July 6 

 BODY:
Kevin McClatchy not only preserved baseball in Pittsburgh as the Pirates' owner, but he also accomplished what was once seen as the impossible by getting a new stadium, PNC Park, built.
 McClatchy later persuaded Commissioner Bud Selig to bring the All-Star game back to town only 12 years after it had last been played there. He helped oversee one of the city's largest urban development projects in decades, the growth that has occurred around PNC Park and the Steelers' Heinz Field.
 Only one thing went wrong: the Pirates never won under McClatchy. 
 McClatchy, a newspaper heir widely credited with preventing the Pirates from leaving Pittsburgh by assembling an ownership group in 1996 when no one else would, announced yesterday that he was stepping down as the team's chief executive officer at the end of the season.
 The Pirates are on pace for a 15th consecutive losing season, one short of the major league record. If they do not have a winning record this season, it will be their 12th consecutive losing record under McClatchy. ''I take responsibility for the losing, that's probably in some ways reason for a change,'' McClatchy told The Associated Press. ''It's good to turn the page, have a fresh perspective.''
 The 44-year-old McClatchy lost a majority ownership stake in the club to the West Virginia newspaper owner G. Ogden Nutting several years ago, and in January he was supplanted by Nutting's son, Bob, as principal owner. McClatchy initially knew the elder Nutting through their newspaper ties and brought him into his ownership group.
 ''Why now? Because now is the right time,'' McClatchy said. ''I remember a quote from a long time ago: John Madden said you get about 10 years in the frying pan and then, after a while, you start to get burned out.''
 McClatchy, who grew up in the San Francisco area, became one of the youngest owners in major league history when his group officially completed the purchase in February 1996. The club -- formerly owned by a cross-section of Pittsburgh businessmen and corporations -- had been for sale for nearly 18 months.
 ''Kevin McClatchy saved the Pittsburgh Pirates,'' Selig said Friday in a statement. ''He assumed control of the franchise amid considerable turmoil and during the worst economic period in baseball history.''
 Bob Nutting said that the search would not be limited to baseball executives, and that McClatchy's successor will have full control of the Pirates' front office. That executive's chief objective, Nutting said, will be to bring a winning team to Pittsburgh.
 McClatchy took months to assemble a group that finally bought the Pirates for about $95 million, about one-third the current value. At the time, no other group or individual was interested in buying the team. The N.L. president Len Coleman helped guide McClatchy's group through the sale process so the team would not be forced to relocate.
 ''If it weren't for Kevin McClatchy, there would be no PNC Park -- and no Pittsburgh Pirates,'' the former mayor Tom Murphy said upon leaving office last year.
 While the Pirates stayed in Pittsburgh under McClatchy, they did not prosper on the field. McClatchy was not privately wealthy, and the club's payroll was annually among the lowest in the majors except for a brief period in 2001, when the Pirates moved into PNC Park. Building one of the majors' best ballparks might be viewed as McClatchy's chief accomplishment.
 The Pirates have contended only once under McClatchy, in 1997, when a team with the majors' lowest payroll stayed in the N.L. Central race until the final week of the season until losing out to Houston. 
 ''Any organization, whether it's a baseball team or a grocery chain, having a C.E.O. for 10 years generally is a long time,'' McClatchy said. ''But I think we have done some good things, whether it's the ballpark, whether it's the North Shore development, the All-Star game, keeping the team in Pittsburgh -- some things that are pretty good.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CITIES (72%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (64%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH PIRATES (94%); PITTSBURGH STEELERS (57%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007



119 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: A Rush to Supply Cash to Lend to Poor Corporate Credit Risks

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
NEVER have investors been more eager to put up money to be lent to poor corporate credits. That fact, in part a result of financial alchemy that allows those who put up the cash to think they have investment-grade investments, helps to explain the boom in leveraged buyouts. 
 In the quarter that just ended, the total value of leveraged loans in the United States rose to a record $204 billion, according to figures compiled by Standard & Poor's and shown in the accompanying charts. In the first six months, loan volume came to $390 billion, more than in any full year before 2006.
 Lending in other markets is also rising rapidly. S.& P. says $155 billion was lent outside the United States in the leveraged loan market during the first half of 2007, up 80 percent from the same period in 2006.
 As June ended, the leveraged loan market began to look a little nervous, as some deals were postponed, and spreads -- the difference in what the market charged on such loans relative to the rates banks themselves pay -- rose slightly, although they remained at historically low levels.
 ''I think spreads will have to widen,'' said Robert Polenberg, a director of S.& P.'s leveraged commentary and data unit. He pointed to a backlog of $215 billion in loans being marketed, including the buyouts of Chrysler and First Data. ''That is a lot of money to place,'' he said.
 The role of leveraged buyouts in the market is greater than ever before. S.& P. reports that 42 percent of the second-quarter loans went to finance such buyouts, largely by private equity firms.
 There was a time when such loans were mostly made by banks, and syndicated to other banks if the risk was transferred at all. But now most such loans are financed through collateralized loan obligations, known as C.L.O.'s. 
 Most of the money raised by C.L.O.'s is borrowed in securities rated investment grade, even though the loans they are financing are decidedly not investment grade. That is because the higher-rated tranches have first call on loan repayments, and thus would not suffer unless many of the loans went into default. 
 Defaults have not been a problem in this cycle, as a chart indicates. The default rate has fallen to historic lows -- just 0.16 percent over the last 12 months -- reflecting both a strong economy and a generous credit market that has been willing to refinance loans if companies did run into problems.
 There has been a surge of lending in what bankers call ''covenant-lite'' loans in 2007. That means that there are no loan covenants that require the borrower to maintain specific financial ratios, as used to be standard. In 2004, there were just $100 million of such loans. But the total rose to $2.4 billion in 2005, $23.6 billion last year and $103.9 billion in the first half of this year.
 In practice, that means the companies that run into trouble need not consult their previous lenders. Mr. Polenberg of S.& P. notes that early in this decade, lenders collected significant fees for amending covenants when defaults rose and the economy weakened. ''When the cycle turns this time, there will be no fees,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Charts: ''Leveraged Loan Volume Soars as Defaults Nearly Vanish''. (Source: Standard & Poor's Leveraged Commentary and Data) Bar Chart shows U.S. leveraged loans made., by quarter. Line Chart #1 shows Leveraged Buyout Loans as Percent of Total Line Chart #2 shows Percentage of Leveraged Loans Outstanding in Default, Monthly. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); SYNDICATED LOANS (76%); STATISTICS (76%); CREDIT BUREAUS (76%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (76%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007



120 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Health Officials Lower Estimate of India's H.I.V. Cases by Half

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
India has only about 2.5 million people infected with H.I.V., less than half of previous estimates, the Indian health minister and United Nations health officials said yesterday. 
 As a result, instead of having an estimated 5.7 million cases, the most in the world, India is now in third place, behind South Africa, with 5.5 million, and Nigeria, with 2.9 million.
 In the past, India was accused by many global AIDS officials of denying its epidemic and doing too little to prevent it. Now some Indian political figures and American epidemiologists have been vindicated.
 However, the health minister, Dr. Anbumani Ramadoss, was quick to say that the threat, while smaller, was still serious.
 ''In terms of human lives affected, the number is still large, in fact very large,'' Dr. Ramadoss said at a news conference in New Delhi, Reuters reported. ''This is very worrying for us.''
 The estimate was revised downward, the United Nations AIDS program, Unaids, said, because of a national survey, including blood samples, of more than 100,000 people taken in 2005 and 2006. Called the National Family Health Survey III, it was paid for largely by the United States Agency for International Development. 
 Previous estimates had been based on blood samples taken from women visiting prenatal clinics, patients at sexually transmitted disease clinics and small samplings in high-risk groups like prostitutes, truckers, intravenous drug users and gay men. 
 But the mathematical models inflated nationwide prevalence rates because there were few samples from men, rural dwellers, the middle class and people outside industrialized southern India and the Myanmar border, where the disease is concentrated.
 The new survey suggests that India's epidemic is more like that in the United States, concentrated in high-risk groups, rather than like the generalized epidemics in southern Africa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); EPIDEMICS (89%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (78%); AIDS POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); MATHEMATICS (67%); MODELING & SIMULATION (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) SOUTH INDIA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); NIGERIA (92%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007



121 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Chicago Mercantile Raises Offer, Again

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: CHICAGO, 

 BODY:
The parent of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange has raised its offer to buy the Chicago Board of Trade for the third time, acting Friday just three days before a shareholder vote on the long-planned acquisition. 
 The sweetened bid is aimed at fending off for good a challenge by IntercontinentalExchange Inc., an electronic energy exchange based in Atlanta. IntercontinentalExchange has been seeking since March to buy CBOT Holdings, the Chicago Board of Trade's parent.
 The new offer would give CBOT shareholders a 36 percent ownership stake in the combined exchange, up from 35 percent under the previous agreement. All other terms remain the same.
 It closes the $1 billion gap between the competing offers, making them comparable in size, depending on fluctuating stock prices. The bid from Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings was valued at $11.3 billion on Friday morning, compared with $11.4 billion for the bid from IntercontinentalExchange.
 The latest bid was enough to win over CBOT's largest shareholder, the Caledonia Investments Group, a company in Sydney, Australia, that had opposed the merger. 
 Caledonia said in a statement released shortly after Chicago Mercantile Exchange raised its bid that it supported the combination and ''encourages all other shareholders to vote'' on Monday in favor of the deal. 
 Four proxy advisory firms have already endorsed the combination.
 A spokeswoman for IntercontinentalExchange did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Friday.
 Executives of the Mercantile Exchange and the Board of Trade, rivals dating to the 19th century, first agreed to combine last October before Intercontinental complicated their plans. Pairing the two futures and options markets would create the world's largest futures market for everything from interest rates to pork bellies.
 Some financial firms have complained that the Merc-CBOT merger would slow competition and raise trading costs. But federal regulators signed off on the proposed combination last month.
 Shares of CBOT jumped $17.85, or 8.66 percent, to $224 at closing on Friday, while those of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange rose $19.11, or 3.44 percent, to $574.80. IntercontinentalExchange rose $4.28, or 2.82 percent, to $156.09.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Mercantile Exchange stepped up its efforts to acquire the Chicago Board of Trade, above, just days before a shareholder vote on the deal. (Photograph by Charles Rex Arbogast/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); FUTURES (89%); MERGERS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PORK (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (98%); INTERCONTINENTALEXCHANGE INC (86%); CALEDONIA INVESTMENTS PLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (98%); ICE (NYSE) (86%); CLDN (LSE) (55%); CDN (NZX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (98%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (98%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (54%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007



122 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Tupperware Freshens Up The Party

BYLINE: By AMY CORTESE

 BODY:
Few products have had such enduring popularity and persistence in pop culture as Tupperware, the plastic storage containers introduced to American housewives 60 years ago. Recently, two new plays about Tupperware have been staged in New York: ''Sealed for Freshness,'' about a Tupperware party gone awry (it closed in April), and ''Dixie's Tupperware Party,'' a monologue by a drag queen who in real life was a top Tupperware salesman (currently playing off Off Broadway). 
 The Tupperware Brands Corporation, based in Orlando, Fla., has been on a mission to update its Betty Crocker image, introducing hip products and courting celebrities. It sponsored a baby shower for Tori Spelling, and Brooke Shields is the spokeswoman for its Chain of Confidence charity, which works to educate and build bonds among women. 
 The strategy seems to be working. Shares of Tupperware, the direct marketing company, are trading at their highest point in a decade. The company bought a beauty division from Sara Lee in 2005. The chief executive, E. V. Goings, spoke about developments recently from South Africa, where he was meeting with a sales crew. 
 Q. Is the Tupperware party still going strong? 
 A. The Tupperware brand is seeing the strongest growth it's seen in 15 years. Every 2.3 seconds, there's a party starting somewhere. What is amazing about it is where they are happening -- they're happening in Zululand in South Africa, where I am. The fastest-growing markets for us are Russia, Turkey, China and India, where there are limited earning opportunities for women. But we've also seen double digits this past year in the U.S. and Canada, where we've been for 60 years. 
 Q. Tell me about your efforts to update the image of Tupperware, which for many people conjures up nostalgic 1950s kitsch?. 
 A. Since we spun the company off from Premark International in 1995, the idea was to stay below the radar. We first had to contemporize the product line. We decided to give up the commodity ground on cheap plastic storage products and bags, which, by the way, aren't very good for the environment. 
 We still have wonderful Tupperware burping bowls -- they whisper now -- but we got into new categories, redefined the role of design and color. We're in microwave products that are made out of the same high-tech resin you find on the windshield of an F-18 fighter. We got into tabletop items, and exotic new products for storage, like FridgeSmart, which doubles the shelf life of produce. Americans throw away about a third of all they buy. 
 That took about 10 years. Then we had to change the party, which was also dated. It was for stay-at-home moms, and they had a kaffeeklatsch. There's still some of those, but its more a girls' night out, much more themed, fun things -- like what you'd do at a book club. We had to do all of that stuff first before we could even update the image. 
 Q. Do recent Tupperware products reflect a more modern design sensibility?
 A. In the past, the engineers and designers were all guys. We didn't have enough home economists, female designers and international designers. Now our head of design is a woman, and a lot is coming out of Europe, Scandinavia and Japan. We still want our products to be functional, but we want them to be fun and fashionable as well. 
 Q. What is driving Tupperware shares? 
 A. The stock is at a 10- or 11-year high. When we talk to investors, we ask them what they like about the company, and they say cash flow, brand name and the fact that we now have a big footprint in the beauty business. 
 Q. You have 1.9 million independent sales representatives. Is it hard to recruit?
 A. It's getting easier, the more we're viewed as having contemporary products with a contemporary selling situation. What's driving our U.S. sales growth is, we're getting better educated, more committed people, so their productivity is going up and recruiting has gotten better. 
 Q. How much can a sales representative earn? 
 A. A party in the U.S., around $400. And she can make $100 to $150 for a party that lasts 90 minutes. They can also build their own sales organization -- we have women that make $50,000 to $70,000 a year, and some, who build their own sales organizations, are making more than $1 million. It gives women opportunity, especially in developing countries. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: E. V. Goings 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIRECT TO HOME RETAILING (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); WOMEN (78%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); DIRECT MARKETING (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: TUPPERWARE BRANDS CORP (71%)

TICKER: TUP (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (71%); NAICS326199 ALL OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (71%)

PERSON: RICK GOINGS (73%); E V GOINGS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); SOUTH AFRICA (87%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%); INDIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007



123 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Counting on Failure, Energy Chairman Floats Carbon Tax

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 6 

 BODY:
A powerful House Democrat said on Friday that he planned to propose a steep new ''carbon tax'' that would raise the cost of burning oil, gas and coal, in a move that could shake up the political debate on global warming. 
 The proposal came from Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and it runs directly counter to the view of most Democrats that any tax on energy would be a politically disastrous approach to slowing global warming.
 But Mr. Dingell, in an interview to be broadcast Sunday on C-Span, suggested that his goal was to show that Americans are not willing to face the real cost of reducing carbon dioxide emissions. His message appeared to be that Democratic leaders were setting unrealistic legislative goals.
 ''I sincerely doubt that the American people will be willing to pay what this is really going to cost them,'' said Mr. Dingell, whose committee will be drafting a broad bill on climate change this fall.
 ''I will be introducing in the next little bit a carbon tax bill, just to sort of see how people think about this,'' he continued. ''When you see the criticism I get, I think you'll see the answer to your question.''
 The idea behind a carbon tax is to provide an incentive to reduce the use of fossil fuels like oil and coal, which are loaded with carbon, and increase the use of cleaner, renewable fuels like solar power, wind and fuels made from plants and plant waste. 
 Many economists like the idea of a carbon tax, saying that it would be simple to administer and could profoundly affect energy choices.
 But most Democrats are staunchly opposed, saying that a tax would raise the costs of travel, commuting and heating and cooling homes, and that it would be wildly unpopular at a time when voters are already angry about high energy costs. Republicans, they said, would seize on any such proposal as proof that Democrats were bent on raising taxes and increasing the size of government.
 Indeed, many Democrats still cringe at the memory of President Bill Clinton's trying to pass a broad ''B.T.U. tax'' in 1993 on most forms of energy. The measure passed the House but not the Senate, and more than a few Democrats believe the effort was one reason they lost their majority in the House in 1994.
 Now, House and Senate Democrats are writing bills that would require factories and power plants to reduce emissions of heat-trapping gases through a so-called cap-and-trade system of mandatory requirements and tradeable pollution credits.
 Most of the proposals would impose mandatory limits on the amount of carbon dioxide that companies would be allowed to produce each year, and those limits would become steadily more rigorous over time. A factory or a power plant that is already below the limit could sell its unused allocations to companies that were over the limit.
 The United States already uses a cap-and-trade system to limit emissions of sulfur dioxide and other pollutants that cause acid rain. 
 The European Union has adopted a system to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, though the system has come under considerable criticism for letting companies game the rules and for failing to reduce emissions in line with European goals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); TAX LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); HVAC SYSTEMS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); SOLAR ENERGY (71%); BIOFUELS (64%)

PERSON: JOHN DINGELL (78%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007



124 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: Politics and the Yuan

 BODY:
Just in time for the presidential campaign, Barack Obama has joined Hillary Clinton on the misguided bandwagon of those seeking to penalize China for manipulating its currency. Last week, the two senators and Democratic candidates signed up as co-sponsors to a punish-China bill that would mandate retaliation against countries that keep their currencies cheap to boost their exports. 
 It is a predictable move at a time when voters are so anxious about low wages and holding on to their jobs. (Senator Clinton had already co-sponsored two even harsher anti-China bills in 2003 and 2005. ) China's cheap currency and vast trade surplus, which matches up nicely with America's gargantuan trade deficit, are easy to blame. 
 Still, the prescription is wrongheaded. There is no guarantee that a rise in the value of the yuan would, on its own, boost American workers' wages or the economy in any significant way. Many of the things China exports to the United States have not been made in America for a long time. Forcing China to revalue the yuan would likely also lead to higher prices for goods in the United States and to a rise in interest rates if China decides to stop buying American Treasury bonds. 
 And it will complicate the management of a long list of nonfinancial issues the two nations urgently need to address. Washington needs to have what diplomats call a frank discussion with Beijing about its irresponsible export of poisonous toothpaste, dog food and toys and its piracy of American-produced software, movies and other goods. And Washington needs to encourage China to become a more constructive international player on issues from global warming to ending genocide in Darfur.
 The cheap yuan, together with America's voracious spending, are the main causes of the enormous imbalances that have developed in global trade and financial flows. It is certainly worth reminding China that artificially holding down the price of its currency and building an economy only on exports is also not in its long-term economic interest. Its growth must be rebalanced to rely more on the consumption of its own citizens. 
 Starting a trade war is not likely to change Beijing's mind. And it will make it harder to persuade and pressure China to become a more responsible exporter and a more responsible international player. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); BONDS (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); GENOCIDE (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (94%); SUDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007



125 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; WYANDANCH JOURNAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: They Want a New Post Office. A Fortress, Not So Much.

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

DATELINE: WYANDANCH, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 In places like this, where poor people live with a relentless scarcity of services (even the local McDonald's franchise couldn't make a go of it and closed 10 months ago), a post office seems to mean more than it does elsewhere. People without bank accounts go there to cash Social Security checks or buy money orders. And more so than in most communities on Long Island, people here pick up their mail at the post office because they fear thefts from their mailboxes.
 So it is not that people in this economically battered Long Island hamlet did not want a nice new post office. They did. 
 Nor was it the new building itself that angered them. It was the barbed-wire fence and the bulletproof glass the government proposed to install at the site.
 ''It's degrading,'' Felice Holder, a longtime resident who is an aide at a state institution for the disabled, said on Tuesday as she stood near the empty lot where the building is planned. ''You don't see barbed wire and bulletproof glass in other post offices. Why here? Because we are a poor black community?''
 The Postal Service says the precautions are necessary to protect employees working in one of the highest crime areas of Long Island. In January, an armed robber held up the small temporary post office in a strip mall next to a grocery store, two blocks from the proposed building, making off with $12,000. 
 Still, many residents here said they felt they were being racially stereotyped. 
 ''We have wanted a new post office for 10 years,'' said Sondra Cochran, a community activist. ''Now they give us this prison building. Putting the postal workers behind bulletproof glass -- that stigmatizes us. I'm sure we're not the only place in the world that's had a post office robbed.''
 Other post offices in the New York region have been robbed, though Tom Gaynor, a post office spokesman, said he did not know how many subsequently had bulletproof glass installed between postal workers and their customers. But he did note that barbed wire was fairly common, with 30 percent of the 80 post office parking lots on Long Island fenced in by barbed wire to protect postal vehicles.
 With bulldozers already clearing a lot in the center of Wyandanch's small downtown commercial strip, officials from the town of Babylon, which encompasses the hamlet, went to federal court this week to try to stop construction. 
 Steven Bellone, the town supervisor, testifying in Federal District Court in Central Islip on Tuesday, said that beyond the bulletproofing and the barbed-wire fencing, the post office blueprint ignored three years of local planning that envisioned shops, apartments and a pedestrian mall along the very street where the new construction was planned. He said the new building would be, in effect, ''a walled bunker'' in the middle of a downtown revitalization.
 Yet despite a series of letters, meetings and pleas made through the office of Steve Israel, the congressman who represents the area, Mr. Bellone said that postal officials have showed ''zero interest'' in modifying their plan to fit the aesthetic of the town's effort. 
 For their part, postal officials testified that they had followed all federal notification requirements, and had even held a public hearing in Wyandanch on the proposed building -- although in August 1999, when the plans were initially made. The barbed-wire fence and the bulletproof glass were not part of the plan then. Since that time, there was a three-year freeze on new construction, a revised plan issued in 2002, and another postponement that lasted until 2006. Through all the changes and delays, however, no other public hearings were held.
 Mr. Bellone said the impact of the 5,000-square-foot building fenced in and its traffic entrance and exits cutting through the heart of the envisioned pedestrian mall would be ''devastating.''
 Within Wyandanch, where the unemployment rate is chronically high, the busiest daytime gathering spots are the Suffolk County health clinic, known as the Martin Luther King Jr. Health Center, the Compare supermarket that opened to great fanfare a few years ago (20 years after the last supermarket in the hamlet closed its doors) and the temporary post office.
 The other day, an elderly woman stood at the end of a line there seven deep, behind a tall young man who wore a sweatshirt with the words ''Stop Snitchin'' emblazoned across the chest.
 The woman said she opened a post office box a few years ago after several Social Security checks mailed to her home disappeared from her mailbox. But she did not consider the place especially dangerous. 
 ''The community has been trying to get on its feet,'' said the woman, who identified herself as ''Mavis, No Last Name Please.'' A citizen beautification committee planted baskets of annuals on the new light posts along Straight Path, the main street, she pointed out. The town installed an elegant four-sided clock next to the health clinic, she noted.
 Moosoo Kwon, the owner of a beauty shop that sells wigs and hairpieces in town, stepped into line behind her. ''Yes, yes, town is trying hard,'' he said, picking up the thread of the conversation. ''Post office O.K.. But not if it looks like a cage, you know?''

GRAPHIC: Photo: The site where a post office will be built in Wyandanch, N.Y. Plans call for a barbed-wire fence, and the use of bulletproof glass. (Photograph by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRANCHISING (90%); POSTAL SERVICE (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (76%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); PRISONS (71%); RACE & RACISM (66%); ROBBERY (65%); RETAILERS (64%); DISABLED PERSONS (53%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (91%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (91%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007



126 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Reopens Diplomatic Unit In Guinea-Bissau, West Africa

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: BISSAU, Guinea-Bissau, July 7 

 BODY:
The United States reopened a diplomatic office here on Saturday after a decade of absence, amid fears that the West African country is becoming a growing hub for Latin American drug traffickers. 
 Washington closed its diplomatic mission in Bissau more than 10 years ago, shortly before a brief civil war. It has maintained diplomatic relations with the former Portuguese colony through its embassy in neighboring Senegal.
 ''Reopening this office paves the way for the reopening of a U.S. Embassy in Guinea-Bissau,'' Janice Jacobs, the United States ambassador to Senegal, said at a ribbon-cutting ceremony here.
 With its lawless, island-dotted Atlantic shoreline, Guinea-Bissau has become a major hub for smuggled Colombian cocaine on its way to lucrative markets in Europe and elsewhere, prompting calls for international action to stem the trade.
 Washington challenged the country's government last month over its firing of a police chief who won international praise for tackling Latin American cocaine traffickers.
 ''Narco-trafficking is a tremendous concern. The European Union has also expressed its concern, and we hear from a lot of citizens there that they are worried about it,'' said Claud Young, a spokesman for the United States Embassy in Dakar, Senegal.
 He said opening the diplomatic liaison office was part of a five-year program to return to a full diplomatic presence in Guinea-Bissau.
 The desperately poor country of fewer than 1.5 million people has had bouts of fighting and instability in the past four decades. Most of its people survive by fishing or growing cashew nuts.
 The instability, along with high-level corruption, makes it fertile ground for drugs and gangs, security experts say. Struggling with heavy debt and a collapsing economy, it has not paid public workers for months.
 Police in Senegal last week arrested seven people from countries including Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela after finding more than 2,400 kilograms of cocaine with a European street value of more than $200 million. They said it was their biggest-ever drug seizure.
 Officials said Guinea-Bissau was the entry point for the drugs after finding plane tickets from Rio de Janeiro to Bissau in documents that were seized.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); COCAINE (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); SMUGGLING (77%); POLICE FORCES (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); CORRUPTION (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); TRAVEL TICKETS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAKAR, SENEGAL (57%) GUINEA-BISSAU (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); WESTERN AFRICA (94%); SENEGAL (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); AFRICA (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ECUADOR (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



127 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3032 words

HEADLINE: For Elderly Investors, Instant Experts Abound

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUHIGG

 BODY:
Elderly clients thought they had every reason to trust Michael DelMonico as a financial counselor. After all, the Massachusetts insurance agent had become a certified senior adviser in 2002, a credential he made sure to advertise on fliers sent to retirees.
 He did not mention how easy it had been to get that title.
 He had paid $1,095 for a correspondence course, then took a multiple-choice exam with questions like, ''Marketing can best be described as:'' (The answer: ''The process or technique of promoting the sale or distribution of a product or service.'') Like more than 18,700 other applicants since 1997, he passed.
 Insurance companies, eager for sales representatives, embraced Mr. DelMonico, as they have thousands of other newly credentialed advisers. 
 The following year, insurers paid him commissions $720worth,000 as hisbusiness with retirees soared. 
 But many of those sales came from steering older Americans into unwise investments, Massachusetts regulators contend in a lawsuit. 
 Mr. DelMonico denies all wrongdoing, but one of his clients -- a 73-year-old widow caring for a son with Down syndrome -- said he tricked her into buying complicated insurance contracts that left her unable to pay dental and home-repair bills.
 ''His office was filled with things saying he was certified to help seniors,'' said that client, Mary Ann St. Clair. ''The only one he really helped was himself.''
 Mr. DelMonico is one of tens of thousands of financial advisers working hand-in-hand with insurance companies to market themselves to older Americans using impressive-sounding credentials like ''certified elder planning specialist,'' ''registered financial gerontologist,'' ''certified retirement financial adviser'' and ''certified senior adviser.'' 
 Many of these titles can be earned in just a few days from for-profit businesses, and sound similar to established credentials, like certified financial planner, that require years of study, difficult tests and extensive background checks.
 ''The degree isn't worth the paper it's written on,'' said T. Kevin McElreath, a financial adviser in Milford, Mass., who took the certified senior adviser exam but does not use the credential. For many agents, he said, ''it's a scam, a way to put a title on a business card that impresses gullible seniors.'' 
 Many graduates of these short programs say they only want to help older Americans. But they are frequently dispensing financial counsel they are unqualified to offer, advocates for the elderly say. And thousands of them are paid by some of the country's largest insurance companies -- including Allianz Life, Old Mutual Financial Network and American Equity Investment Life Insurance -- to sell elderly clients complicated investments that economists say most retirees should never own. 
 The prize for these insurers and sales agents is a piece of the $15 trillion held by Americans 65 and older, the largest pool of assets ever amassed by an aging population, according to the Government Accountability Office. 
 As older Americans' wealth has grown, so too have programs that offer quickly earned credentials or that teach agents how to sell to the elderly. The number of certified senior advisers has increased by 78 percent in the last five years. More than two dozen such programs now exist, and have enrolled more than 39,000 people over the last decade. As more baby boomers retire, the number of programs and enrollees is likely to grow significantly, analysts say.
 But some of the existing programs, which are often linked to insurance companies, have taught agents to use abusive sales techniques, regulators say.
 The insurers Allianz, Old Mutual and American Equity have been listed as sponsors at seminars with names like the Million Dollar Academy, where thousands of sales representatives were advised to scare retirees by saying, ''I am all that stands between you and potential catastrophic loss.'' Other seminars instructed agents to ''drive a wedge'' between retirees and their established advisers.
 ''The insurers are happy to turn a blind eye to what salesmen are doing, as long as they make a sale,'' said Minnesota's attorney general, Lori Swanson, who is suing several companies, including Allianz, contending their products are inappropriate. 
 Allianz, Old Mutual and American Equity, whose revenues last year were a combined $163 billion, said they investigate the backgrounds of all agents, screen all sales to consumers to make sure they are appropriate, and have terminated representatives using improper sales methods. Those companies said they were not aware of abusive methods taught at any seminar they endorsed. 
 In a statement, Allianz said the company did not tolerate misrepresentation. ''Allianz is a leader in education opportunities and quality for agents,'' the statement reads. Fewer than half of 1 percent of its customers have ever complained, according to the company. 
 Old Mutual, in a statement, said any evidence of sales agent misconduct, without exception, results in immediate termination.
 Nonetheless, complaints over sales of insurance products have soared. In particular, grievances have stemmed from annuities, which are insurance contracts that offer buyers monthly or yearly income in exchange for one large lump-sum payment and are designed to appeal to anyone worried they might outlive their savings.
 Over one-third of all cases of financial exploitation of the elderly involve annuities, according to the North American Securities Administrators Association, a group of regulators. Hundreds of lawsuits have been filed against insurers over annuity sales to the elderly. A judge in Minnesota ruled this year that just one class-action suit, against Allianz, could encompass as many as 400,000 plaintiffs.
 In interviews, sales agents who have been accused of wrongdoing said they followed the guidance of insurance companies. 
 ''I did what I was told,'' said Mr. DelMonico, before declining to discuss the lawsuit against him. ''If it was so wrong, why did everyone let me do it for so many years?'' 
 Products With Rich Commissions
 Annuities are among the insurance industry's fastest growing products, with sales increasing 30 percent since 2001, to $182.8 billion last year, according to the Insurance Information Institute.
 Regulators say annuities that begin paying immediately are often sound investments for retirees. A 73-year-old customer of one popular annuity, for instance, is guaranteed to begin immediately receiving $252 a month for life, in exchange for a $30,000 payment. If the buyer lives more than 10 years, that income is greater than the original amount paid.
 But the vast majority of annuity sales do not offer immediate payouts. Instead, they require buyers to wait as long as 10 years to begin receiving benefits. Such contracts, known as deferred annuities, made up 97 percent of all annuity sales last year. 
 Financial experts say deferred annuities are a good option for wealthy elderly investors looking for ways to transfer savings to their heirs while avoiding large tax payments. But for retirees living off their savings, most deferred annuities are a bad choice, experts say, because elderly buyers are likely to die before the contract begins paying out. 
 Deferred annuities, however, offer sales agents the richest commissions, which is one reason so many of them are sold every year, regulators say. Selling a $100,000 deferred annuity, for example, typically earns a sales representative $9,000, though buyers are prohibited from touching much of their money for 10 years. Annuities with shorter tie-ups carry much smaller commissions. 
 ''An annuity that pays a fixed immediate income offers seniors a lot of security,'' said Jean Setzfand, director of financial security with AARP, formerly known as the American Association of Retired Persons. ''But a deferred annuity is almost always a bad idea for a retiree.''
 Those concerns, however, have not stopped many insurance agents from aggressively selling deferred annuities.
 Some of those agents have been trained by organizations that require only a few days of classroom instruction. 
 For instance, the 1,200 people who have enrolled in the certified retirement financial adviser program spent only four days in a classroom, according to a spokesman. The president of that program, Larry Klein, was fined $150,000 in the mid-1990s by securities regulators after persuading an 83-year-old blind woman to speculate on New Zealand's currency.
 Mr. Klein, in an e-mail message, said the charges against him were untrue and that it was ''idiotic'' to assess a course based on its duration.
 Short Seminars Used for Training
 The Society of Certified Senior Advisers, which gave Mr. DelMonico his credentials, is a for-profit company that has trained 24,000 enrollees since it was started in 1997. Its founder, Edwin J. Pittock, is a former mutual fund executive who was twice suspended by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Mr. Pittock declined to return phone calls, though a representative said all regulatory actions were settled without admission of wrongdoing.
 The society's course lasts three and a half days, according to recent participants, and includes uplifting lectures, overviews on the sociology of aging and exercises including peering through vision-blurring lenses to get a sense of how some clients' eyesight can falter.
 ''It really opened my empathy for what seniors go through,'' said Rick Hoogendoorn, a real estate agent and former financial adviser in Victoria, British Columbia. 
 Regulators, however, are more critical of such programs. 
 ''There are limitless combinations of words getting invented to convey an expertise in senior finances,'' said the Massachusetts securities regulator, William F. Galvin. ''Most of them seem designed to trick seniors into listening to swindlers.'' 
 A representative for the Society of Certified Senior Advisers said the program's courses and questions were written and evaluated by experts. In a statement, the company said its training was intended to supplement, not substitute for, professional credentials and education. The organization began asking titleholders in March to disclose to potential clients that ''the C.S.A. designation alone does not imply expertise in financial, health or social matters.'' 
 Despite that disclaimer, the company has trained thousands of insurance agents and other financial advisers. And about 100 companies, many of them insurers, endorse the certified senior adviser designation, said Dan Danbom, a spokesman for the group.
 ''Insurers and financial service companies are big supporters of the C.S.A.,'' he added.
 Until last month -- after the group was contacted by a reporter -- the Society of Certified Senior Advisers did not verify employment histories, or whether applicants had criminal records or even high school degrees, a representative said. So when Mr. DelMonico applied in 2002, the group did not know he had been fired by one employer for selling an unauthorized annuity and left another after he was accused of forging a client's signature, an allegation he has denied. 
 Soon after he received his designation as a certified senior adviser, Mr. DelMonico started displaying it in ads and on letters inviting retirees to seminars over free chicken lunches, according to Massachusetts regulators. 
 At those meetings, Mr. DelMonico told retirees that they were perilously close to financial calamity, according to Masschusetts regulators and attendees. He warned them that the stock market's ability to offset inflation was ''a big lie,'' according to documents collected by those regulators. Banks contained ''weapons of mass destruction,'' read one handout. 
 But annuities, Mr. DelMonico noted, offered guaranteed returns, attendees said. At the time, he was authorized to sell annuities offered by Old Mutual, Allianz, the American International Group, John Hancock Insurance, Jackson National Insurance, Pacific Life Insurance and more than two dozen other companies, state records show.
 Mr. DelMonico's script, Massachusetts regulators say, used materials from another training company, Piece of Pie Strategic Coaching, a Minnesota company that had listed Allianz, Old Mutual and more than a dozen other insurers as ''partners'' or ''carriers'' on the company's Web site. 
 That Web site was changed to remove mention of insurers after the company was contacted by a reporter. A Piece of Pie executive said the company's relationships with insurers were through an intermediary.
 There are hundreds of companies like Piece of Pie that teach sales agents how to find retirees willing to buy annuities. Many of them are paid by insurance companies that count on such organizations to recruit and train independent sales agents. Allianz, for instance, relies exclusively on 155,000 independent agents working through 300 outside organizations, all of them receiving a payment when an annuity sale occurs.
 Allianz said it did not endorse Piece of Pie, although the insurer continues to work with a company affiliated with the program.
 Piece of Pie was founded by Michael Kaselnak, who was fined by regulators in 2001 for selling improper financial products. 
 Mr. Kaselnak said that Mr. DelMonico quit Piece of Pie about three months ago, after he was sued by Massachusetts regulators, and that the Piece of Pie program focused on ethical business practices. 
 Old Mutual, Allianz and American Equity say they endorse only training programs that are committed to ethical sales tactics and that their support is often limited to providing speakers or marketing materials. But they acknowledge that they cannot always police how agents present themselves. 
 Regulators assert that insurance companies use independent sales agents because they hope to escape responsibility for the unscrupulous tactics they know are used. 
 ''If insurers would cut off these companies, this behavior would end tomorrow. Instead, they just close their eyes or say it's not their fault when a supposedly rogue sales agent misbehaves,'' said Jim Nelson, an assistant secretary of state in Mississippi. ''It's scandalous that the insurance companies are working with these marketing organizations.'' 
 Many elderly buyers of annuities agree, and say they have been treated as callously by their insurance companies as they were by deceptive sales agents. 
 Before Mrs. St. Clair accepted an invitation to one of Mr. DelMonico's seminars in 2002, she had never balanced her checkbook. Her husband died of colon cancer six months earlier. Though she had raised five children, including a son with Down syndrome, she knew almost nothing about her family's finances.
 Mrs. St. Clair soon asked Mr. DelMonico to handle her $75,000 savings.
 ''All these insurance companies had trusted him, so I knew that I could trust him, too,'' she said. ''And when he became a certified senior adviser, I felt good, because he had gone to school for a long time.''
 Mr. DelMonico transferred much of Mrs. St. Clair's savings into deferred annuities sold by Old Mutual. Those contracts, which were impossible to cancel without paying large penalties, prevented Mrs. St. Clair from receiving the annuity's payouts for five years, unless she paid significant fees. 
 In October, Mrs. St. Clair's dentist told her she needed a $3,200 bridge replacement. The same week, repairmen said she needed a new furnace and gutter work that would cost a combined $6,500. 
 She contacted Old Mutual and explained she had never intended to buy the annuities. 
 ''I am 72 years old and need access to my money now,'' she wrote, according to a copy of her letter given to The New York Times. She wrote that the contracts were never fully explained to her, a claim Mr. DelMonico denies.
 Old Mutual initially denied her request. An executive told her they had contacted Mr. DelMonico and were siding with his account that the annuities were sold properly. 
 Such rebuffs to complaints are common, regulators and plaintiff's lawyers say.
 Dozens of lawsuits against insurers contend that those companies failed to adequately supervise sales agents who sold inappropriate annuities to aging clients and then did not act when buyers complained. 
 Allianz, Old Mutual and other insurers, in court filings and interviews, say they spend millions of dollars supervising sales agents and investigating consumer complaints.
 ''We've gone above and beyond what regulators require to make sure these things are sold appropriately,'' said Tom Burns, chief distribution officer for Allianz Life. 
 When Old Mutual learned that Massachusetts regulators had sued Mr. DelMonico in March, the company cut its ties to him and refunded Mrs. St. Clair's money. Old Mutual was not named as defendant in that suit.
 Mrs. St. Clair said her complaints alone should have spurred the company to action.
 ''How many other seniors have been tricked into these things but are ignored when they complain?'' she asked.
 In a statement, Old Mutual said the company had no documentation of misconduct by Mr. DelMonico until regulators filed their suit, which contained evidence that he had lied.
 Tougher Rules Introduced
 In contrast to companies like Old Mutual, some insurance companies, and some state regulators, have changed the rules governing how annuity sales agents can behave.
 This year, Massachusetts prohibited most financial advisers from using titles like certified senior adviser unless they were recognized by an accreditation organization or the state. Last year, MetLife and Genworth Financial, two of the largest insurers, told sales agents they could not use the designation of certified senior adviser.
 But in most other states and at most insurance companies, sales representatives can use any title they choose. 
 For his part, Mr. DelMonico, while he awaits the outcome of his case, is still approved to sell annuities by American Equity and more than two dozen other insurers, according to state records.
 ''I just got my insurance license renewed in Rhode Island,'' Mr. DelMonico said in an interview. ''Business is still pretty good.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: A LONG STRUGGLE Mary Ann St. Clair with Stephen, her son who has Down syndrome. She had to go to state regulators to recover $75,000. (Photograph by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (90%); AGING (90%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); SALES FORCE (78%); SALES & SELLING (75%); LIFE INSURANCE (73%); DISTANCE LEARNING (71%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (69%); LITIGATION (67%); DOWN SYNDROME (52%)

COMPANY: ALLIANZ SE (58%); AMERICAN EQUITY INVESTMENT LIFE HOLDING CO (50%)

TICKER: ALV (FRA) (58%); ALV (BIT) (58%); AEL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



128 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Lisa Mueller, Kristoffer Welsien

 BODY:
Lisa Marie Mueller, a daughter of Mary E. Mueller and Michael D. Mueller of Richmond, Va., was married on Friday afternoon to Kristoffer Welsien, a son of Kirsten Schmidt of Varde, Denmark, and Johannes Welsien of Nordborg, Denmark. The Rev. Joseph Narog, a Roman Catholic priest, officiated at St. Augustine's Church in Andover, Mass. 
 Mrs. Welsien, 26, is a teacher of 12th-grade economics and government at the High School for Leadership and Public Service in New York. In September, she will begin teaching social studies at the Maya Angelou Public Charter School, a high school in Washington. She graduated from Syracuse and has a master's degree in education from Harvard. 
 Mr. Welsien, 29, is an economist with the World Bank in Washington, working in the social development department. From 1997 to 1999 he was a sergeant in the Danish Royal Guards, training soldiers to guard Queen Margrethe II. He graduated from Aalborg University in Denmark, where he also received a master's degree in economics. He has a second master's, in economics and econometrics, from the University of Essex in Colchester, England. He is a stepson of Marianne Welsien and of Hans Christian Schmidt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (76%); RELIGION (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (54%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (54%)

PERSON: MARGRETHE II, QUEEN OF DENMARK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (55%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); DENMARK (92%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



129 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER LODGING AT NATIONAL PARKS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Canyons and Geysers Are Still Within Reach

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
IT is not too late to find a room at a national park this season. While swarms of camera-toting tourists and caravans of RVs fill up popular park lodges each summer, the number of people visiting the parks has been on a slow decline for the last several years -- down about 5 percent to 273 million visitors last year, from the peak in 1999. Procrastinators can still find space if they're willing to be flexible. 
 A search for rooms at various parks around the country in the last week of June turned up a range of options. Xanterra.com, an online reservation site for several national parks, showed openings on the second and third weekends in July at Bryce Canyon National Park in Utah, where rooms start at $115 a night at Bryce Canyon Lodge. At Yellowstone, the second-to-last weekend in August was available at Lake Yellowstone Hotel and Cabins, where rooms range from $106 to $500 a night. At Mesa Verde in Colorado, the Far View, the only lodge in the park, is even having a sale. It has slashed rates from $118 to $49 a night for each Thursday through July and August. 
 Some accommodations, like Lewis Mountain Cabins and Skyland Resort in Shenandoah National Park, had limited availability on the weekends but still had spots open Sunday through Thursday. Others had plenty of empty rooms, but they were scattered sporadically throughout the summer. 
 For example, both the Maswik and Yavapai Lodges, near the South Rim of the Grand Canyon, with rooms starting at $78 and $98 a night, were still showing availability on many nights for the rest of the summer. But finding accommodations for a multiple-night stay can be tricky. For instance, Maswik, half a mile from the canyon rim, was showing as many as 40 rooms available on Thursday, Aug. 2. But only a couple of rooms were open for the nights on either side of that date. 
 Don't expect to get into the most coveted accommodations at the most popular parks. All the lodges overlooking the South Rim of the Grand Canyon, including El Tovar and Bright Angel, have been sold out for months. But in general, you're most likely to find availability the last week of August and first week of September. 
 That's when families are getting ready for school and just before retiree travel picks up after Labor Day, said Kevin Dillman, director of central reservations at Xanterra Parks and Resorts, which operates accommodations at six national parks. Zion Lodge, for instance, the only lodge in Zion National Park in Utah, had several rooms available Aug. 26, 29 and 31, ranging in price from $151 for a motel-style room to $161 for a cabin. 
 In Yellowstone, you can generally find space at Grant Village or Mammoth Hot Springs Hotel and Cabins the last week in August. ''We will not sell out at Grant Village on the Wednesday and Thursday, for sure,'' said Rick Hoeninghausen, director of sales and marketing for Yellowstone at Xanterra Parks and Resorts. ''That's a fairly safe bet.''
 If you're willing to stay outside the park, your options quickly broaden. Aysgarth Station Bed and Breakfast in Bar Harbor, Me., within seven miles of three different entrances to Acadia National Park, had at least one room available nearly every week this summer. Prices range from $115 to $135 a night. Yosemite Big Creek Inn, a B&B just two miles from the South Gate of Yosemite National Park, had a couple of weeks available in August. (Rates start at $159 a night.) So did the Paradise Gateway Bed and Breakfast, 20 miles from the North Entrance to Yellowstone, with rates starting at $85 a night. To find other bed-and-breakfasts located near parks, check www.bnbfinder.com/parks/. 
 Choice Hotels offers a guide to hotels near parks at its Web site, www.choicehotels.com (under ''point of interest,'' type the name of the park you want to visit). At the end of June, the Econo Lodge Inn and Suites in Kalispell, Mont., near Glacier National Park, with rooms starting at $119 a night, was half empty for the rest of the summer. The Comfort Inn Yellowstone North in Gardiner, Mont., with rooms from $149 a night, was packed until July 7 but was about 80 percent full for the remainder of the summer. One tip for this hotel: Call two weeks before you want to stay to check for cancellations. That's when travel agents who have reserved blocks of rooms cancel their unsold inventory. 
 The four hotels operated by Aramark Harrison Lodging near the entrance to Denali National Park and Preserve in Alaska were 85 percent full about eight months before the start of the summer season. But at the beginning and the end of August ''there is plenty of room'' and rates are as low as $90 a night, said Brian Murphy, national director of marketing at Aramark, which manages accommodations in, or just outside, five national parks.
 Visitors to the Grand Canyon can stay at the Railway Hotel in the ponderosa pine forest of Williams, Ariz., and take its train straight to the South Rim of the Canyon -- a trip of 65 miles that takes 2 hours and 15 minutes. The hotel, which was only about 50 percent full for July and August, is offering a Railway Getaway that includes a one-night stay at the hotel, breakfast and dinner at a restaurant adjacent to the depot, and round-trip coach-class train travel. The price is $159 per adult, double occupancy. 
 If you're determined to stay at an in-park lodge, keep calling. ''At the popular parks, people make reservations a long way out as a contingency,'' said Mr. Murphy at Aramark. ''There can be a lot of churn within those parks, so keep checking Internet sites or call centers because someone is bound to cancel.''
 Travelers might also get in at the last minute by booking with tour operators, which tend to buy rooms in bulk months in advance. At the end of June, Globus, for example, still had spots available in August for its $1,800 10-day America's National Parks trip, with two nights in Yellowstone. There was also a little space left in July and August on its $1,639 eight-day Canyon Country Adventure, which includes one night's lodging on the rim of the Grand Canyon. 
 And if all else fails, you can try just showing up. ''People move, they check out early, plans change,'' said Mr. Hoeninghausen, who heads up sales for Yellowstone lodging, ''You could walk in today and potentially get a room at the Old Faithful Inn.''
 Bottom line: ''We hardly ever start the day sold out,'' he said, ''but we usually end the day sold out.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing by Lars Leetaru 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); RESORTS (78%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); US LABOR DAY (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



130 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: As China's Economy Roars, Consumers Lack Defenders

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, July 7 

 BODY:
For weeks, as questions have multiplied over the safety of China's exports of food and other consumer goods, the Chinese news media have had a consistent refrain.
 American complaints about China's products are part of a mounting trade war. They are the expression of efforts by Westerners to keep China down, to invent what the news media here have called a ''China threat'' to manipulate public opinion.
 Exceptions can be found to this line, particularly regarding safety issues involving Chinese-made toothpastes, which importers around the world recently discovered often contain diethylene glycol, a poisonous chemical that tastes sweet, like its more expensive cousin, glycerin. Panama last year inadvertently mixed the chemical, imported through middlemen from China and mislabeled as glycerin, into cold medicine, killing at least 100 people. 
 After an initial spate of attacks on the foreign coverage, many Chinese media outlets have belatedly come to accept that the country's toothpaste standards -- which hold that using the chemical in small amounts is not harmful -- need to be refined.
 In a commentary last week, one newspaper, The Xiaoxiang Morning Post, went further, rejecting the foreign conspiracy theories outright. 
 ''In the end, it is not trade barriers, or stirring people up, which I deeply believed at the outset,'' wrote Liu Hongbo. ''In recent years, whenever we have heard of the rejection of Chinese agricultural or seafood products, we have adopted the formula of invoking trade barriers. Please, let's drop the perspective of international struggle to explain our consumer safety issues.''
 Such commentary, however, has been rare. And that is remarkable, given that for years, Chinese consumers have been bombarded with reports about problems with domestic food safety and fraud: animals injected with illegal hormones to speed growth; eggs treated with poisonous dies; turbot, a popular fish, contaminated with unsafe antibiotics.
 ''I have no idea what we can and cannot eat nowadays,'' said Feng Jiangping, 40, as she shopped in a Shanghai street market. ''I have stopped eating many things based on media reports. Recently I have stopped eating turbot, river eel, eggs from free-range chickens.''
 ''I don't know how the government manages food-safety things,'' added Ms. Feng, a saleswoman for a chemical company. ''I only know there is less and less safe food for us to eat.'' 
 More than anything, the food-safety crisis has revealed major weaknesses in China's emerging civil society, which for all its booming, frontier capitalist ethos has never developed anything like a consumer movement or citizen advocacy groups.
 That leaves Chinese consumers at the mercy of what the Chinese government decides to make of any situation. Since earlier this year, when Chinese exports of tainted pet food ingredients touched off one of the biggest pet food recalls in American history, the Chinese government has announced that it would rewrite food safety regulations, introduce a national recall system and overhaul the nation's top drug watchdog. On Friday, it sentenced a former top drug safety official to death. 
 [China's food and drug watchdog announced that it had shut down five drug makers over the last year, including one that made a substance implicated in 11 deaths, The Associated Press reported Saturday, citing state news media. The agency, the State Food and Drug Administration, also stripped 128 drug makers of their Good Manufacturing Practice certificates, a symbol of favorable performance, the newspaper China Daily reported on its Web site.]
 But the government's sense of commitment seems, at the least, variable. ''After all, these problematic products in the news are infinitesimally few,'' said Qing Gang, a Foreign Ministry spokesman in a briefing on Tuesday. ''Do they represent all the goods China exports? Should we totally deny the quality and safety of Chinese products because of what very few people did and the existence of very few products?''
 The next day, a government survey was released showing that nearly 20 percent of consumer goods on sale in China were substandard. The news drew scant commentary here. 
 ''China's food and drug situation has worsened over the last 10 years,'' said Wang Hai, one of the country's few prominent consumer advocates. ''Before, it was only small and informal workshops that would churn out fake food and drugs, but nowadays many big companies have joined in. The main reason, I think, is that penalties are not stiff enough to stop wrongdoers from making bad products, but there are many other faults in our consumer safety system, as well.''
 He said those included the lack of accountability in the main watchdog agencies for food and drug quality. 
 The food-safety crisis also underscores persistent shortcomings in the Chinese news media, which, far from the gray, state-controlled monolith many foreigners imagine, sometimes manage to be feisty and surprisingly investigative. The best example came recently, when a Chinese television reporter, Fu Zhenzhong, uncovered longstanding practices akin to slave labor in the brick-making industry in Shanxi Province.
 What China's emerging media outlets are less willing to do is directly criticize the government for failures in basic responsibilities, like ensuring the safety of food, medicine and other widely used products. As hard questions are being raised by outsiders, the Chinese news media have fallen back on the old formula of defensive nationalist posturing.
 ''There is unbalanced trade between the United States and China, and China indeed has the largest trade surplus with the U.S.,'' intoned The Oriental Morning Post recently. ''But there are many ways to keep trade balanced, and we wouldn't want to see the American media realize this goal by discrediting China's food safety.''
 This common story line of an American-driven plot to discredit China and Chinese products has run into difficulty, however, as Japan, the European Union, certain Southeast Asian countries and even Hong Kong, a semiautonomous Chinese territory, have all announced tightened controls or stricter inspections of Chinese consumables.
 In contrast to coverage of American bans on Chinese toothpaste, dog food ingredients and fish, reports about the international concerns on food safety here have been sparse.
 Asked why, Gao Xianmin, a producer at ''Economy 30 Minutes,'' a major daily economic news program on CCTV replied: ''I don't have to tell you. You already know why.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: At a market in Shanghai, customers can buy fish, meats and other food. But even as China's exports face greater scrutiny overseas, some food sold domestically has been found to be substandard or tainted. (Photographs by Ryan Pyle for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PRODUCT SAFETY (89%); FOOD SAFETY (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); ANIMAL FOODS (89%); PET FOODS (89%); FOOD MISLABELING (78%); SEAFOOD (78%); POULTRY (78%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); CONSPIRACY (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); CHEMICALS (70%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS (70%); CHEMICALS MFG (70%); ANTIBIOTICS (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); ANIMALS (67%); ORAL CARE PRODUCTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) EAST CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



131 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: A Strong Quarter, a Shaky Foundation

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
DESPITE some gut-wrenching setbacks, the stock market charged ahead to a strong finish in the second quarter, overcoming significant challenges posed by climbing bond yields, escalating problems in the housing market and rising oil prices.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index set a record high in late May and closed up 5.8 percent for the quarter. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 8.5 percent, its best quarterly performance in more than three years. And if you were invested overseas, with the notable exception of Japan, you probably did even better.
 The strong flow of private equity acquisitions, a pickup in manufacturing activity and signs that inflation has moderated provided a much-needed boost to the stock market, which had ended the first quarter flat. In the second quarter, though, general domestic stock mutual funds gained 6.1 percent and international stock funds rose 8.3 percent, on average, according to Morningstar. Energy, information technology and industrial stocks led the market. 
 ''The market, I thought, did quite well, considering all the news,'' said John A. Carey, an executive vice president and portfolio manager at Pioneer Investments, the mutual fund company based in Boston. ''This was supposed to be the year that interest rates were to come down, and they didn't. This was supposed to be the year that oil came down and it didn't. The market is sloughing all of that off and looking ahead.''
 The price-to-earnings ratio of stocks in the S.& P. 500 index rose to roughly 18 at the end of June from 17 in March. That is down significantly from the late 1990s and 2000, but slightly above the average of 16 since 1935.
 Yet many portfolio managers and investors say they do not feel all that reassured that the current rally has the legs to withstand what may lie ahead. Just in the last week, several private equity firms have had difficulty financing deals at the easy terms to which they had been accustomed. The era of cheap and easy credit is not over by any means, but there are signs that the buyout frenzy may not continue at the current pace.
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note ended the second quarter at 5.03 percent, up from 4.65 percent in March. Investors are also demanding slightly higher premiums on high-yield debt and certain mortgage securities. 
 That could prove to be significant, given the influence takeovers have had on stock prices. According to calculations by Howard Silverblatt, the senior index analyst at Standard & Poor's, 19 companies in the S.& P. 500 accounting for about 1.7 percent of the index's market capitalization are being acquired. Most of them are being taken over by privately held entities.
 ''Right now, we are in pretty flush times,'' said Steven Bleiberg, who heads global asset allocation at Legg Mason, the money management company based in Baltimore. But he added, ''If the past is any guide, some of these takeovers are going to turn out not to be such great decisions.''
 The housing market's problems also appear to be worsening, as evidenced by the near collapse of two Bear Stearns hedge funds that invested in complex securities backed by subprime mortgages. Other financial firms have also experienced mortgage-related pain, and there is a growing glut of unsold homes in markets across the country. 
 And the hope once held by many investors that the Federal Reserve would cut short-term interest rates to help ease the housing market pain has dimmed significantly in the last couple of months.
 These concerns have weighed on parts of the market. Financial stocks in the S.& P. 500 rose just 1.5 percent for the quarter, on average, and consumer staples managed a 2.1 percent gain. (Utility companies posted the worst performance, falling 1.1 percent.)
 Funds specializing in the real-estate sector did far worse; they were down 7.7 percent for the quarter. Taxable bond funds were essentially flat, and municipal bond funds were down 0.6 percent.
 A related concern worrying some investors is the slowing pace of corporate earnings growth, which has fallen from double digits to the range of 6.5 to 7 percent. The next few weeks could prove crucial as companies preannounce results for the second quarter.
 ''The rate of growth in corporate earnings is slackening,'' said Scott Black, president of Delphi Management, an investment firm based in Boston. ''That doesn't augur well for runaway stocks for the rest of the year.''
 That shift has many portfolio managers seeking out companies with big exposure to foreign markets, particularly the fast-growing developing economies. The weaker American dollar -- which fell 1.4 percent against the euro and 1.5 percent against the Chinese yuan in the second quarter -- has helped to bolster exports 
 David M. Hollond, a portfolio manager at American Century Investments, is a proponent of investing in industrial, materials and infrastructure companies that are benefiting from the development of China, India, Brazil and Russia. It is not a new or unique idea, he acknowledges, but he says he believes that these countries are still in the early portion of a long upward cycle. The American Century Heritage fund, of which he is a co-manager, was up 15 percent for the quarter.
 ''We are not trying to make a bet against the U.S. economy,'' he said. ''We think there are plenty of opportunities here as well. We want to be exposed to where the acceleration is.''
 Mutual funds that invest directly overseas continued to outperform American markets. Funds specializing in Europe were up 7.2 percent for the quarter. Asia-Pacific funds excluding Japan were up an astounding 19 percent, and those investing in Latin America gained 21.2 percent. Funds with a Japan focus, by contrast, were essentially flat, eking out a gain of 0.4 percent.
 More broadly, mutual funds that have a growth-oriented strategy appeared to have finally gained an edge on those that invest in value plays. Midcap growth funds, for instance, were up 8.2 percent for the quarter, compared with 5.8 percent for midcap value funds.
 For much of the last year, value funds have outperformed growth. It is unclear whether the second quarter is a turning point or merely a blip. Technology stocks' strong performance during the second quarter accounted for a big part of the shift. Information technology stocks in the S.& P. 500 were up 10.2 percent for the quarter.
 The stock of Amazon.com, the Internet retailer, was up 72 percent in the second quarter, the best return of any stock in the S.& P. 500. The shares soared in April after the company announced a big jump in earnings and increased its forecast for the rest of the year.
 Robert Hagstrom, a senior vice president and a fund manager at Legg Mason, increased his stake in Amazon, which is his largest holding, last year. He said he believed that the company's investments in technology and infrastructure would pay off in better profit margins down the road. ''The only thing that has really changed is the operating margin has improved,'' he said.
 Mr. Hagstrom said he likes technology companies that are prepared to take advantage of business opportunities on the Internet and in wireless communications. Growth stocks, he said, should perform better than value ones now because the economy has slowed but does not appear to be sinking into a recession.
 ''If you believe that the Fed has avoided a recession and the economy hit its low point in the first quarter and will begin to grow better from here and pick up speed in '08,'' Mr. Hagstrom said, ''you could have a very good market for the next 12 to 24 months.''
 In essence, what he and many other mutual fund managers are looking for is the much hoped for, but rare, soft landing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



132 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Simplification: A Complex Job

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
FOR many borrowers, reading a mortgage agreement is a bit like trying to decipher hieroglyphics. 
 In fact, federal regulators and mortgage-industry officials say that truth-in-lending disclosure forms, mandated in the 1970s by the federal government, have fallen far short of their goal, in part because of the increased complexity of mortgages. 
 The industry is now working to simplify the forms, which run to dozens of pages and often include financial and legal terms that are far beyond the ken of typical borrowers. The only question, some mortgage officials say, is how much this approach will help. 
 ''The truth-in-lending document has always been notorious for confusing people,'' said Ellen Bitton, the chief executive of Park Avenue Mortgage, a brokerage in Manhattan. ''So, sure, our lives would be much easier if it were simplified. But there are so many things that need to be disclosed, it'll be difficult to change it in a way that satisfies everyone's concerns.''
 Lenders and brokers must give both truth-in-lending and good-faith-estimate forms, which are meant to give an overview of loan costs, to borrowers within three days of receiving a mortgage application. But according to a Federal Trade Commission survey released last month, these and other cost disclosure forms ''failed to convey key mortgage costs to many consumers.''
 In particular, the study said that many of them ''had loans that were significantly more costly than they believed or contained significant restrictions, such as prepayment penalties, of which they were unaware.''
 The study covered customers with prime credit ratings and those with subprime ratings. The recent disclosure that some subprime borrowers unknowingly took out high-cost loans led legislators and regulators to focus more intensely on mortgage-disclosure issues. Now that many of those subprime borrowers are having difficulty making their mortgage payments, the industry is increasing its efforts to improve disclosure practices.
 The F.T.C. study also included customers' reactions to simplified disclosure forms meant to help them understand the loan terms better. 
 The Mortgage Bankers Association, which represents many national lenders, said last month that it would issue its own template for simplified disclosure forms, and the National Association of Mortgage Brokers proposed a simplified good-faith-estimate form earlier this year to the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development. The form would focus on four points: the loan amount, the interest rate, the monthly payment (including taxes and insurance) and the amount needed at closing.
 Alex Pollock, a financial-industry analyst with the American Enterprise Institute, a Washington research group, has proposed a single-page disclosure form that has won some support in the industry. It consists of about 20 sentences stripped of industry lingo. 
 Analysts say that for prospective borrowers, the good news is that there will most likely be some form of simplified disclosure in the coming months. But Thomas Pinkowish, the president of Remoc Associates, a mortgage-industry consultancy in Essex, Conn., said that these efforts may not necessarily be enough to save borrowers from taking out bad loans.
 ''A simplified disclosure may not help, because it gives borrowers less information,'' Mr. Pinkowish said. ''And in today's market, with all these different loan programs, it's very hard for loan officers to understand how all these loans work, let alone develop the skill to explain them in clear terms to the consumers.''
 Mr. Pinkowish said that recent efforts among states to tighten the standards for licensing loan officers offer a greater potential to improve the situation.
 ''With that,'' he said, ''you've ascertained that at least at one point, the loan officer had knowledge about these products. Of course, it is much harder for regulators to monitor how well loan officers communicate this knowledge to the customer.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US TRUTH IN LENDING ACT (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); FAIR LENDING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LOAN BROKERS (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); EXECUTIVES (54%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2008



133 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL 3-10
 Aborted Raid on Al Qaeda
 A secret military operation in early 2005 to capture senior members of Al Qaeda in Pakistan was aborted at the last minute after top Bush administration officials decided it was too risky. 1 
Marshaling Russia's Youth
 Groups created by President Vladimir V. Putin's Kremlin are fighting for the hearts and minds of Russia's youth, the first generation to come of age in post-Soviet Russia. Some critics of the government charge that the groups go beyond ideological cultivation to full-on indoctrination. 1
 Leads in British Attacks
 Investigators have identified two ''principal protagonists'' in the botched terror attacks in London and Glasgow and were trying to establish how the other detained suspects fit in, a British security official said. 10 
 Suicide Bombers Strike Iraq
 Suicide bombers killed dozens of people in two attacks north of Baghdad, raising questions about whether insurgents who have fled intense military operations in Baghdad and Diyala are turning to more vulnerable targets nearby. 4
 Live Earth Around the World
 In eight major concerts collectively called Live Earth and attended by hundreds of thousands, local and international celebrities backed solo and group acts to raise awareness about global warming and to promote individual, corporate and government action to slow, even reverse, climate change. 10
 New Trade Rumblings in House
 Two months after the Bush administration and Democrats on Capitol Hill agreed to expedite several trade pacts, they are squabbling again and jeopardizing Congressional approval of the administration's already shrunken trade agenda. 4
 NATIONAL 11-16
 Libby Case: A Shift by Bush
 As governor of Texas, President Bush discussed and applied a consistent and narrow standard when he decided whether to issue pardons and commutations. But that standard appears to be at odds with his recent decision to commute the 30-month prison sentence of I. Lewis Libby Jr. 1 
 Senate Leader on Iraq
 Trying to capitalize on new Republican defections from the White House on the Iraq war, Senator Harry Reid and other Democrats intend to put their muscle behind a revised proposal to force a withdrawal of troops from Iraq. In the six months since he took control, Mr. Reid has experienced the highs and lows of leading his party. 1 
 Schemes Prey on Elderly
 Many financial advisers, working with insurance companies, are marketing themselves to older Americans using impressive-sounding credentials that can be earned in just a few days from for-profit companies, and sound similar to established credentials. And they are selling the elderly complicated investments that economists say most retirees should never own. 1 
 Religious Right Still Unsure
 The three most prominent Republican candidates for president, Rudolph W. Giuliani, Senator John McCain and Mitt Romney, are continuing to have difficulty winning over religious conservatives, which is a crucial constituency in the Republican base. 15 
 NEW YORK/REGION 19-21
 Legacy of Violence
 Many people still cannot agree on what to call the spasm of gunfire, looting and flames that ravaged Newark in 1967, leaving 23 people dead. To frightened white residents, it was a riot; for Black Power veterans, it was a rebellion. 19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); APPROVALS (72%); GOVERNORS (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%); PARDONS (63%); INSURANCE (60%); RELIGION (60%); SENTENCING (50%); JAIL SENTENCING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); HARRY REID (57%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (87%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



134 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE WEEK AHEAD: JULY 8-14; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: POP

BYLINE: By KELEFA SANNEH

 BODY:
POP
 Kelefa Sanneh
 About a year ago FAITH HILL and TIM MCGRAW came to Madison Square Garden to give fans a chance to spy on them. They sang of course, making their way through nearly three dozen sturdy country hits and could-be hits. An arena full of fans matched Mr. McGraw word for word as he belted out ''Live Like You Were Dying'' and other favorites; his best songs find a hugely effective balance between old-fashioned stoicism and new-fangled sentiment. (''Live Like You Were Dying'' is a tearjerker about fathers and sons, but the chorus lists manly feats like sky diving and bull riding.) Ms. Hill, who has dabbled in mainstream pop, has a catalog of irresistible hits, ranging from ''Breathe,'' a crossover ballad, to ''Mississippi Girl,'' a down-home rallying cry. 
 Even so, singing wasn't really the highlight. Mr. McGraw and Ms. Hill also happen to be husband and wife, and their hugely entertaining show was structured like one long seduction. They sang together, they parted, they reunited; at the end of the night they finally kissed, to thunderous applause. Since last summer Mr. McGraw has scored yet another No. 1 country hit with the giddy singalong, ''Last Dollar (Fly Away),'' and right now their duet ''I Need You'' is in rotation on country radio. They perform in New Jersey on Monday night, and amid the current music-industry recession they seem like a blast from the past: two big pop stars, still making hits, still drawing crowds. 
 The opening act is TAYLOR SWIFT, a rising country star who is now touring with the guy she once sang about. Her breakthrough hit was called ''Tim McGraw,'' and in it a young woman asks her ex to remember the times and songs they shared: ''When you think Tim McGraw, I hope you think of me.'' Apparently wishful thinking really works. 7:30 p.m., Continental Airlines Arena, East Rutherford, N.J., (201) 935-3900, meadowlands.com; $30 to $97.75.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Faith Hill and Tim McGraw bring their hit-packed show to the Continental Airlines Arena on Monday. (Photograph by Timothy A. Clary/Agence France Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTRY MUSIC (89%); MUSIC (89%); POP & ROCK (79%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (67%)

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (52%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

PERSON: TIM MCGRAW (90%); TAYLOR SWIFT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



135 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1732 words

HEADLINE: On These Waves, Everyone's a Local

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH HAYT

 BODY:
SOUTHAMPTON, N.Y. 
 ON a sparkling Monday in June, the first session of the Flying Point Summer School surf camp was about to begin, and the beachfront parking lot was filled with cars: scrappy vans and pickup trucks belonging to the camp's instructors, side by side with luxury sedans and a Maserati left by the mothers and nannies dropping the campers off. 
 Out on the waves, the students, their hair slick with saltwater, were wearing new wet suits and lying across surfboards provided by the school. Ranging in age from 7 to 17, the students spend their summers in the Hamptons, in estates behind 12-foot privet hedges on pastoral lanes. 
 As they paddled, the students were being pushed by the instructors, beach bums who had grown up nearby, the sons and daughters of carpenters and shop owners who cater to the summer trade. 
 At noon the lessons ended, but the mingling of students and instructors continued. At the Flying Point Surf & Sport shop on Main Street, the surfers and their proteges hung out, eating ice cream from the Fudge Company next door. Some nights they all go to dinner at restaurants like Savanna's, washing down fried zucchini appetizers with San Pellegrino. On rainy days, there are parties or bowling.
 For generations, Southampton's year-round residents and its summer visitors have been distinct populations. Summer people played tennis in all-whites on grass courts at the Meadow Club, while locals mowed the lawns or built roofs on the mansions of Gin Lane. Year-rounders used the white pages to look up a number. Summer people had the Hamptons Blue Book, an exclusive private directory listing homes with names (Westerly and Hydrangea House). There was little if any social overlap.
 But today, in the Atlantic Ocean surf, bankers, brokers, lawyers and their children, dressed in Abercrombie & Fitch board shorts or Quiksilver wet suits, are eager to improve in an age-old local sport. Surfing, it turns out, is blurring class divisions in ways that a Marxist could never have imagined. 
 ''It's a very new thing,'' said Jolie Ruben, 20, who grew up in Southampton, the daughter of schoolteachers. She is one of the surf shop's managers and a student at Hunter College. 
 ''For our parents, it was them working for the 'city-ots' -- that's what they called the summer people and rich people,'' she said. That generation, she said, still keeps to itself, socializing with one another in the pubs and at home. 
 ''But the surfers here work -- and play -- with them,'' she said, meaning the summer crowd. ''The surfers make friends with the families and go to restaurants and barbecues. You don't see the social barriers as much.''
 The Americans who were riding the waves once were mostly made up of social outlaws or dropouts. Today, surfing is not merely a popular sport but a lifestyle, with $7.8 billion worth of boards and related paraphernalia, apparel, watches and sunglasses sold in the United States in 2006 -- up from $6.52 billion in 2004, according to a trade group.
 At Southampton, the waves are usually mere ankle-busters compared with the barrels out West, and they are less tricky than the reef breaks of Montauk. 
 But in the five years since Shane Dyckman, 34, opened the surf school, he has seen the number of surfers grow, with enrollment doubling each year, to about 30 campers and 20 private students.
 Mark Zucchero, 36, who opened the Flying Point shop in Southampton in 1996, has noticed that business has picked up in the last three years, and so has the celebrity traffic, with Matt Lauer, William H. Macy, Felicity Huffman and Kim Cattrall, as well as stockbrokers and hedge fund managers, stopping by for $250 Prada sunglasses and T-shirts with the name of the shop. 
 Henry Hildreth, 51, chief executive of Hildreth's department store, who has been surfing in Southampton all his life, said it has become crowded in the water -- ''frustratingly crowded'' -- and it's getting worse.
 ''The gentleman sports of playing tennis and croquet at the Meadow Club and golf at the National Golf Links of America, followed by an afternoon of drinking iced tea, have been replaced by surfing and standing on the sand, talking smack,'' he said.
 Bobbing in the swells, the locals are identifiable by their noses, triangles of zinc oxide smeared across sun-burnished skin. But after camp is over (four days of three-hour lessons at $475) or afternoon private lessons end ($100 an hour), they might be found at the Southampton Bathing Corporation, an exclusive club, as guests of a camper's family.
 ''Half the kids live in mansions on the beach on Gin Lane and their families have invited us all, the surf instructors, for lunch at the Bathing Corp and the same thing for the Bath and Tennis Club,'' said Mr. Dyckman, who grew up in Hampton Bays. 
 ''We'll do house calls, pulling up in our pickup trucks with surfboards in the back to $20 million estates, and half the time we'll sit and have lunch before taking the kids, the mother and the father out surfing,'' he said. ''It's amazing how the instructors have bridged the gap between the rich and famous through surfing.''
 The worlds converge at the Flying Point shop, particularly at night. The 1,200-square-foot store is crammed with surfboards, skateboards, Croc sandals, pool toys, dive watches, Tommy Bahama camp shirts and O'Neill floral sundresses. When the store is open, so is the front door and Nu-metal music, like Linkin Park and the White Stripes, is on. 
 The scene continues even past the store's official 10 p.m. closing time. Surfers and summer visitors wade in and out. Late one night, Todd McElrath, 15, a salesman and Southampton High School student, was wearing a black T-shirt printed with glow-in-the dark green skulls and patchwork Billabong board shorts. He had just finished straightening up and was skateboarding through the aisles.
 ''It's not like working at the Fudge Company or the Bathing Corp., where you really feel like you're serving the summer people,'' Ms. Ruben said. ''Here, you don't feel you're below the customer.''
 The visitors are ''more intimidated by us,'' said Michael Ahearn, 22, a student at Pratt Institute, who grew up in Southampton, the son of a former Suffolk County assistant district attorney. Or maybe people are drawn to them ''for knowledge about the ocean.'' 
 It's more than that, Ms. Ruben said. ''The summer people see us hanging out and we create a vibe they want to be a part of,'' she said.
 The so-called Flying Point Crew is made up of about 10 surfers, most of whom are male, in their mid-teens to late 20s. Their style -- which includes shaggy hair or crew cuts, and often a tattooed torso -- is seemingly unstudied: Billabong board shorts, Reef sandals, Emerica sneakers and Oakley or Ray-Ban sunglasses. 
 They speak surf slang: an impressive ride is ''ill,'' a gigantic wave ''epic.'' And they give each other quirky, insider-y nicknames: Luke O'Connor, 16, is known as Fetus because he is young, fair skinned with white blond hair and was small for his age; John Margaritis, 21, a surfing instructor, is called Sunshine because of his radiant, pasha-like personality; and brothers, Jason, 17, and Brian Pollak, 14, upcoming competitive surfers, go by J-Po and Bri-Po. 
 The carriage-trade kids idolize them.
 ''The townies rock,'' said Olivia Jansing, 10, of Old Westbury. She goes to a private school during the year and spends the summer here. ''I don't like the city people because they think they can do whatever they want and think they're the best, which aren't the townies.''
 Her father, John Jansing, the president of Proxytrust, a data processing service for banks and trusts, is all for the camaraderie. ''I can appreciate the class difference thing,'' he said. ''It exposes Olivia to different types of people.''
 Some of the surfers' parents also appreciate the new socialization. ''He's met all sorts of different people,'' said Carol O'Connor, a clerk at Rogers Memorial Library in Southampton and the mother of Luke O'Connor, a k a Fetus, ''which is what he'll have to deal with in the real world when he goes to college.''
 On a soggy day last month, Mr. Margaritis, who designs T-shirts, rounded up a group to go bowling. Among them was Alex Seaman, 15, of the Seaman's Furniture family; her father owns Rooms to Go and her mother is an Emory University law professor. When the weather cleared, everyone played tennis at Miss Seaman's summer home.
 ''The surfers are more down-to-earth,'' said Miss Seaman, who lives in Atlanta the rest of the year. ''They're fun. I come to socialize at the camp and at the store. It's like a big family.'' 
 The bonhomie is in the surfers' financial interest, though capitalizing on the friendships can be awkward. 
 ''Everyone fights for the jobs we have,'' said Alex Baranovich, 22, a surf-shop manager and instructor who grew up between New York and Southampton and attends City College. ''It's such good money. You're at the beach. You're teaching people how to surf. Sometimes you don't want to even take the money if it's someone who's really tried hard to stand up and they make it.''
 ''But you have to take the money because you'll know you'll regret it come February,'' he said. ''The money sets people up for the year.'' 
 The Flying Point surfers are kept in line at the shop by its owner, Mr. Zucchero, who is also known as Zuke. ''I'm the father figure among them,'' he said. The surfers, in turn, keep Mr. Zucchero abreast of the trends; he now has three surf shops in the area. ''These guys know what the younger kids want,'' he said.
 One reason the surfers and the summer kids are better able to connect has to do with the economic shift in Southampton. With real estate prices so high, even the townies tend to be people of some means. Their children are more likely to go to college and to see themselves pursuing careers beyond the village.
 ''Things have changed,'' said Hugo Johner, one of the owners of the Fudge Shop. ''The surfers are the children of the wealthier locals. They'll pull in in a Mercedes with a surfboard on top.''
 Yet, for all their elbow rubbing, the surfers see themselves as worlds apart from the summer set, with their pastel polo shirts and sweaters tied around their necks.
 ''This is the real Hamptons,'' Ms. Ruben said. ''Our everyday is the beach. It's a slogan around here: 'Your vacation is our life.' ''

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE CREW Surfing students and instructors gather outside their base camp, the Flying Point Surf & Sport shop. Class is in, below. (Photographs by Mark Paris for The New York Times)(pg. ST1)
WHERE THE ACTION IS Townies and summer visitors, who meet at surf camp to challenge the waves, also form a tight social group at night in Southampton. (Photograph by Mark Paris for The New York Times)(pg. ST6)
 THE ZUKE Mark Zucchero owns the Flying Point Surf & Sport shop. (Photograph by Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)(pg. ST7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURFING (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); WATER SPORTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); SEDANS (77%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); LAWYERS (72%); DRINKING PLACES (64%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (64%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (64%); AFT (FRA) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (64%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (74%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (78%); FRANCE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



136 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: Battling to Keep the Country In the Texas Hill Country

BYLINE: By KRISTINA SHEVORY

 BODY:
BEE CAVE, Tex.
 NEARLY two decades ago, Gene and Linda Lowenthal, who were living in Austin, decided that they would eventually want to move to the wide-open countryside. They bought 58 acres in this small town in the Texas Hill Country, about 45 minutes west of Austin, built a small house and moved here in the mid-'90s, finally free of noise and sprawl.
 That freedom lasted about nine years. Then, bulldozers started appearing on hillsides once covered with live oak and mesquite trees. Houses and traffic lights popped up on once-forlorn roads leading to their home. Plans for a water line were drawn. 
 The Lowenthals had to choose: stay, or travel farther out into the Hill Country. ''We just wanted a small house where we could enjoy the land and be left alone,'' Mrs. Lowenthal said. ''People could look at us and say, 'Your land is worth 10 times more than what you paid.' But what we wanted is going to be gone.'' 
 The couple, who are in their 60s -- she is a hospice nurse, he an investment banker -- decided that they did not want to move again. They liked their land and their house, if not the encroaching edges of suburbia. So they decided to stay -- and to try to see that new subdivisions are built in the way they think is right. They teamed up with neighbors and are battling to keep open land and preserve water quality. 
 The Hill Country, an area that extends about 150 miles west of Austin, is quickly becoming suburban. With its rolling hills, lakes and rivers, it is attracting Texans eager to escape city life, and out-of-state buyers who can buy more acreage for less, real estate agents say, than they might pay in other states.
 ''People want to live out in the country,'' said Charles Gilliland, a research economist at the Real Estate Center at Texas A&M University in College Station. 
 Water, once so difficult to find, is, at least for now, not a problem because of new water lines. Thousands of new homes are planned, and last year the Real Estate Center reported that land prices had reached as high as $25,000 an acre. In certain areas, the prices have ballooned even further. 
 Ranchers and farmers, enticed by multimillion-dollar payouts, retirement or the lack of heirs, are selling thousands of acres of their large properties to developers eager to put up homes and strip malls. Other landowners, threatened with rising property taxes, see no option but to sell some of the land they have held in their families for many decades.
 The beauty of the Hill Country may also be its undoing. The crush of new people is likely to put more cars on county roads, pollute creeks and streams and eventually drain underground water supplies, according to the Save Our Springs Alliance in Austin.
 In an environmentally sensitive area like the Hill Country, which sends water downstream to Austin, the stakes are particularly high. And the concerns have led to efforts -- like those of the Lowenthals' group -- to curb development.
 Locals have had some success, most notably with West Cypress Hills, a subdivision planned on 1,000 acres near Bee Cave. Three years ago, nearby residents sued the developer, accusing it of sending runoff into a nearby creek. In December, the developer agreed to clean up the creek, follow strict environmental rules and reduce the number of homes built. The fight prompted the county to put together stronger development rules.
 Many Hill Country developers say they are trying to do what they can to preserve the region's rural feel, by setting aside land as open space and putting homes on large lots.
 The singer Willie Nelson, who is carving off 65 acres of his 688-acre ranch for upscale homes on large lots overlooking the Pedernales River in Spicewood, Tex., says he plans to leave most of his land untouched. 
 In the first phase of Mr. Nelson's project, Tierra Vista, 41 lots will range in size from one to two acres and cost an average of $175,000. Work on roads and utilities is expected to start this month. 
 At Belvedere, an upscale subdivision in Bee Cave, more than a quarter of the 443 acres will be used for a nature preserve. Homes will sit on one- to three-acre lots and range in price from $850,000 to $1.5 million. About 30 houses are under construction. The few that have been completed have sold quickly, said its developer, Joel Robuck, because buyers want a ''little more land, vistas and trees nearby.'' 
 A population explosion in Austin and in nearby San Antonio is also helping to rework the face of the Hill Country. In the 1990s, Austin's population jumped 33 percent, to more than 656,500, while San Antonio's grew by 15 percent, to 1.1 million, according to the 2000 census. In the last seven years, Austin's population has grown by an additional 12 percent and San Antonio's by 15 percent. 
 In addition, the Hill Country has experienced ''a huge infusion over the last few years of people who come and see it as a low-cost alternative to Arizona, Florida or Nevada,'' said Eldon Rude, Austin market director at Metrostudy, a residential home consultancy. ''They can build a big house on a lot of acreage for less than where they came from.'' 
 When Randall Rudy turned 50, he and his wife, Karen, left Los Angeles so they could raise their children in Texas. Mr. Rudy, an actor and a native of Houston, wanted his children to grow up in a ''warm and fuzzy area'' with plenty of Southern hospitality. Not quite a year ago, they moved to Bee Cave and are building a 5,500-square-foot house with a pool, a Jacuzzi and a five-car garage in the Belvedere development. They expect to move in at the end of July.
 ''There is still a lot of wide-open space and good views in every direction,'' Mr. Rudy said. ''You get a lot more space, and it's more human than L.A.''
 Although growth had nibbled at the edge of the Hill Country for years, it never got far because there was never enough water. What little water there was could be found in creeks and underground aquifers, making people dependent on the weather and wells. 
 ''Water is as important as land,'' said James Kerby, owner of Kerby Development in Austin, who is planning a 500-acre development next to the Lowenthals' home. 
 But in the last five years, the Lower Colorado River Authority, which controls regional water supplies, has made it possible to put up thousands of new homes. The utility, at the behest of developers and some residents, has been laying new pipelines across the Hill Country that carry lake water to outlying areas. But in the process, it has run into protests.
 ''The L.C.R.A.'s willingness to bankroll developers is destroying the Hill Country,'' said Bill Bunch, executive director of the Save Our Springs Alliance.
 The utility, meanwhile, contends it has to sell water to anyone who wants it. There is plenty of water in nearby lakes, it says, and the utility can ease the strain on the aquifer by installing pipelines. ''If we have the water, then legally we have to provide the water,'' said Joseph J. Beal, the authority's general manager.
 With no regional plan and little regulatory power, most counties have had little say in corralling development. Some cities have started reworking their development codes only in the last few years, while others have imposed building moratoriums on developers to buy time. Since 1998, Austin voters have approved $128 million in bonds to pay for land and easements to stave off development. 
 The Capital Area Metropolitan Planning Organization, a regional planning group, is putting together a proposal to coordinate road and land use. A draft is up for approval by the end of this year, and the group will go to counties and cities to try to persuade them to implement it.
 The effort comes at an important time. Regional authorities estimate that by 2030 the population of the greater Austin area will have doubled, to three million. 
 Local residents are also trying to help. The Lowenthals and Mr. Kerby said an agreement was close that would reduce the number of homes he wants to build from the 464 he is planning, though they would not discuss details. 
 ''To us,'' Mr. Lowenthal said, ''the land is everything. And we feel a sacred trust to protect it.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: GOOD VIEWS: Clockwise from right, West Cypress Hills is being built on 1,000 acres. A lot at Tierra Vista, carved out of Willie Nelson's ranch, overlooks the Pedernales River. Linda and Gene Lowenthal's front porch currently has a wide-open view. Randall Rudy is building a home with native stone at Belvedere. (Photographs by Mark Graham for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); SUBURBS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (69%); LAKES (64%); RETAILERS (60%); CITIES (57%); HOSPICE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (91%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



137 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Genetic Engineers Who Don't Just Tinker

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WADE

 BODY:
FORGET genetic engineering. The new idea is synthetic biology, an effort by engineers to rewire the genetic circuitry of living organisms. 
 The ambitious undertaking includes genetic engineering, the now routine insertion of one or two genes into a bacterium or crop plant. But synthetic biologists aim to rearrange genes on a much wider scale, that of a genome, or an organism's entire genetic code. Their plans include microbes modified to generate cheap petroleum out of plant waste, and, further down the line, designing whole organisms from scratch. 
 Synthetic biologists can identify a network of useful genes on their computer screens by downloading the gene sequences filed in DNA data banks. But a DNA molecule containing these various genes and their control elements would be a chain of hundreds of thousands of DNA units in length. Though human cells effortlessly duplicate a genome of three billion units, the longest piece of DNA synthesized so far is just 35,000 units long. 
 Scientists at the J. Craig Venter Institute in Rockville, Md., hope to take a giant stride in synthetic biology by creating a piece of DNA 580,076 units in length from simple chemicals, chiefly the material that constitutes DNA's four-letter chemical alphabet. This molecule would be an exact copy of the genome of a small bacterium. Dr. Venter says he then plans to insert it into a bacterial cell. If this man-made genome can take over the cell's functions, Dr. Venter should be able to claim he has made the first synthetic cell.
 Such an achievement could suggest some new plateau has been reached in human control of life and evolution. But Dr. Venter's synthetic genome will probably be seen to represent a feat of copying evolution's genetic programming, not of creating new life itself. 
 Synthetic biologists, as they survey all the new genes and control elements whose DNA sequences are now accumulating in data bases, seem to feel extraordinary power is almost within their grasp.
 ''Biology will never be the same,'' Thomas F. Knight of M.I.T.'s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory wrote recently in describing the new engineering discipline he sees as emerging from it.
 Adherents of the new discipline held their third annual conference last month in Zurich but their creations are still at the toy rocket stage. A dish of bacteria that generates a bull's eye pattern in response to the chemicals in its environment. A network of genes that synthesizes the precursor chemical to artemisin, an anti-malaria drug. ''The understanding of networks and pathways is really in its infancy and will be a challenge for decades,'' says James J. Collins, a biomedical engineer at Boston University.
 That hasn't stopped synthetic biologists from dreaming. ''Grow a house'' is on the to-do list of the M.I.T. Synthetic Biology Working Group, presumably meaning that an acorn might be reprogrammed to generate walls, oak floors and a roof instead of the usual trunk and branches. ''Take over Mars. And then Venus. And then Earth'' --the last items on this modest agenda.
 Most people in synthetic biology are engineers who have invaded genetics. They have brought with them a vocabulary derived from circuit design and software development that they seek to impose on the softer substance of biology. They talk of modules -- meaning networks of genes assembled to perform some standard function -- and of ''booting up'' a cell with new DNA-based instructions, much the way someone gets a computer going.
 The first practical applications of synthetic biology may not be so far off. ''The real killer app for this field has become bioenergy,'' Dr. Collins says. Under the stimulus of high gas prices, synthetic biologists are re-engineering microbes to generate the components of natural gas and petroleum. Whether this can be done economically remains to be seen. But one company, LS9 of San Carlos, Calif., says it is close to that goal. Its re-engineered microbe ''produces hydrocarbons that look, smell and function'' very similarly to those in petroleum, said Stephen del Cardayre, the company's vice president for research.
 Synthetic biologists are well aware that, like any new technology, theirs can be used for good or ill, and they have encouraged open discussion of possible risks at their annual meetings. 
 One possible danger is bioterrorism. According to a report in Science, Blue Heron Biotechnology, a DNA synthesis company, has already received requests, which it rejected, for DNA sequences encoding a plant toxin and part of the smallpox virus. Synthetic biologists hope that self-regulation will head off government supervision that could be expected to come in a field that has such potential for mischief.
 Evolution continually refines its creations by means of the naturally occurring mutations in DNA that are the raw material of natural selection. This propensity to innovate may not be so welcome to synthetic biologists, who seek stable systems. But they hope to spot mutations with error-detection algorithms and then go back to the original cells. ''You can think of it as a re-boot,'' said Ron Weiss, a synthetic biologist at Princeton. 
 Even if the mutation problem can be squelched, it remains to be seen how far synthetic biologists can wrest evolution's strange system to entirely different purposes and whether the human organism is one they will propose to debug and upgrade. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (Drawing by Leif Parsons) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETIC ENGINEERING (93%); DNA (91%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (91%); BIOLOGY (91%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (91%); BACTERIA (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BIOMEDICINE (73%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); MALARIA (50%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (50%) MARYLAND, USA (70%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



138 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: Haves and Have-Nots Of Globalization

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN

 BODY:
WHILE individual Americans debate the merits of globalization, corporate America has already moved overseas, with dramatic financial results. 
 United Technologies is a case in point. Fully 60 percent of its total sales are either made in the U.S.A. and exported, or made and sold offshore. It exports Pratt & Whitney engines and Sikorsky helicopters, mostly from Connecticut. And its Otis elevator and Carrier air-conditioning subsidiaries have carved out leading positions in emerging markets like China, where the two divisions assemble most of their products. 
 Aided by declines in the dollar, those foreign sales are bolstering the parent company's bottom line, which grew 18 percent last year. The price of its stock, one of the 30 in the Dow Jones industrials, reached a record high on Friday of $72.88. ''There's a lot of tension and drum-banging over job losses,'' says James E. Geisler, vice president for finance at United Technologies, which is based in Hartford but has become a global company. In 2006, only 72,500 of the company's 215,000 employees were in the United States. The remainder are based abroad. 
 ''The fact is, companies that are growing are better employers and some of those employees are in the United States,'' Mr. Geisler said. 
 The United Technologies story is part of a broad structural shift in how and where many American companies are making their money. The trend has been in the making for decades, and by now it clearly carries major economic implications, as well as significant investment opportunities. The trend accentuates the divide between workers who benefit from globalization and those who don't, sometimes within the same company. Financial analysts at United Technologies in Hartford overseeing Carrier's sales in India and Pratt engineers designing jet engines in Connecticut for export to Europe certainly benefit; but people who worked in Syracuse in the company's air-conditioning plant, now defunct, do not. 
 Another divide that seems to be widening is between those Americans whose investments capture international growth opportunities and those whose portfolios don't. In short, the economic divisions created by globalization are becoming ever sharper.
 On the financial side, increasing globalization of American corporate profits may mean, for example, that United States stock markets can retain their lofty elevations even if domestic growth continues to prove tepid -- because leading companies are earning so much abroad. Companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index that break out their international earnings reported at the end of 2006 that they racked up 45.2 percent of their sales through offshore sales and exports. That is up from 32.2 percent in 2001. 
 ''The long-term trend is for more international,'' says Alec Young, chief international equity strategist at S.& P. Many top multinationals have crossed the 50 percent threshold, as General Electric says it will do this year.
 Part of the explanation for the rising percentages is that the world is where the growth is. ''In Japan, we're seeing some of the strongest economic growth since World War II,'' Mr. Young said. ''And we're seeing upside growth surprises in Europe.'' Emerging markets from India to Brazil also are enjoying big economic gains. ''Real consumerism is breaking out'' in those markets, Mr. Young said.
 The charge offshore seems certain to continue because chief executives want to invest where they expect growth to occur. The 10 companies with the largest foreign sales in 2006 were some of the biggest names in American business: Exxon Mobil, Ford Motor, General Motors, General Electric, Hewlett-Packard, the Altria Group, ConocoPhillips, I.B.M., the American International Group and Procter & Gamble, according to S.& P. Those figures include only the sales of their offshore subsidiaries, not goods or services exported from the United States. ''Corporate profit growth is going to do better than it would have done if these companies had ignored the opportunities elsewhere,'' says Nigel Gault, an economist at Global Insight, an economic consulting group in Lexington, Mass. 
 Of course, that may be of scant solace to Americans who have been displaced in the work force. ''You might say it's a bad idea for companies to invest overseas and that they should be creating jobs in the United States, but look at the unemployment rate -- it's 4.5 percent,'' said Mr. Gault, whose firm is an outgrowth of the former DRI-McGraw Hill. ''Companies are having trouble finding skilled people. It's plausible to argue that the companies are making logical decisions for their own bottom line, but they're also logical if you look at the macroeconomic picture.''
 Even if the impact on the American worker is mixed, increasing international sales offer clear benefits to investors, including working people saving for retirement, said Jeff Tyler, senior vice president of American Century Investments in Mountain View, Calif. Investors who buy individual stocks may choose to concentrate on those of companies like I.B.M. or G.E. that are making big international pushes. G.E.'s stock has been flat for years, but has recently moved higher, nearing the $40 mark, partly because of investor enthusiasm for the company's move into markets like India. Another major company that has crossed the 50 percent threshold in international sales is PepsiCo, which reported a 16 percent increase in first-quarter profit based largely on its sales outside the United States.
 S.& P. says American companies in the energy, technology and consumer goods sectors, including pharmaceuticals, tend to have a big proportion of their sales overseas. Sectors that aren't as internationalized, and therefore may not be as good as long-term plays, include retailing, real estate and construction.
 Seen in the light of growing international sales and a weakening dollar, the auto sector becomes an interesting play. The stock prices of G.M. and Ford have been depressed because of long-suffering North American operations, but the companies' earnings are increasingly international. Among the Dow industrials, the stock of G.M. was the second-best performer of the second quarter, after Intel's. 
 Even a longtime sleeper like Honeywell International has been hitting new highs -- partly because 50 percent of its sales are outside the United States. Its share price gained 22.2 percent in the second quarter. Rob McCarthy, an analyst at Banc of America Securities in New York, maintains a buy rating on Honeywell in part because of what he calls its ''international leverage.'' He also likes United Technologies, G.E. and Emerson Electric, all of which are positioned to capture growth outside the United States. 
 ''Investors are reasonably skeptical about how long a United States economic expansion can last,'' Mr. McCarthy said, ''and are tantalized by the opportunity in the emerging economies and by the fact that we have a resurgent European economy.'' 
 AMONG his firm's funds, he says one that is particularly well suited to capturing the international growth of United States companies is American Century Global Growth. About 45 percent of its assets are invested in domestic companies, most with strong international presences, and the rest in foreign companies. He expects current trend lines of higher international economic growth and a declining dollar to continue for several years. ''It's a 5- to 10-year kind of workout,'' he says.
 That's certainly the way Mr. Geisler of United Technologies sees the world. Regarding the fact that 60 percent of its sales are overseas, he said: ''You're only going to see that number move up. Our biggest growth markets are in non-dollar-dominated markets such as China, India, Southeast Asia and the Middle East.''
 It's ''demonstrated history,'' he said, that other currencies in the world are going to strengthen against the dollar as they have in the past. Not that long ago, he notes, it took 360 Japanese yen to buy a dollar; today it's only about 120. ''As markets become more mature and attract more capital,'' he said, ''their currencies strengthen.'' 
 If he's right, United Technologies' offshore earnings, in dollar terms, will keep climbing at double-digit rates. And individual Americans will keep facing increasingly divergent economic outcomes as a vast majority of multinationals follow suit. 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The Economic View column last Sunday, about financial effects of globalization, incorrectly attributed a paraphrased comment and a quotation about current trends of stronger international economic growth and a declining dollar. It was Jeff Tyler, senior vice president of American Century Investments -- not Rob McCarthy, an analyst at Banc of America Securities -- who said he expected the trends to continue several more years and that ''It's a 5- to 10-year kind of workout.'' It was also Mr. Tyler who said that among his firm's mutual funds, the Global Growth fund is one that is particularly well suited to capturing international growth of United States companies

GRAPHIC: Photo: The GE90-115B, the powerful jet engine made by General Electric, drew attention in June at the Paris air show. Foreign sales are crucial to the company's bottom line. (Photograph by Francois Mori/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); TRENDS (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); HVAC & REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%); HELICOPTERS (57%)

COMPANY: UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (92%); PRATT & WHITNEY (58%)

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



139 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Minimum Wage And the Working Poor

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''A Raise Won't End Poverty'' (Op-Ed, July 1), Jill Jenkins argues that the average household with a minimum wage worker earns $53,370. But averages are skewed by a few very high earning families at the top -- the average salary of nine families making $10,000 and one making $410,000 is $50,000. 
 Jared Bernstein, former deputy chief economist for the Department of Labor, testified before Congress that only 3 percent of the benefit of a $1 minimum wage increase goes to the top 10 percent of earners, while 29 percent goes to families in the lowest 10 percent of earners (average income $11,700) and 53 percent to the lowest 30 percent. 
 Furthermore, recent growth in the number of small businesses, employment and payroll are all greater in high minimum wage states than low minimum wage states.
 Finally, Ms. Jenkins claims that the average salary of waiters and waitresses in New York ($30,513) is double the federal poverty level. But to afford even an inexpensive apartment on Long Island, one needs to make at least $35,000.
 Raising the minimum wage helps the working poor and does not hurt the economy. It is the right thing to do. 
 Tony Del Genio 
 West Babylon

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); FAMILY (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



140 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; The Way We Live Now: Idea Lab; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: More Heat Than Light

BYLINE: By Gary Rosen. 
Gary Rosen is the managing editor of Commentary.

 BODY:
If you happened to be in suburban New Jersey this past Jan. 6, you may recall that it was hot -- 72 degrees, to be exact, a record-breaking high. I remember that winter Saturday because, amazingly, I got to spend it in shorts and a T-shirt, playing a sweaty game of Wiffle ball with my sons in our backyard. A more recent Saturday, June 23, was also unusual, but for its unseasonable coolness, not its heat. The temperature that night dropped into the mid-50s, leaving us to shiver under our cotton blankets.
But the big difference between these two weather events wasn't the direction the thermometer jumped. It was how people reacted to them. In my corner of blue-state America, that balmy day in January elicited lots of muttering about evil Republicans and their indifference to greenhouse gases. In June, by contrast, I didn't hear a word about the evidentiary significance of our cold spell. Didn't goose bumps in summer mean that Al Gore is wrong? Well, no; but why the different standard for unexpected heat in January? 
 I have to confess to a serious case of global-warming fatigue. I know that the planet is heating up and that fossil fuels are the likely culprit. But I'm tired of the sanctimony and the alarmism that surround the subject. Every temperature spike is not a portent of the apocalypse, and the need to see it that way keeps us from dealing rationally with the problem itself. The issue is climate change, after all, not weather change. What scientists worry about isn't the occasional winter scorcher but the long-term shift in average temperatures.
 Actual global warming over the past century amounts to just over 1 degree Fahrenheit. The United Nations-sponsored Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change predicts that the continued buildup of atmospheric CO2 could make the Earth 3.5 to 8 degrees warmer by 2100, with potentially severe consequences for agriculture, water supplies and sea levels. The trouble is, there is virtually no chance that we'll reverse that trajectory. Even the most ambitious proposals for carbon taxes and ''cap and trade'' emission limits would only slow the rate of increase. And they won't alter the basic fact that, for the foreseeable future, modern economies will still depend overwhelmingly on fossil fuels. 
 Such realities may sound like defeatism, or apologetics for Big Oil, but should they fill us with despair? It all depends on how you frame the issue. If your starting point is what environmentalists call the ''precautionary principle'' -- the idea that we must act to avert ecological disaster even when we lack scientific certainty about the extent of the threat -- then our prospects are dim. A radical shift to clean energy, with the aim of ending greenhouse gas emissions, isn't on any government's agenda.
 And that may help to explain our peculiar anxieties about the problem. Though we often speak of global warming in terms of crisis, when it comes to policy choices we tend to hedge, as if not quite believing our own rhetoric. One reason for this cognitive dissonance is that distant threats are easy to discount. More fundamentally, I suspect, we are simply not ready to sacrifice the many benefits we derive from our profligate energy habits. As Cass R. Sunstein of the University of Chicago argues in his book ''Laws of Fear,'' a critique of the precautionary principle, a single-minded focus on particular environmental dangers excludes too much. ''A better approach,'' he writes, ''would acknowledge that a wide variety of adverse effects may come from inaction, regulation and everything between.''
 If ''precaution'' is to make sense, it must be tempered by the logic of cost-benefit analysis, with its trade-offs and estimates of relative risk. Taxing carbon consumption is a fine idea -- it would create incentives for new energy technologies -- but if pushed too far it could depress economic growth. Resources might be better invested in adaptation -- that is, in developing new crops and water supplies for a hotter world. Nor can we let climate change divert attention from more pressing human needs. The social scientist Bjorn Lomborg persuasively argues that the Third World suffers more from malnutrition and H.I.V./AIDS than it is likely to suffer from global warming.
 Such a balance sheet will not satisfy those who see the campaign against global warming as an evangelical cause, a way to atone for central air conditioning, S.U.V.'s and other sins against nature. But the current debate would benefit from less emotion and more calculation. Maybe we can still manage to enjoy a perfect 72-degree day, even when it arrives in January. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photograph by Tom Sandberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); EMISSIONS (88%); GREENHOUSE GASES (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); WEATHER (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); THERMAL SENSORS (73%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%)

PERSON: AL GORE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



141 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; WILLETS POINT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: At a Famous Old Eyesore, The Battle Goes On

BYLINE: By ALEX MINDLIN

 BODY:
In the early 1960s, Robert Moses took a fancy to the industrial neighborhood of Willets Point, Queens, a 13-block triangle northeast of where Shea Stadium would sit. Owners of the neighborhood's scrap yards, auto body shops and other such messy concerns banded together, hiring a young lawyer named Mario Cuomo to prevent Moses from taking the area for parkland. 
 Two decades later, the business owners of Willets Point rejoiced when a plan backed by Donald Trump failed to turn the area into a football stadium. 
 So it is no surprise that the neighborhood has bristled at the city's latest attempts to redevelop it. Two months ago, Mayor Bloomberg announced that the city intended to buy out all of Willets Point, either through negotiations or by eminent domain. The plan is to adorn the 61-acre site with 5,500 units of housing, 500,000 square feet of office space, restaurants, shops, a school, a park, a convention center and a 700-room hotel. 
 Reaction has been swift in the neighborhood, where 225 businesses employ 1,800 people, according to a study done last year by Hunter College. Business owners have piled into buses to attend rallies downtown. And Councilman Tony Avella, whose district borders Willets Point, has called the prospect of eminent domain in Willets Point ''un-American'' and threatened to vote against the plan if the city doesn't take care of the businesses.
 At the same time, most business owners seem weary of their decades of uncertainty about the neighborhood's fate. 
 ''This has been going on since I was 10 years old,'' said Danny Sambucci Jr., 49, an owner of the Sambucci Brothers scrap yard. ''Can you imagine trying to run a business for 40 years and not knowing if you're going to be here next year?'' 
 Even in Moses' day, Willets Point was a notably ugly place: he called it an ''eyesore and a disgrace to the borough of Queens.'' It has since become an astonishingly ramshackle industrial shantytown, something out of ''Mad Max,'' bereft of most city services. The unlit streets are blocked by 40-foot-long puddles of standing water, filling truck-length potholes that traffic must creep around. Since there are no sidewalks, pedestrians share the street with cars; nor are there sewer lines for toilets, and most of the buildings are jerry-rigged structures of corrugated aluminum. 
 Perhaps out of fatigue, many Willets Point merchants may be willing to leave, under the right conditions. ''Give me money, pay for my facility to be relocated somewhere, and I'll go,'' said Howard Feinstein, an owner of Feinstein Iron Works, which makes steel beams for buildings. 
 According to Bill Walsh, vice president of real estate development for the city's Economic Development Corporation, the city hopes to reach agreements with Willets Point property owners ''as soon as possible.'' He predicted that the project would reach the City Council for approval next spring. 
 Almost no one in Willets Point believes that a painless relocation is possible. ''We told the city what we need size-wise, construction-wise and access-wise,'' Mr. Feinstein said. ''But what it comes down to is, we need to be here. There is no better location in all of New York.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: No sidewalks, no sewer lines, but 225 gritty shops. (Photograph by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); PROPERTY LAW (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); EMINENT DOMAIN (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); MAYORS (74%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE BODY & INTERIOR REPAIR SHOPS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); REAL ESTATE (69%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (55%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



142 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; JACKSON HEIGHTS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Color War

BYLINE: By GREGORY BEYER

 BODY:
State Senator John Sabini, whose district includes Jackson Heights, has held public office for 15 years. One of his achievements came in 1993, when, as a city councilman, he helped persuade the Landmarks Preservation Commission to designate the Jackson Heights Historic District. 
 But Mr. Sabini, a lifelong neighborhood resident, has never himself lived within the historic district. Nor is his local office, at 88th Street and 35th Avenue, located there. ''I can't afford it,'' he explained, laughing. 
 When a historic district is born -- the city's 88th, Sunnyside Gardens, was approved on June 26 -- its neighborhood frequently becomes two neighborhoods. The street signs within the district are terra-cotta rather than the standard green, but the distinctions go far deeper than signs, involving money, aesthetics, image, even class. 
 The Jackson Heights Historic District is an example. 
 ''There are a lot of beautiful homes in that section that are not in other parts of the neighborhood,'' said Pauline Conti, an owner of Century 21 House Depot, a real estate firm. ''It's an area where the prices always have been strong. As the market changes and as the market repositions itself, it won't be as affected as much as other areas far from the historic district.''
 A 2003 study by the city's Independent Budget Office found that market values of properties in historic districts are higher and appreciate at a slightly greater rate than those outside historic districts. For example, the study, which covered the years 1975 to 2002, found that the inflation-adjusted prices of properties within historic districts rose by an average of 5.3 percent a year, while those outside historic districts rose by an average of 4.2 percent. 
 And the difference involves more than money. To walk the few blocks from Little India and other undesignated sections of Jackson Heights to the historic district is to travel from humble, sometimes teeming streets to genteel serenity. The district, which comprises 538 structures on 36 of Jackson Heights's 200 blocks, sometimes feels like a different neighborhood altogether. 
 Within the district, the two- and three-story brick buildings in the Tudor and Georgian styles, most of which were built from 1910 to the 1950s, are uniformly bordered by green lawns and black wrought-iron gates, concealing the spacious interior gardens within. Influenced by Europe's Garden City movement, which aimed to avoid crowded tenement conditions, the district's developers built the nation's first cooperative garden apartments, as well as single-family homes in the English Garden style.
 ''The rich dudes in Manhattan used to bring their mistresses here,'' Wu Ming Zhang, who has lived in the neighborhood for a decade, said of the historic district. ''They'd tell their wives they'd be gone for the weekend on business.'' 
 Daniel Karatzas, the author of the book ''Jackson Heights: A Garden in the City'' and an agent at Beaudoin Realty Group, has found that apartment buyers from outside the neighborhood not only call him but even know the names and details of the Queen Elizabeth, the Fillmore, the Belvedere and other individual buildings in the district.
 Mr. Karatzas said that storefronts on several blocks skirting the historic district voluntarily adhere to the district's aesthetic standards, using awnings of only one color on a block, rather than what he called the ''mishmash'' seen on thoroughfares outside the district. ''There's a reflected glory,'' he said.
 Like those few blocks of amenable storefronts, the exterior of Mr. Sabini's office pays subtle homage to the district of which it is not a part. 
 ''My awning is in compliance with historic district rules.'' He paused. ''I think it is. We made it forest green, which is one of the acceptable colors.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a historic district, two worlds separated by issues of money, aesthetics, even class. (Photograph by Uli Seit for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); BUDGETS (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); APPROVALS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



143 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN GLENBROOK, CONN.; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1695 words

HEADLINE: The Little Town in the City

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
A COMPACT neighborhood along the eastern edge of Stamford, Glenbrook has its own train station, post office and firehouse. A 1.7-square-mile tract with about 15,400 people, it even has a named highway exit, off Interstate 95. Hardly surprising, then, that many residents see themselves as living not in a bustling city, but in a separate small town.
 On a recent afternoon, a visit to its streets, which are lined with modest 20th-century homes, seemed only to offer further evidence of Glenbrook's discreteness. A ''lost kitten'' sign was tacked to a tree. On a front lawn, a man filled an inflatable pool with a hose. Nearby, children urged drivers to try their $5 car wash.
 But with Stamford officials planning broad redesigns of commercial areas in various city neighborhoods, all of this could be about to change. The planning department wants to rezone Glenbrook's six-block commercial center, with the stated reason of making it more architecturally attractive and pedestrian-friendly. Norman Cole, the city's principal planner, says this will effectively mean denser development and a more uniform street wall. 
 ''We want to take something that exists and breathe life into it,'' Mr. Cole said.
 Under current zoning, buildings can be set back 15 feet from the front property line and must not exceed two stories. The new zoning, which will be formally unveiled later this year, would ban setbacks and allow heights of four stories.
 Pasquale and Gloria Battinelli, longtime Glenbrook residents, live in a 1910 Greek Revival with four bedrooms, three baths and 3,000 square feet of space. Like a number of others, they are concerned that the proposed new shops and restaurants may dwarf the existing architecture. 
 ''They will overcrowd the area,'' said Mr. Battinelli, who used to serve as Glenbrook's fire chief. ''The Bronx might have buildings this large, but we shouldn't.''
 Higher density does not scare every resident, however. In fact, two decades ago, when she was first house-hunting, Christie Fountain was drawn to Glenbrook's narrow spaces, quite different from nearby New Canaan, where scrims of trees often separate houses.
 She and her husband, James, live in a 2,000-square-foot stucco-clad Craftsman with three bedrooms, three full baths and two half baths.
 ''Realtors couldn't believe we wanted to be so close to our neighbors,'' said Ms. Fountain, a fund-raiser at a Greenwich school.
 She is equally positive about the proximity of two large new residential developments planned for East Main Street, on Glenbrook's fringe: Eastside Commons, with 108 condos, and Glenview House, with 141 units. 
 Their ground-floor stores could enliven a strip once lined with car dealerships, said Ms. Fountain, who was a co-founder of the Glenbrook Neighborhood Association. 
 ''It creates a streetscape where there was none before,'' she said.
 The impending zoning change is not the only evidence of the neighborhood's susceptibility to outside real estate forces. The Battinellis' house, which cost $26,000 in 1962, might fetch $1 million today, Mr. Battinelli said, citing comparable nearby sales. Similarly, the Fountains' house, bought in 1999 for $400,000, could command $700,000 today, according to Ms. Fountain.
 Beth Masck has seen Stamford's ambitious reinvention up close, as she lived in a downtown apartment for five months before closing, in May, on a 3,600-square-foot Glenbrook colonial with four bedrooms and four and a half baths. 
 She shares the house, which cost $998,000, with her partner, Pam Woodrum, as well as Fergus and Finian, West Highland terriers, and Fyfe, a Scottie.
 While the city's economic redevelopment will surely bolster overall property values, Ms. Masck said, she nevertheless revels in Glenbrook's homey charm, which reminds her of Michigan, where she grew up. ''It feels like a neighborhood,'' she said, ''but the downtown is so close, and packed with great Italian restaurants.''
 What You'll Find
 Ms. Masck's residence is one of five new homes on a two-acre former homestead on Hope Street, which threads through the heart of Glenbrook. Like much of the neighborhood, they are on land that in the 19th century was home to summer retreats of wealthy New Yorkers. As a result, it is common to see a Queen Anne surrounded by postwar Capes, colonials and ranches. 
 Other homes were built for factory workers who churned out ball bearings, X-ray tubes and Milk of Magnesia along the Noroton River, which separates the neighborhood, along with the rest of Stamford, from Darien to the east.
 All told, single-family homes make up 65 percent of Glenbrook's stock, according to brokers, who describe them as concentrated in the neighborhood's upper reaches. Many are on cul-de-sacs or through streets ridged with speed bumps. 
 Rambling multifamily homes are found closer to the Interstate, in a section that some residents call the East Side.
 About a quarter of Glenbrook's homes are condos and co-ops, many clustered in low-rise complexes built in the 1960s along Strawberry Hill Avenue, which forms the neighborhood's western flank. 
 The Italian restaurants cited by Ms. Masck, meanwhile, hint at the ethnic makeup of Stamford, and by extension Glenbrook. In the 2000 census, 17 percent identified themselves as Italian. Other prominent groups include Irish, German and Polish. Over all, the population is 32 percent foreign-born and 76 percent white.
 What You'll Pay
 Though Gold Coast in terms of address, Glenbrook is a bargain compared with adjacent Fairfield County communities. 
 Excepting the new homes under construction, which could list for more than $1 million, few properties in Glenbrook cost more than $800,000. Some are on the market for under $500,000, though they are likely to be fixer-uppers, said Maureen Mullarkey, a sales agent with Coldwell Banker, based in Stamford.
 A 2,000-foot, 50-year-old home with three bedrooms and three baths on about a quarter acre typically sells for about $550,000. In Darien the same property would sell for $700,000, Ms. Mullarkey said.
 Even Stamford residents don't know where Glenbrook is, she said. ''But once they take a look around, they think it's great.''
 In sync with the national real estate market, values have stagnated in recent years, with prices dropping 5 percent annually since 2005, said Catherine Richardson, an associate broker with William Raveis Real Estate in Stamford.
 Homes are also sitting on the market longer, about 120 days now versus 30 two years ago, and are typically discounted at least twice in that period, she said.
 A one-bedroom rental in an older building, meanwhile, will cost $1,200 a month, though similar-size apartments in newer Avalon Glen, on Glenbrook Road, start at $2,200, brokers said.
 For those weighing Westchester against Fairfield, the lower taxes in Connecticut can often tip the scales. The bill on a 2,000-square-foot house in Glenbrook can be $4,500, versus $9,000 in Scarsdale, brokers said.
 What to Do
 Glenbrook Center, a busy plaza on Hope Street, offers a supermarket, liquor store, nail salon and sushi restaurant. Closer to the train station, which is Glenbrook's historic center, is Sezam Market, a Polish deli that sells wedliny, a spicy cured meat.
 For al fresco dining, there are restaurants lining Bedford Street, just outside Glenbrook. The shiny metal tables at the Cappriccio Cafe can be packed on sunny days.
 A quirkier afternoon might be spent at United House Wrecking, which bills itself as ''Connecticut's largest antiques store.''
 The Schools
 The Julia A. Stark School, which serves most of Glenbrook, runs from kindergarten through Grade 5. For the next three years, thereis Dolan Middle School.
 Stamford High School, one of three in town, has an enrollment of roughly 1,800. Sixty languages are spoken in Stamford, said Joshua Starr, the schools superintendent, and 34 percent of students come from homes where English is a second language. As a result, the high school offers three bilingual first-year classes.
 This year, 90 percent of graduates are going to either a two- or a four-year college. On the 2006 SAT, averages were 467 on math, 466 on reading and 473 on writing versus statewide scores of 510, 505 and 504.
 There are also popular religious schools, like Trinity Catholic High School on Newfield Avenue, an amalgam of several regional Catholic schools founded in 1991. 
 The History
 After Ulysses S. Grant left the White House in 1877, he went into an investment partnership with Ferdinand Ward, who owned a getaway in Glenbrook.
 Poker games were the primary reason that Grant headed to Connecticut, though he also wrote part of his memoirs there, said Ronald Marcus, librarian at the Stamford Historical Society.
 Visits stopped, though, after Grant realized that his partner was bilking clients. In 1884, the firm failed and Grant declared bankruptcy.
 All that remains of Ward's compound is a gatehouse, at Strawberry Hill Avenue and Holbrook Drive, fashioned appropriately enough in the General Grant Style, with bay windows and sloping roof.
 The Commute
 Glenbrook's single-platform train station, which sits on the New Canaan spur line, carries 300 riders a day, according to Josh Lecar, Stamford's transportation planner. During rush hour, when trains run express to Grand Central Terminal 37 miles away, riders can be in Midtown in 50 minutes. A monthly pass, if bought online, costs $258.72
 Anticipating growth, and aiming to alleviate crowding in Stamford's main station, the city may add a second stop in Glenbrook, either on the New Haven line or the New Canaan spur, possibly near the Courtland Avenue overpass, where one existed until the 1950s, Mr. Lecar said.
 Increasingly, though, Stamford is a work destination in itself; its investment banks crowd the skyline.
 Going Forward
 For decades, sanitation workers hauled homeowners' trash cans from backyards to trucks. But the city recently suggested that to save time and money, homeowners should do it. 
 This hasn't gone over well. ''People expect a certain level of service, and can be resistant to change,'' Ms. Fountain said. ''But that's part of the small-town way.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: GROWING PAINS?: A highlight along Hope Street is a Polish deli, left. Stamford's plans for such areas could increase heights and eliminate setbacks. (Photograph by Douglas Healey for The New York Times) Map: ''Glenbrook Connecticut'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ZONING (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); CHILDREN (75%); FUNDRAISING (74%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); RETAILERS (63%); RESTAURANTS (63%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



144 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; NOTICED; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: A Police Contract Expected to Save Millions

BYLINE: By SHELLY FEUER DOMASH

 BODY:
NASSAU'S new police contract is expected to save the county about $90 million over the next six years. It is also expected to make the department one of the lowest-paid municipal police forces on Long Island. 
The contract was decided by an independent arbitration board, which last Monday awarded the police an average annual raise of 2.96 percent through 2012. That is below the average inflation rate of 3.64 percent during the past five years in the New York metropolitan area and below the average increases of municipal police departments on the Island, according to the county. 
 The maximum base pay in Nassau now is $91,737; in Suffolk, it is $97,958.
 The contract also makes changes in termination pay, which in the past could add hundreds of thousands of dollars to a senior officer's retirement. It freezes some salary levels and cuts staffing levels as well.
 Beginning in January 2009, lump-sum termination pay is to be cut by 5 percent and limited to no more than twice an officer's salary in the final year of service. That provision was expected to lead many veteran police officers to retire before it takes effect. 
 Meanwhile, the salary for new officers was frozen at $34,000 until 2012; a second step freezes the salaries for two-year officers at $45,000. 
 For the next six years, there will be an annual 1 percent increase, rising to an annual 4 percent raise after nine years of service, under the contract's provisions. Also in six years, the annual starting salary will be increased to $45,000, and officers with nine years on the job will receive $116,000 a year. 
 In an effort to cut overtime, a minimum-staffing rule, mandating that a predetermined number of officers remain on duty in specific areas, was modified. Supervisors can now use their discretion in determining where to send officers, without incurring any overtime; union officials fought this provision in the past. 
 Other measures to cut overtime costs include having officers attend training or emergency drills during regular tours of duty and converting up to 30 police positions to civilian jobs. 
 Under the contract, the average work hours for a police officer will fall to 1,856 a year from the current 1,904.
 A committee of union and county officials was scheduled to meet during the next six months to look into ways to provide more economical health care coverage. 
 ''This provides fiscal stability for the county and provides my guys with a decent raise,'' said Gary DelaRaba, the president of the Nassau County Police Benevolent Association. 
 The Nassau County Detectives' Association and the Superior Officers Union were still negotiating with the county but were expected to have similar contracts. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gary DelaRaba (Photograph by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); OVERTIME (89%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); CITIES (72%); INFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



145 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Op-Ed; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: The Government's Con Ed Bill

BYLINE: By Charles Perrow. 
Charles Perrow, an emeritus professor of sociology at Yale, is the author of ''The Next Catastrophe: Reducing Our Vulnerabilities to Natural, Industrial and Terrorist Disasters.''

DATELINE: New Haven 

 BODY:
SHOULD American taxpayers help Con Ed provide New York City's financial district with a safer power supply? The Department of Homeland Security thinks so. It has decided to pay the electric company as much as $25 million to install a high-tech line between two substations in Lower Manhattan that would be more resilient than the current line in the event of a terrorist attack, severe weather or a simple operating error by the electric company.
Con Ed is already planning an $8 billion upgrade of its facilities in New York State. Without the federal money, the new secure line won't be part of it. 
 But the electric company ought to pay all of the cost of upgrading its corner of the nation's electric grid. And federal tax dollars should be reserved for increasing the reliability of the nation's grid as a whole, not just that part of it that goes between the two substations underneath New York City. This is the only way to avoid blackouts like the one that affected the Northeast in August 2003 or the one that crippled California in August 1996.
 The national grid is now less reliable than it has ever been, thanks to the deregulation of the electric power industry that began 15 years ago. Deregulation has led the industry to consolidate, increasing its profits. But now local failures are more frequent, blackouts are more extensive and the price of electricity has risen more than can be attributed to rising fuel costs.
 The small local utilities that once kept their pieces of the grid up to date are now consolidated into multistate entities, and these giant wholesalers of electricity have little incentive to spend money to upgrade or even maintain the grid. 
 The big wholesalers send electricity ever longer distances in order to capture small differences in local prices. But as electricity travels farther and farther -- from Ohio to Ontario, for example -- efficiency is reduced. More heat is generated on power lines. And when problems occur -- a tree branch falls on a hot, slack line, or computer software in a local office fails -- they can lead to regional blackouts. This is what happened in 2003, when a software failure near Toledo, Ohio, combined with sagging power lines and a simple error by a control room worker to cause a blackout in eight Northeastern and Midwestern states and Ontario.
 The cost of that blackout to the utilities was minuscule; to the public, it was estimated at $4 billion to $10 billion. 
 Profits in the electric power industry are high. But so far, attempts by Congress and the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (the nonprofit agency that monitors the grid) to prod the wholesalers to spend more of their profits on improving the grid, or even spend more on simple maintenance, have failed. Senator Charles Schumer of New York chided the commission that investigated the 2003 blackout for hitting ''the snooze button'' by recommending ''baby steps.'' But even baby steps like replacing mechanical relays with electronic ones are not always being taken. 
 If the Department of Homeland Security is to subsidize this profitable industry at all, it should focus its attention on such things as the vulnerable ''choke point'' (a narrowing of the grid) on the Oregon-California border. In August 1996 a squirrel cut off the power flowing from the Northwestern states to California, causing a 9-state blackout. 
 In contrast, when the 9/11 disaster disrupted the lines under Wall Street, the financial district barely skipped a beat. Cellphones and Internet connections kept businesses running during the short time when power was out. And most companies operating there had learned from the first World Trade Center terrorist attack, in 1993, to back up their critical data. 
 It may be true that the New York City financial district has a hammerlock on our economy, but that does not mean taxpayers in all 50 states should pay to keep its power supply safe. Con Edison should make this upgrade -- and do all the other work needed on its portion of the power grid -- on its own. That will no doubt require adding far more than $25 million to the proposed $8 billion in spending.
 As deregulation of the electric power industry has advanced over the past 15 years, industrial accidents, natural disasters and terrorist threats have all increased as well. It is time that power companies paid their share of costs to prepare for them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); WHOLESALERS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (77%); SOFTWARE DEFECTS (76%); TERRORISM (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (84%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



146 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Can China Reform Itself?

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN; Jake Hooker contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BEIJING 
 PHONY fertilizer destroys crops. Stores shelves are filled with deodorized rotten eggs, and chemical glucose is passed off as honey. Exports slump when European regulators find dangerous bacteria in packaged meat.
 More product safety scandals in China? Not this time. These quality problems prompted a sluggish United States government to tighten food and drug regulation 101 years ago, when President Theodore Roosevelt signed the act that created the Food and Drug Administration.
 Like America's industrializing economy a century ago, China's is powered by zealous entrepreneurs who sometimes act like pirates. Both countries suffered epidemics of fatal fakes, and both have had regulators who were too inept, corrupt or hamstrung to do much about it.
 The question now is whether Chinese factories, caught exporting poisonous pharmaceutical ingredients, filthy shellfish, bogus pet food and faulty tires, can react in time to head off more damage to their reputation. 
 Or, to put it another way, are the latest incidents enough to push China toward its own Progressive Era?
 The answer, say people who have studied the country's regulatory system, is a cautious yes. But first, they say, Beijing must take a fresh approach to inspecting and policing its often unruly economy.
 Chinese exporters sold nearly $1 trillion worth of goods overseas last year. Fakes and shoddy goods, by most measures, made up no more than a tiny fraction of that total. Yet the string of product safety scandals reflects a persistent roguish undercurrent in the Chinese economy that extensive media coverage, new laws and tougher enforcement have not eliminated.
 Teddy Roosevelt's government had to overcome ideological opposition to regulating private-sector commerce. 
 China has a different political challenge: Its authoritarian government, though under the control of one party, has struggled to develop a modern, unified regulatory system that can supervise a dynamic market economy.
 ''Competition inside our bureaucracy has led to a diffusion of power and a tendency to shirk responsibility,'' says Mao Shoulong, a public policy expert at People's University in Beijing. ''Cracking down on individual criminals doesn't solve the problem. We need to fix the whole system.''
 Safety lapses are a serious side effect of China's gradual and still incomplete efforts to separate politics and business. To spur economic growth in the 1980s, top leaders gave local-level officials more power. The goal was to undercut socialist conservatives in the central government who exercised tight controls. Regulatory power was also scattered. 
 Growth surged. Entrepreneurs, foreign investors and peasant farmers assumed a dominant role in production. But safety, as well as labor and environmental standards, fell by the wayside.
 Scores of people died after ingesting bathtub baijiu, or rice wine, that substituted cheap industrial-grade alcohol for the real stuff. Condiments used as spices for hot-pot cooking contained paraffin wax. Vermicelli noodles carried a cancer-causing agent, as did a popular red dye, called Sudan Red, that was used by Kentucky Fried Chicken and Heinz, among other companies.
 Hundreds of parents in Liaoning Province were so frustrated by the local government's response to a spate of food poisonings at a school cafeteria in 2003 that they blockaded the local railroad.
 Perhaps the most sensational case occurred in 2004, when small factories in central China produced cheap infant milk formula that lacked protein. Some 50 infants in Anhui Province died from malnutrition after their parents and some doctors mistook their symptoms -- bloated faces and hands -- as a sign of overfeeding. 
 Since then, regulatory efforts have been strengthened, but often with limited results. As many as 17 bureaucracies have overlapping responsibilities in just the food and drug sphere, and they jealously guard their power. The Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, and the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine have all vied for monitoring roles. 
 The reason: They wanted to collect license fees and fines to supplement their measly budgets. No less significantly, inspectors and their bosses could collect bribes in exchange for favors.
 ''It came down to turf warfare between departments,'' said Roger Skinner, a retired British regulator who advised the Chinese government on improving food safety on behalf of the World Health Organization. ''If they can't enforce, they will lose revenue.''
 Realizing they had created a muddle of competing bureaucracies, top leaders in 2003 formed the State Food and Drug Administration, named after its American counterpart, that on paper had ''super-ministerial authority'' to coordinate all the others that monitored the politically sensitive food and drug sphere.
 The agency quickly fell victim to infighting, however, and lost clout in 2005, when its first director, Zheng Xiaoyu, was forced out. He was later convicted of taking bribes for speeding approval of new drugs. After the latest string of safety scandals erupted, Mr. Zheng was sentenced to death.
 Blurred lines of responsibility and weak investigative powers partly explain why Chinese regulators gave little help to their American counterparts in the most fatal example of China's safety problems reaching foreign shores. 
 In 1997 and again last year, the Americans sought information about why Chinese chemical companies had exported counterfeit glycerin, containing poisonous diethylene glycol, that ended up in medical products in Haiti and Panama. Scores of people who consumed the products in both countries died. 
 The diethylene glycol was made in Chinese chemical factories, but ended up in pharmaceutical products. That meant it fell into a regulatory void. No agency wanted to take control.
 ''You get buck-passing, frankly, between ministries,'' said Mr. Skinner, the British regulator. ''One ministry says, 'It wasn't my job to do that, it was this other ministry.' ''
 Even so, many experts argue that the capitalist excesses that have thrived during China's economic transition have already sparked corrective action, not totally unlike the Progressive Era changes in the United States.
 President Hu Jintao has pushed through a series of measures under the slogan of ''scientific development'' that aim to strengthen central regulators and economic planners, reduce abuses of low-wage workers, and protect the degraded environment. 
 He has met plenty of resistance, and it remains unclear how much he will pull back from China's fast-growth development model.
 Though some political and corporate forces argue that China needs to grow richer before it can address labor and environmental problems, there are few vested interests that defend the rights of fly-by-night factories to inject poison into medicine or leave the protein out of infant formula. With China's reputation having taken a hit in the United States, resistance to tightening standards seems likely to fade.
 ''I think Chinese leaders are deeply alarmed,'' said Dali Yang, a Chinese governance expert at the East Asian Institute in Singapore. ''They will not let a tiny percentage of bad exports damage their reputation.''
 Mr. Yang said that big Chinese cities have already demonstrated that they can do a better job monitoring food and drug safety than less developed counties and rural areas. Retail and restaurant chains and brand-name manufacturers have also gained market share versus small-scale operations, partly because Chinese consumers want toavoid fake or dangerous goods.
 The state-run media has been given unusual latitude to expose shoddy goods. One of the most popular shows on China Central Television, ''Weekly Quality Report,'' investigates accidents, poisonings and cheap fakes. Recent topics include defective motorcycle helmets, a faux rabies vaccine, faulty tires and toxic food additives.
 Even the United States F.D.A., which China considers a model of regulatory might, has issues that might sound familiar in Beijing. Its bureaucrats have complained that tight budgets and competition with 11 other federal regulatory agencies have made it harder to police the food supply.
 And while that agency was created in the regulatory rush of 1906, it took more than 55 years, until the Kennedy administration, for the F.D.A. to acquire the powers it sought to ensure a safe drug supply.
 ''I'd be surprised,'' Mr. Yang said, ''if it takes China that long.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: REGULATORS WANTED Top, a Chicago meat-processing plant in 1906, the year the United States created the Food and Drug Administration. Above, an illegal pork-processing plant in Beijing that was closed in late June amid concerns over diseased meat. (Photographs by Color China Photo, via Associated Press)(pg. WK 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); FERTILIZERS (90%); PRODUCT SAFETY (90%); SCANDALS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ANIMAL FOODS (78%); MEATS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); QUALITY CONTROL (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); POLITICS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); CARCINOGENS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); PET FOODS (72%); CANCER (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (65%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (65%); TIRES (54%); PARAFFIN (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



147 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1779 words

HEADLINE: The Road Home

 BODY:
It is time for the United States to leave Iraq, without any more delay than the Pentagon needs to organize an orderly exit.
 Like many Americans, we have put off that conclusion, waiting for a sign that President Bush was seriously trying to dig the United States out of the disaster he created by invading Iraq without sufficient cause, in the face of global opposition, and without a plan to stabilize the country afterward. 
 At first, we believed that after destroying Iraq's government, army, police and economic structures, the United States was obliged to try to accomplish some of the goals Mr. Bush claimed to be pursuing, chiefly building a stable, unified Iraq. When it became clear that the president had neither the vision nor the means to do that, we argued against setting a withdrawal date while there was still some chance to mitigate the chaos that would most likely follow.
 While Mr. Bush scorns deadlines, he kept promising breakthroughs -- after elections, after a constitution, after sending in thousands more troops. But those milestones came and went without any progress toward a stable, democratic Iraq or a path for withdrawal. It is frighteningly clear that Mr. Bush's plan is to stay the course as long as he is president and dump the mess on his successor. Whatever his cause was, it is lost. 
 The political leaders Washington has backed are incapable of putting national interests ahead of sectarian score settling. The security forces Washington has trained behave more like partisan militias. Additional military forces poured into the Baghdad region have failed to change anything. 
 Continuing to sacrifice the lives and limbs of American soldiers is wrong. The war is sapping the strength of the nation's alliances and its military forces. It is a dangerous diversion from the life-and-death struggle against terrorists. It is an increasing burden on American taxpayers, and it is a betrayal of a world that needs the wise application of American power and principles.
 A majority of Americans reached these conclusions months ago. Even in politically polarized Washington, positions on the war no longer divide entirely on party lines. When Congress returns this week, extricating American troops from the war should be at the top of its agenda.
 That conversation must be candid and focused. Americans must be clear that Iraq, and the region around it, could be even bloodier and more chaotic after Americans leave. There could be reprisals against those who worked with American forces, further ethnic cleansing, even genocide. Potentially destabilizing refugee flows could hit Jordan and Syria. Iran and Turkey could be tempted to make power grabs. Perhaps most important, the invasion has created a new stronghold from which terrorist activity could proliferate.
 The administration, the Democratic-controlled Congress, the United Nations and America's allies must try to mitigate those outcomes -- and they may fail. But Americans must be equally honest about the fact that keeping troops in Iraq will only make things worse. The nation needs a serious discussion, now, about how to accomplish a withdrawal and meet some of the big challenges that will arise.
 The Mechanics of Withdrawal
 The United States has about 160,000 troops and millions of tons of military gear inside Iraq. Getting that force out safely will be a formidable challenge. The main road south to Kuwait is notoriously vulnerable to roadside bomb attacks. Soldiers, weapons and vehicles will need to be deployed to secure bases while airlift and sealift operations are organized. Withdrawal routes will have to be guarded. The exit must be everything the invasion was not: based on reality and backed by adequate resources.
 The United States should explore using Kurdish territory in the north of Iraq as a secure staging area. Being able to use bases and ports in Turkey would also make withdrawal faster and safer. Turkey has been an inconsistent ally in this war, but like other nations, it should realize that shouldering part of the burden of the aftermath is in its own interest.
 Accomplishing all of this in less than six months is probably unrealistic. The political decision should be made, and the target date set, now.
 The Fight Against Terrorists
 Despite President Bush's repeated claims, Al Qaeda had no significant foothold in Iraq before the invasion, which gave it new base camps, new recruits and new prestige. 
 This war diverted Pentagon resources from Afghanistan, where the military had a real chance to hunt down Al Qaeda's leaders. It alienated essential allies in the war against terrorism. It drained the strength and readiness of American troops. 
 And it created a new front where the United States will have to continue to battle terrorist forces and enlist local allies who reject the idea of an Iraq hijacked by international terrorists. The military will need resources and bases to stanch this self- inflicted wound for the foreseeable future.
 The Question of Bases
 The United States could strike an agreement with the Kurds to create those bases in northeastern Iraq. Or, the Pentagon could use its bases in countries like Kuwait and Qatar, and its large naval presence in the Persian Gulf, as staging points.
 There are arguments for, and against, both options. Leaving troops in Iraq might make it too easy -- and too tempting -- to get drawn back into the civil war and confirm suspicions that Washington's real goal was to secure permanent bases in Iraq. Mounting attacks from other countries could endanger those nations' governments.
 The White House should make this choice after consultation with Congress and the other countries in the region, whose opinions the Bush administration has essentially ignored. The bottom line: the Pentagon needs enough force to stage effective raids and airstrikes against terrorist forces in Iraq, but not enough to resume large-scale combat.
 The Civil War
 One of Mr. Bush's arguments against withdrawal is that it would lead to civil war. That war is raging, right now, and it may take years to burn out. Iraq may fragment into separate Kurdish, Sunni and Shiite republics, and American troops are not going to stop that from happening.
 It is possible, we suppose, that announcing a firm withdrawal date might finally focus Iraq's political leaders and neighboring governments on reality. Ideally, it could spur Iraqi politicians to take the steps toward national reconciliation that they have endlessly discussed but refused to act on.
 But it is foolish to count on that, as some Democratic proponents of withdrawal have done. The administration should use whatever leverage it gains from withdrawing to press its allies and Iraq's neighbors to help achieve a negotiated solution.
 Iraq's leaders -- knowing that they can no longer rely on the Americans to guarantee their survival -- might be more open to compromise, perhaps to a Bosnian-style partition, with economic resources fairly shared but with millions of Iraqis forced to relocate. That would be better than the slow-motion ethnic and religious cleansing that has contributed to driving one in seven Iraqis from their homes. 
 The United States military cannot solve the problem. Congress and the White House must lead an international attempt at a negotiated outcome. To start, Washington must turn to the United Nations, which Mr. Bush spurned and ridiculed as a preface to war.
 The Human Crisis
 There are already nearly two million Iraqi refugees, mostly in Syria and Jordan, and nearly two million more Iraqis who have been displaced within their country. Without the active cooperation of all six countries bordering Iraq -- Turkey, Iran, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Syria -- and the help of other nations, this disaster could get worse. Beyond the suffering, massive flows of refugees -- some with ethnic and political resentments -- could spread Iraq's conflict far beyond Iraq's borders. 
 Kuwait and Saudi Arabia must share the burden of hosting refugees. Jordan and Syria, now nearly overwhelmed with refugees, need more international help. That, of course, means money. The nations of Europe and Asia have a stake and should contribute. The United States will have to pay a large share of the costs, but should also lead international efforts, perhaps a donors' conference, to raise money for the refugee crisis. 
 Washington also has to mend fences with allies. There are new governments in Britain, France and Germany that did not participate in the fight over starting this war and are eager to get beyond it. But that will still require a measure of humility and a commitment to multilateral action that this administration has never shown. And, however angry they were with President Bush for creating this mess, those nations should see that they cannot walk away from the consequences. To put it baldly, terrorism and oil make it impossible to ignore. 
 The United States has the greatest responsibilities, including the admission of many more refugees for permanent resettlement. The most compelling obligation is to the tens of thousands of Iraqis of courage and good will -- translators, embassy employees, reconstruction workers -- whose lives will be in danger because they believed the promises and cooperated with the Americans.
 The Neighbors
 One of the trickiest tasks will be avoiding excessive meddling in Iraq by its neighbors -- America's friends as well as its adversaries.
 Just as Iran should come under international pressure to allow Shiites in southern Iraq to develop their own independent future, Washington must help persuade Sunni powers like Syria not to intervene on behalf of Sunni Iraqis. Turkey must be kept from sending troops into Kurdish territories.
 For this effort to have any remote chance, Mr. Bush must drop his resistance to talking with both Iran and Syria. Britain, France, Russia, China and other nations with influence have a responsibility to help. Civil war in Iraq is a threat to everyone, especially if it spills across Iraq's borders. 
 President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney have used demagoguery and fear to quell Americans' demands for an end to this war. They say withdrawing will create bloodshed and chaos and encourage terrorists. Actually, all of that has already happened -- the result of this unnecessary invasion and the incompetent management of this war.
 This country faces a choice. We can go on allowing Mr. Bush to drag out this war without end or purpose. Or we can insist that American troops are withdrawn as quickly and safely as we can manage -- with as much effort as possible to stop the chaos from spreading. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (72%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (67%); REFUGEES (65%); GENOCIDE (63%); TERRORISM (62%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); JORDAN (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



148 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2719 words

HEADLINE: Building Up, Downtown

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
ERIK A. KAISER plunges through the vine-tangled woods that surround the long abandoned Glenwood power plant on the Hudson River in Yonkers as rapidly as he talks.
He has big plans to convert the plant, which closed in 1964, into a glamorous contemporary art museum topped by luxury lofts, condominiums and apartments, combining what he calls ''extreme architecture and sustainability,'' the likes of which have never been seen in this working-class city.
 The first floor, like much of Yonkers's once industrial waterfront, offers IMAX-like views of the Hudson River and the Palisades in New Jersey. Visible to the south on a clear morning were the George Washington Bridge, Manhattan and the Goldman Sachs tower, New Jersey's tallest building. 
 Mr. Kaiser said he would preserve the handsome red-brick exterior of the power plant, while erecting a six-story glass box on top of the north wing and planting a jagged multicolored 25-story tower inside the south wing. 
 He vows that the $250 million project will be ''a piece of art'' that will attract people from around the world. It's heady talk in a city left for dead after the Alexander Smith carpet mills and the Otis Elevator factories closed more than a quarter century ago. Even during the real estate booms in the 1980s and 1990s, the city found it hard to scare up interest from developers or companies interested in relocation.
 But Mr. Kaiser, who is based in Hoboken, where another industrial waterfront was transformed over the past 25 years into a gold coast thicket of high-rise towers, lofts, town houses and marinas, is only one of many developers now prowling the Yonkers waterfront and its sagging downtown. Whatever the fate of his proposal, projects worth $5 billion are in the pipeline in Yonkers, including as many as 17 high-rise residential towers planned for the city's 4.5-mile-long waterfront.
 ''At the end of the day, you'll look up and down the Hudson and all you'll see are high rises,'' said Louis R. Cappelli, another developer with big plans for Yonkers.
 Young people and executives who have fled high-priced Manhattan for Yonkers can find apartments for half the price, with an urban ambience, waterfront views and a 20-minute train ride to Midtown. In what some residents regard as a sign of civilization akin to the day Starbucks opened in Jersey City, a chic restaurant, X20 Xaviars on the Hudson, opened last month on the Yonkers city pier, opposite the newly renovated train station.
 To be sure, Yonkers is still four years or so behind New Rochelle, N.Y., White Plains, Stamford and other newly resurgent older suburbs and cities on the comeback trail. Luxury apartments are stacking up in ever taller towers in a thriving downtown White Plains, which looked like a ghost town after 5 p.m. as recently as 2001. And Stamford, where the mayor has promoted high-density residential development near the train station, is poised to become Connecticut's largest city and a powerful financial center.
 In New Jersey, the redevelopment of the factories, warehouses and rail yards that lined the Hudson County waterfront between Jersey City and Weehawken began in the 1970s. High-rise office towers started going up along the waterfront in the 1980s, slowed during a recession in the early '90s, and then took off again a couple of years later as Manhattan surged. Now, development is seeping from the waterfront into downtown Jersey City, where residential towers are springing up. Rahway, to the south, is also getting its share of attention from developers, with projects like a 16-story hotel and luxury condominium building opposite the train station. 
 But it is the remarkable turnaround in Yonkers, New York's fourth-largest city, that raises the question: Is there hope for still-down-on-their-luck cities like Paterson and Camden in New Jersey, Hempstead on Long Island and Bridgeport? 
 Immigration is fueling the growth of many outlying cities and towns in the New York metropolitan region. Baby boomers are beginning to retire, and there is an increasing demand for young educated workers. Middle-age empty nesters and young adults have shown a new willingness to live in urban areas.
 ''We're at a point where there are a series of demographic and economic trends that revalue the special qualities of older cities,'' said Jennifer S. Vey, a senior researcher at the Brookings Institution in Washington and the author of ''Restoring Prosperity,'' a report that said economic and social changes could offer renewal opportunities in many older industrial cities. ''There's no doubt these trends are putting the wind at the back of a lot of cities, giving them opportunities to capitalize on their assets.''
 James Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, agreed. ''Certainly the prospects are a lot better today than 20 years ago,'' he said.
 Still, daunting problems remain. Paterson has failed to find replacements for the manufacturing industries that dominated decades ago, while crime and poverty remain persistent problems, Mr. Hughes said. Camden, Trenton and Bridgeport face similar problems. On Long Island, officials governing the latticework of towns and villages zealously guard the low-scale suburban zoning, prohibiting taller residential buildings near their train stations and highways that might enliven their downtown areas.
 ''We would love to have what is happening in Westchester happen in our downtowns in Nassau County,'' said Thomas R. Suozzi, the county executive. ''Maybe the buildings don't have to be that tall, but we need that kind of density in select locations, near train stations for instance, in order to sustain the next generations.''
 Stamford, White Plains, New Rochelle and Yonkers all benefit from their proximity to Manhattan, where the rent for prime space in Midtown has topped $100 per square foot and the average price of an apartment is more than $1.2 million. 
 ''The cities are happening because Manhattan's happening,'' said Mr. Cappelli, who is building more than $2 billion worth of increasingly tall towers in New Rochelle, White Plains, Stamford and, soon, Yonkers. ''People are being priced out of Manhattan.''
 Some real estate executives say the condominium market in Westchester is softening and a downturn in the economy could bring the boom to an end. But there is no question that there is a demand for high-end housing in downtown areas. 
 Politicians, planners and developers draw a distinction between White Plains and Stamford, satellite cities that have become employment centers in their own right, and New Rochelle and Yonkers, many of whose residents work elsewhere. Indeed, on a workday morning, more people today are getting off the Metro-North trains in Stamford and White Plains to go to work than are getting on the trains bound for Manhattan.
 In White Plains and Stamford, there was a burst of new construction in the late 1980s, but by the early '90s many office buildings became plagued by high vacancy rates as companies reduced workers, closed offices or moved. The downtowns were commercial districts, largely devoid of life in the evenings. In the late '90s, workers at UBS, the Swiss financial giant in Stamford that now has 4,000 employees, often complained that aside from a Morton's steakhouse, there was little else in the surrounding downtown area.
 In recent years, Stamford's mayor, Dannell P. Malloy, has encouraged the development of housing downtown. The city also adopted regulations in 2003 requiring developers to set rents for at least 10 percent of their units at more modest levels, for firefighters, teachers and other members of the work force.
 Mr. Cappelli and a business partner, Thomas L. Rich, are about to break ground on a $165 million 34-story residential tower called Trump Parc in downtown Stamford. Mr. Cappelli is also proposing a $500 million Ritz-Carlton hotel and condominium complex. In the city's south end, between Interstate 95 and the Long Island Sound, plans are under way for a $3.5 billion residential and retail development in a neighborhood of working-class housing, vacant factories and motorcycle shops.
 ''Stamford came back to life when people started living downtown again,'' said Anthony E. Malkin, president of W&M Properties. ''Stamford added movie theaters, bars and restaurants and encouraged transit-oriented development. There was street life.''
 The story is similar in White Plains. Mr. Cappelli said many rival developers thought he was ''insane'' in 2001 when he bought a vacant department store building in the heart of downtown and began planning City Center, a retail complex with two luxury apartment towers. 
 ''They said, 'Who would want to live in a high rise in Westchester?' '' Mr. Cappelli recalled. ''This was an absolute ghost town. Nobody wanted to be here. Now it's become a 24-hour city.'' 
 He said the 212 apartments were snapped up by a mix of empty nesters who lived in White Plains and executives who worked in Manhattan.
 Now, Mr. Cappelli is rushing to complete a $500 million Ritz-Carlton project nearby. The hotel is flanked by two 47-story condominium towers with the blue-black glass and sharp angles of modern Manhattan skyscrapers. The city council was so eager to see downtown development that they raised the height limit for the towers three times. Mr. Cappelli said he is now getting $1,000 a square foot for apartments that would cost $2,500 in Manhattan. 
 But with downtown real estate booming, the city council no longer seems so eager to put the city's fate in Mr. Cappelli's hands. The council recently balked at granting him exclusive development rights until January to a five-acre, city-owned parcel near the train station where he has proposed the $850 million State Square project, a mix of office buildings, a garage and a firehouse. They wanted to see what other developers might offer.
 There is great hope that Newark may also be on its way back. The city has been grappling with the devastating loss of industrial jobs since the end of World War II. Department stores fled long ago, and the city has been dogged by political scandal and crime.
 But Newark still has all the features that made it a mighty city, including a seaport, trains to Manhattan and access to major highways. And many developers who have bought buildings downtown over the past 10 years hope the new mayor, Corey A. Booker, will succeed in reining in crime and promoting new projects.
 STILL, Newark has spent a lot of money chasing what the Brookings Institution calls ''fads'' -- like a minor-league baseball stadium and the soon to open $375 million Prudential Center, the arena where the New Jersey Devils hockey team will play -- rather than capitalizing on the city's unique assets. 
 Yonkers is also pursuing a minor league stadium in hopes of attracting visitors downtown. 
 ''Even with hard evidence that such projects rarely pay the expected dividends,'' the report said, ''city leaders continue to pursue them.''
 Although politicians and developers have talked about the redevelopment of the industrial waterfront in Yonkers for more than 40 years, it is only now starting to happen. There are plans to add 8,000 housing units over the next 10 years. Later this year, construction is expected to begin on two 25-story glass towers on the waterfront and on the $650 million Ridge Hill Village development between I-87 and the Sprain Brook Parkway.
 Downtown, the first phase of River Park Center -- a combination of shops, movie theaters, parking and a ballpark -- is also moving closer to construction. 
 But the city was hobbled for decades by crime, poor schools, political scandals, the continuing loss of industrial jobs and a bitter, long-running desegregation battle.
 Over the past 10 years, the city developed its own plans for development, used a package of tax breaks and state aid to entice developers and employers, and invested $133.5 million in projects including a new library, a refurbished pier, a municipal garage and a $13 million esplanade along the waterfront. The waterfront was rezoned for dense residential and retail development.
 ''It took us years to shed this image as a racist city where everything is very politicized,'' said Mayor Philip A. Amicone of Yonkers. ''We had to show that government was stable and solid. We're taking active steps to improve the downtown area and passive steps to avoid gentrification. We've intentionally not rezoned some neighborhoods so there's no incentive for developers.''
 Yonkers is still very much a working-class city, with aging three- and four-story apartment buildings, small houses and shops lining the steep streets that lead down to the Hudson. An estimated 70 percent of the children in the public schools live at or below the poverty line. East of the Saw Mill Parkway, the city takes on a more middle-class, suburban character.
 Downtown, Kawasaki is manufacturing subway cars in an old Otis Elevator factory, and the Domino sugar plant, one of the county's last riverfront factories, is still operating. But there are more high-tech jobs at Aureon Laboratories, a biomedical research and testing firm that opened in an old factory. Point of Purchase, which designs and manufactures marketing displays, consolidated its operations and moved from Queens to Yonkers with 1,200 engineering and production jobs. Yonkers Raceway added about 1,500 jobs last year when it built a $290 million casino with 5,500 high-tech slot machines.
 Arthur Collins II, a principal at Collins Enterprises, the only developer that has actually built on the Yonkers waterfront, said it was the city's decision to develop a master plan and spend money on the new library, garage and esplanade that prompted his company to build Hudson Park, a 266-apartment complex rising to nine stories on the waterfront, next to the train station. It took years to start construction, but the project sold out, and Mr. Collins is now building the second phase, 294 apartments in a 12-story building just to the north.
 But now that Yonkers is poised to take off, there is debate over what the waterfront development should look like. Some residents and Scenic Hudson, an environmental group long active in the Hudson Valley, have criticized the 25-story towers proposed in various projects.
 They say it is not just a matter of protecting the environment or the views of the working-class neighborhoods behind the proposed high-rises. Despite the esplanade, they contend, a wall of towers would convey a sense of a private enclave. 
 ''We think it's great that the mayor is providing strong leadership for the redevelopment of the waterfront,'' said Ned Sullivan, the president of Scenic Hudson, which wants to limit the height of buildings to no more than nine stories and has recommended more affordable housing, and more restaurants, shops and activities to attract people to the waterfront.
 ''We just want to make sure that as the Yonkers renaissance occurs, the entire community benefits,'' Mr. Sullivan said. ''We believe that the waterfront, in particular, should be a public resource. If only the wealthy people live there, then people from other economic sectors will feel it's only for the rich.''
 But Mr. Amicone, who is running for re-election, rejected the criticism. The new buildings will include affordable housing, he said. More important, he said, developers could not afford to build new projects if they were restricted to low-scale construction.
 ''You have to consider the cost of cleaning contaminated soil and building on piles,'' Mr. Amicone said. ''There has to be enough density to make a profit.''
 Peter X. Kelly, the chef and restaurateur who opened X20 Xaviars on the Hudson, is just happy to see that Yonkers is on its way back. He grew up in a large family in the William A. Schlobohm housing project in Yonkers. The opening of the restaurant created something in Yonkers that many residents had not seen before: a downtown traffic jam.
 ''The potential is huge, when you think about places like Brooklyn, SoHo and TriBeCa before they were developed,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''This is not a destination now, but I believe we're building a landmark restaurant that'll have an enduring impact on the community.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: SKY-HIGH: From top: Development along the Yonkers waterfront includes the Hudson Park apartments, which reach up to 9 stories
a second phase of the project will rise 12 stories. The soaring UBS complex in Stamford is home to 4,000 workers. Restrictions on the height of the Ritz-Carlton project in White Plains were raised three times.
 EVER UPWARD: A $500 million construction project in White Plains featuring two 47-story condominium towers flanking a Ritz-Carlton hotel is being completed by the developer Louis R. Cappelli. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); MARINAS (75%); CARPET & RUG MILLS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); TRAINS (63%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%); PLANT CLOSINGS (58%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



149 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE COUNT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: Where Help Is Wanted, Almost Desperately

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI

 BODY:
Want to increase your chances of getting a job? Move to the wide-open state of Idaho. Along with Montana, Utah and Hawaii, it is among the states with the very lowest unemployment in the nation, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
 Nationwide, the jobless rate is at a comfortably low 4.5 percent. But in Idaho it is exceptionally low -- recently, it came in at 2.3 percent, which had the state's own analysts scratching their heads in amazement.
 The reason that workers are in such demand in Idaho? The state is attracting new businesses with incentives and with lower-than-average wages and workers' comp rates, said Bob Fick, communications manager for the state's Department of Labor.
 The low jobless rate may be a boon to workers, but it is a headache for employers -- especially for those seeking workers at the lowest rungs of the jobs ladder. ''You can't swing a dead cat without hitting a help-wanted sign,'' Mr. Fick said. 
 PHYLLIS KORKKI

GRAPHIC: Map: ''Out of Work'' Unemployment rate, May 2007 Map shows United States by state unemployment rate. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (73%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (73%); STATISTICS (71%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (94%); IDAHO, USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



150 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Shopping And Not Dropping

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
ECONOMIC growth has been easing, but consumers keep spending with ease -- as long as homes aren't on their shopping lists. Two reports this week will be studied for signs that consumers may be more inclined to keep their money in their pockets. 
 ''Consumers are facing several headwinds,'' said Russ Koesterich, senior portfolio manager at Barclays Global Investors in San Francisco. ''Gas prices are spiking, housing has flattened out and interest rates have backed up during the last couple of months.''
 Yet they keep spending. The main reason, he said, is that the headwinds are balanced by one refreshing gust from the other direction.
 ''People have jobs for the most part, and wages have been climbing,'' he said. ''As long as the employment numbers hold up, spending should, too.''
 Spending is likely to be less resilient among shoppers with lower incomes. High energy prices hit them the hardest, and that may hamper spending at restaurants and clothing stores, he said.
 A Bloomberg News poll of economists forecasts that the retail sales report due on Friday will show a 0.1 percent increase for June after a far more robust -- but far less sustainable -- gain of 1.4 percent for May. That figure, the best since early last year, was pumped up by aggressive price cuts intended to bring customers back into the stores after a very slow April.
 The Bloomberg poll predicts a slight increase in the University of Michigan consumer confidence survey, due later on Friday, to a reading of 86 for July from 85.3 in June. It will be the first of two readings for July.
 Mr. Koesterich concurs with the poll in anticipating a much smaller retail sales figure, but he foresees further sluggishness in the confidence survey. He is not worried about it, however. ''I expect it to be a little bit on the weak side, but I don't think it matters much,'' he said. ''You need to pay attention to what consumers do, not what they say. Their actions are not consistent with how they say they feel in surveys.''
 A confidence figure that is up or down a point from last month is unlikely to move the stock or bond market, he said. A tepid retail sales figure should be well received, he said, as long as it is just soft enough to relieve concerns about rising bond yields without raising doubts about the economy's health.
 ''As the market appears particularly fixated on long-term rates, I think a modestly weak number would actually be good for equities, as it would be bond market friendly,'' he said.
 DATA WATCH Friday is the busiest day by far on the economic calendar this week. One earlier report that may attract interest is the snapshot, due on Thursday, of the nation's trade balance in May. The deficit is estimated to have widened to $60 billion from $58.5 billion in April.
 One of the first big companies to report second-quarter earnings will be Genentech, the biotechnology concern.Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimate profit of 71 cents a share when the company announces results on Wednesday, up from 52 cents a share in the second quarter of 2006. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BONDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (84%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (79%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); PRICE CUTTING (71%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (67%); RESTAURANTS (67%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTORS NA (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



151 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; HOMEFRONT; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Where Disabilities Aren't Allowed to Win

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED. 
E-mail: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHEN Jesus Montero, 28, immigrated from Peru six years ago to join his mother and begin a new life in New York, he had three strikes against him. 
 Mr. Montero is deaf, he cannot speak, and he reads only ''a little Spanish and less English,'' he said last month through a sign-language interpreter. As a result, he said, the jobs he could get were on the level of ''washing cars, making hamburgers -- not steady work, and it paid little.'' 
 But now things are looking up. Since April, he has been training to become a steadily employed building cleaner at a wage that he expects will allow him to live more comfortably and be financially independent of his relatives. 
 Mr. Montero, a resident of Queens, was recently practicing vacuuming at Fedcap Rehabilitation Services, a 72-year-old nonprofit organization in Manhattan. Fedcap runs job training and employment programs for people with physical, developmental or learning disabilities or mental illness.
 The clients, who are New York City residents, are trained for one of a variety of vocations, including mailroom and data entry jobs, cleaning, general office work, food service and hotel work. Clients are then placed with private or public employers, or hired by Fedcap itself.
 In addition to running the training programs, Fedcap has contracts to provide companies and federal, state and city agencies with workers. Many of the 1,200 former trainees now on Fedcap's payroll are assigned to locations like courthouses, office buildings, the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island, and the Long Island Rail Road area of Pennsylvania Station.
 The 1,200 workers average nearly $15 an hour, or $600 for a 40-hour week, Fedcap says. Those hired by other employers have starting wages averaging about $10 an hour.
 The organization was founded in 1935 as the Federation of Crippled and Disabled. It became the Federation of the Handicapped in the 1940s and Fedcap Rehabilitation Services in 1992.
 ''We have broadened our mission over the years,'' said Susan Fonfa, the organization's executive director. ''At first, most of the people we served were people with physical disabilities, but we expanded to include people with other disabilities like learning disabilities and mental illnesses.'' At various times, Fedcap has also trained people who were not disabled but were unemployed for other reasons or were seeking to get off welfare rolls, she said.
 Today, 5 percent of the trainees are not in any disability category but are jobless because they have other barriers to employment, like poor English skills, said a spokeswoman for the group, Haley Gilman.
 The training, which is full time and runs from three to six months, is free to the clients, who are referred by public agencies, including the state's Office of Vocational and Educational Services for Individuals With Disabilities and the federal Department of Veterans Affairs.
 Last year Fedcap enrolled 230 people with disabilities in its training programs, Ms. Gilman said. About 90 percent completed their courses, and 90 percent of those who did so were placed in jobs -- about half with Fedcap for its staffing service and half with other employers, she said. 
 Generally, 90 percent of the people who go to work for Fedcap are still with it after one year, and nearly 75 percent after five years, the organization says. But it lacks reliable data on how many of those hired by other employers are still in the work force after a year, because once they complete the training Fedcap often loses touch with them, said Jennifer Bertrand, its community relations director. 
 At Fedcap's training center in the Chelsea neighborhood last month, Mr. Montero said through the interpreter, ''I'm learning how to clean the floors and offices now, and I've already learned cleaning bathrooms.''
 Ivan Cruz, 29, of Brooklyn, who was being trained for mailroom work, said that a steadily worsening eye disease had cost him two jobs -- processing money at an armored car company, where he had worked for four years, and with a car service, where he had been for three years. ''I was depressed; I didn't want to go out of the house,'' he said. 
 But a corneal transplant last year improved his sight, enabling him to enroll at Fedcap. 
 Some trainees are people completing treatment for drug addiction. Rosa Richardson, 54, a former home health aide from the Bronx and a mother of four adult children, said she had become addicted to cocaine. Two years ago, Ms. Richardson said, she entered a residential rehabilitation program, and in April she began Fedcap's hotel employment program.
 ''I would like to do the switchboard or take reservations,'' she said. Working the switchboard would pay about $15 an hour to start, she said, double her pay as a home health aide two years ago. And there would be another benefit. ''I like to talk on the phone,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jesus Montero practices how to clean floors, part of his training to become a building cleaner, at Fedcap Rehabilitation Services, a nonprofit organization in Manhattan. (Photograph by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISABLED PERSONS (89%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (89%); DEAFNESS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (75%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (74%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (74%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (67%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (57%)

COMPANY: FEDCAP REHABILITATION SERVICES (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS624310 VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES (56%); SIC8331 JOB TRAINING & VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



152 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: Chance of a Lifetime (Two Lifetimes, Really)

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
WHEN a great ballerina hangs up her toe shoes, proper homage is paid. At New York City Ballet a couple of weeks ago, the curtain rang down on the final performance of Kyra Nichols, the supremely gifted dancer who performed with the company for 33 years. Flowers rained from the wings, piling up at her feet. A parade of cavaliers presented Ms. Nichols with bouquets during her final bows. Most movingly, the audience roared its affection for a good 15 minutes as the curtain rose and fell on Ms. Nichols, surrounded by her colleagues and family, raising her arms in a gesture suggesting a final embrace.
 Theater lovers do not often have a chance to express their esteem and gratitude to actors arriving at the end of similarly rewarding careers on the stage. Dancers' professional lives usually conclude at a fixed point, as the physical demands of performing become too much for a changing body to endure. Actors, if they are lucky, work into old age, their technique remaining as sharp as ever, their powers enriched by years of experience. They do not necessarily retire; they just stop getting hired. 
 And yet returning to see the Terrence McNally play ''Deuce'' on Broadway shortly after watching Ms. Nichols basking in the affection of an audience grateful to have a chance to honor her work, I couldn't help wishing that a similar demonstration might greet Angela Lansbury and Marian Seldes, the two veteran actresses starring in the play, when they give their last performances in this comedy about the reunion of former professional tennis partners. They are receiving nightly ovations from contented audiences, but I'd like to add my own bouquet or two, if only in the form of ink on newsprint.
 Obviously I don't mean to encourage either of them to swan off into retirement. On the contrary, their engaging performances in Mr. McNally's play are of such a high caliber that I hope they will both continue to work onstage for as long as they like. At an elegantly spry 78 Ms. Seldes remains one of the hardest-working -- and most regularly employed -- actors in the New York theater. (In my view if you have not seen Marian Seldes on a New York stage, you are not a true New Yorker.) And I hope that the excitement generated by Ms. Lansbury's return to Broadway, at the age of 81 and after an absence of more than 20 years, will whet her appetite for an encore.
 But why not take a moment to acknowledge the distinctive satisfactions of the lively acting match being played nightly at the Music Box Theater? Audiences and critics alike often take for granted the skill and stamina required to give eight stage performances a week at any age, let alone at a time when many of the contemporaries of the actors in question are idling on golf courses, lining up at the buffet on cruises or sitting comfortably on the other side of the footlights at a matinee. 
 Ms. Seldes and Ms. Lansbury have both demonstrated such devotion to their craft in their long, productive careers that it seems fitting to note, on the unique occasion of their pairing on a Broadway stage, the fine mettle (and fine fettle) of their talents.
 Their chores here may appear relatively light; ''Deuce'' ain't no ''Long Day's Journey Into Night.'' But perhaps that's all the more reason to admire their achievement, for under the direction of Michael Blakemore -- another veteran of decades of acting and directing in the theater -- they are transforming a workaday (and at times rather tacky) play into a warmly pleasurable, even memorable theatergoing experience.
 The first line of ''Deuce'' -- ''Look at them,'' spoken by a fan -- plainly invites us to consider the actresses alongside the characters they portray. And as it progresses, Mr. McNally's comedy, set courtside at a professional tournament, offers a sort of dual demonstration of stage technique. This is in no small part because the material itself is so transparent and dramatically vague that you sometimes feel you are not watching a play at all, but simply a master class in acting given by two unassuming, proficient pros.
 At times the pleasure of seeing ''Deuce'' is closer to the suspenseful tension of watching a hard-fought sports match than the more demanding experience of absorbing a real drama. Will Ms. Lansbury be able to put across the Viagra joke without causing us to wince? She will. Good show, Angela. Watch breathlessly as Ms. Seldes dresses up a trite line with an elegant flourish of the hand. Brava, Marian. Well played. 
 ''Deuce'' may not be the equivalent of a Grand Slam final in tennis, but it makes for an infinitely entertaining exhibition match.
 ''Even as a team, we were totally different players,'' Ms. Lansbury's character, Leona Mullen, remarks at one point to her former partner, Ms. Seldes's Midge Barker. The same is true to some degree of the actresses themselves. Their complementary acting styles blend like coffee and cream here. Although they both spend virtually all of the play seated in chairs, ostensibly watching a big tennis match, Ms. Lansbury and Ms. Seldes inhabit their perches in ways that both distinguish their characters and hint at the differing ways in which they approach their craft. 
 Ms. Seldes, who studied in her youth at the School of American Ballet, drapes herself across her chair like an elegant, exotic bird. Every tapered finger is involved in a performance by this slender, long-limbed actress, who has spent virtually her entire career on the stage. Following the thwak-thwop of the tennis match, Ms. Seldes's piercing dark eyes, under those magnificently theatrical brows, seem to be willing the ball back and forth by telekinesis. She creates a comic drama of observation.
 But it is in her supple savor of language that Ms. Seldes most shines. (She is an exemplar in the eloquent poetics of Edward Albee.) Her character, a Park Avenue-bred player who walked away from tennis into an unsatisfying marriage, is a woman who prides herself on the graciousness of her speech and decorum, and Ms. Seldes uses her marvelous diction to accentuate her character's prized gentility. The laughs come when Midge is provoked into a profanity or a morsel of malice; Ms. Seldes's refined vocal coloring adds a rich comic gloss to vulgarities. 
 Ms. Lansbury has spent much of her professional life before television and film cameras. Her defining stage performances did not come until relatively late in her career, when she was born anew as a reigning musical comedy star beginning in the 1960s, winning a remarkable four Tony Awards for her performances in ''Mame,'' ''Dear World,'' a revival of ''Gypsy'' and ''Sweeney Todd.''
 Mostly sitting still in ''Deuce,'' Ms. Lansbury draws profitably on her experience in the economy of film and television acting. Leona is the more earthbound, pragmatic and ambitious of the two partners, and Ms. Lansbury keeps both feet planted firmly before her for much of the duration of ''Deuce,'' keeping her gestures confined and casual even as Leona talks tough and even cruel.
 Leona is a more richly shaded character than Midge, which allows Ms. Lansbury scope for emotional exploration that Ms. Seldes does not have. The attitudes Leona strikes in the course of the play are not wholly consistent, I'm afraid. But Ms. Lansbury brings such inward intensity to Leona's moments of anguished reflection that a deeply felt portrait of woman haunted by missed chances and unexpressed emotions emerges despite the contradictions.
 No moment in the play is more arresting than the monologue in which Leona speaks of the indignity of old age. ''We become invisible as we grow older,'' she laments. The quiet plea in her voice rises to a note of true despair as she expands on the thought, recalling the urge to cry out ''Look at me!'' when faced with the dismissive glance of a younger woman. As performed with precise focus and powerful feeling by Ms. Lansbury, the moment gleams with painful truth. 
 The observation, among the play's sharpest insights, resonates on more than one level. Significant opportunities for actors -- even stars -- become more limited as they age, and the trend is likely to continue as our culture becomes even more narrowly youth obsessed. It would be comforting to assume that Ms. Lansbury and Ms. Seldes will be back onstage again soon, but it is hardly a foregone conclusion. So, unsatisfying though ''Deuce'' may be as a work of theater, I'm mighty grateful for it.
 The most irksome device in the play is the inclusion of a fan character who wanders onstage at regular intervals to offer background information and dewy-eyed encomiums to the players' past glory. But it is hard not to fall for the double meanings in his words. 
 Toward the end of the play he says to Midge and Leona: ''This is a great game. People like you made it better.'' Although it can partake of play, acting is more than a game. It is a craft, a profession, and at its best an art. 
 In their different ways Ms. Lansbury and Ms. Seldes have served it in its many facets with honor and dedication. They are displaying that dedication on Broadway for another month and change, as ''Deuce'' plays until Aug. 18. 
 Look at them!

GRAPHIC: Photos: Marian Seldes, near right, and Angela Lansbury in Terrence McNally's ''Deuce''
Ms. Lansbury, top, in ''Mame''
Ms. Seldes in Edward Albee's ''Play About the Baby.'' (Photograpgs by Above and bottom left, Sara Krulwich/The New York Times
 top left, Bill Ray/Time Life Pictures, Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCERS (91%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); BALLET (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); DANCE (90%); THEATER (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); TENNIS (73%); SPORTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



153 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: The Roar (and the Risk) Of Emerging Markets

BYLINE: By NEIL O'HARA

 BODY:
FOR several years, emerging-market mutual funds have trounced funds that emphasize developed foreign markets. Domestic stock funds haven't even been close.
 That outperformance has made emerging-market funds very attractive to American investors, some of whom may not be attuned to the risks involved in holding them, particularly now that years of spectacular returns have stretched their valuations to levels much closer to those in developed markets. In addition, emerging markets are infamously volatile, capable of shrinking a portfolio as fast as they can make one grow.
 So how much of a portfolio should an investor put into emerging-market stocks? 
 To start with, most investors still don't have as much overall international exposure as they should, according to Arjun Divecha, portfolio manager of the GMO Emerging Markets fund. Mr. Divecha says an allocation of 20 to 30 percent to foreign markets of all kinds would have served investors well over the past 20 years or so, but he acknowledges that few people will make that big a bet. ''You should have as much as you can tolerate,'' he says. 
 He then applies that maxim to the allocation between emerging and developed markets, too. Although investors often limit their emerging-markets exposure to 5 percent of their total equity portfolios, he says that 12 to 13 percent -- in other words, about half the total international allocation -- has historically delivered the best risk-reward ratio. 
 Why put money into foreign markets in the first place? Despite the increasing correlation of global markets in recent years, international exposure helps to diversify an equity portfolio because foreign markets still don't move in lock step with that of the United States. And emerging-market economies tend to have higher growth rates than developed ones as their populations shift from agriculture to other activities. That growth comes at a price, however, which Mr. Divecha encapsulates as ''some finite probability of catastrophic loss in a short period of time.'' 
 Historical volatility bears him out: he says that since 1993 the annualized standard deviation of returns, a customary measure of volatility, has been 22 to 23 percent in emerging markets, versus 13 to 14 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. It takes an iron constitution to tolerate markets that bounce around nearly twice as much as the familiar domestic counterpart.
 There's another important reason for investing abroad. In an increasingly globalized world, says Michael J. Hogan, executive vice president, chief investment officer and head of equity investments at Delaware Investments, it's high time that people shed their home-country bias in stocks, a preference that investors exhibit throughout the world.
 He favors an asset allocation based on the market capitalization of global equity markets: 45 percent domestic, 45 percent developed international markets and 10 percent emerging markets. For investors who can't stomach such a big allocation abroad, he recommends that they divide whatever international exposure they have between developed and emerging markets in proportion to those markets' total capitalizations. That works out to about 78 percent in developed markets and 22 percent in emerging ones. 
 Mr. Hogan says integration of the global economy is making a company's country of origin less important. For example, an investor in the United States who is considering an investment in Ford Motor or General Motors can no longer look at them in isolation. ''The competitors are not just domestic anymore,'' Mr. Hogan said. ''You had better have a good idea about what is going on at Honda and Toyota.'' It's the same story in most other industries, too.
 Although Mr. Hogan acknowledges the risks often found in emerging-market economies -- poorly defined property and legal rights; underdeveloped financial markets and banking regulation; and, in some cases, greater corruption -- he says that markets do a good job of discounting for those risks in stock prices. And emerging markets can add spice to an investment portfolio.
 ''It's like pepper,'' Mr. Hogan said. ''I would never eat it on its own, but pepper in the right dose in a spaghetti sauce tastes great.''
 To James Donald, a managing director at Lazard Asset Management and portfolio manager of the Lazard Global Total Return and Income fund, emerging markets have lost some of their zest, relatively speaking, compared with five or six years ago. Back then, long-term and reasonably aggressive investors could justify having 35 to 40 percent of their international exposure in emerging markets, but today he suggests a range of 10 to 30 percent, depending on one's time horizon and tolerance for volatility. 
 ''The rates of return on the emerging markets are probably going to continue to be higher than on developed markets,'' Mr. Donald said, ''but they are not going to have as big an advantage as in the past.'' 
 Emerging markets can offer more than just higher growth and geographic diversification. Investors can gain more exposure to commodities than they do in developed markets. And emerging markets also offer much exposure to technology, through companies based in places like South Korea, Taiwan, India and even Israel.
 Lazard doesn't aim for specific exposures to individual countries because it uses a bottom-up approach to stock-picking, looking for the best combination of valuation and profitability. The approach leaves Mr. Donald's mutual fund portfolio with weightings in Brazil, Indonesia, Egypt, Israel, Turkey, South Africa and India, that are above those of the MSCI emerging-markets index.
 In addition to the obvious political risks -- now exemplified by nationalization under the populist left-wing government in Bolivia, the constitutional crisis over official secularism in Turkey and the recent military coup in Thailand -- Mr. Donald said he was concerned that a long-simmering dispute between rich and poor nations over trade barriers could boil over if the Doha round of trade talks, initiated by the World Trade Organization five years ago, finally fails. 
 Poor countries, he said, ''feel that their agricultural industries are not being given a chance to thrive because of the policies of the rich countries.'' Emerging markets that depend on export-led growth have the most to lose from restraints on world trade.
 Although George Evans, senior vice president and director of international equities at OppenheimerFunds, remains a firm believer in the long-term growth of emerging markets, he also worries that valuations have become stretched, especially in China. 
 ''In the first quarter of 2003, emerging markets were on low valuations of somewhat depressed earnings,'' he said. ''They are now up a lot on higher earnings. We are probably in the seventh inning of an emerging-markets cycle.'' 
 As portfolio manager of the Oppenheimer International Growth fund, Mr. Evans has pared his emerging-markets exposure to a relatively low 9.6 percent, concentrated in India, Brazil, South Korea and Mexico, where he says he still finds high-quality companies at reasonable prices. 
 And Mr. Evans has additional indirect exposure to the emerging markets through natural resource companies like Rio Tinto, the mining giant. He favors plays on luxury goods, too, including LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, Richemont and Porsche, which, while based in developed markets, benefit from purchases by the newly rich in emerging markets. In the developed markets, he sees better value among large-capitalization stocks than in small- or midcap stocks. And after several years when value stocks have delivered superior returns, he thinks that growth stocks are cheap, too. 
 ''The premium that one has to pay for growth stocks over value stocks is lower than it has been for a long time,'' Mr. Evans said. ''That's where we see an opportunity right now.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Madagascar, a boy herds cattle past a Rio Tinto mine site. Rio Tinto attracts investors interested in natural resources and emerging markets. (Photograph by Ed Harris/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (87%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); STATISTICAL METHOD (68%)

COMPANY: DELAWARE MANAGEMENT HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MADAGASCAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



154 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Pull Is Obvious, but So Are Reasons to Pause

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
AMERICAN investors are renowned for entering foreign stock markets only after big gains have been achieved and the next major move is down. It happened in Japan in the late 1980's and a few years later in Latin America and mainland Asia.
 Is it happening again? Mutual fund investment patterns show an unprecedented interest in foreign shares.
 After setting a record in 2006, net investment in international funds has continued at a blistering pace, totaling $65.3 billion this year through May, according to Morningstar. That is twice as much as investors put into domestic stock funds, which have nearly three times as much in assets.
 Europe has been an especially popular destination. Net new investment through May swelled the assets of funds specializing in the region by 7.7 percent, compared with 4.4 percent for all international funds. 
 The appeal of European stocks is clear. They have returned roughly twice as much as American stocks in the last three years.
 There are compelling reasons for the superior performance, including stronger recent economic growth and renewed efforts by business and political leaders to enhance productivity. Yet some fund managers, with an eye on capital flows and an awareness of history, express unease at the surge in popularity, although they do not expect the region to suffer the same fate as other markets that were admired too well from afar.
 ''That hindsight investing, chasing international equities, is something we've been looking at,'' said Sean M. Bogda, a manager of European stock portfolios at Brandywine Global Investment Management. ''It's not just Europe; it's emerging markets, too. No one wanted anything to do with emerging markets in the late '90s and now people are plowing money into them. We're seeing a little of that happening with international funds in general.''
 Max King, a strategist at Investec Asset Management, cites the lopsided investment pattern as a reason to anticipate underperformance in Europe -- for a while.
 ''Retail fund flows are a fairly reliable contrary indicator, as retail investors tend to use hindsight rather than foresight in market timing,'' Mr. King said in a report to the firm's investors. He pointed to ''the disinterest of U.S. investors in the domestic market'' as well as evidence that ''private investors in other countries are cautious about investing anywhere,'' as reasons to favor American over European equities.
 But any relative strength is likely to be short-lived, he said, because European markets trade at lower multiples of earnings, and the region's economies are likely to continue to show more robust growth.
 He noted, too, that European businesses are on a steeper learning curve. They continue to put into effect cost-cutting measures and other steps aimed at improving returns that many American companies have already completed.
 The fact that European stocks are still cheaper leads Harry W. Hartford, president of Causeway Capital Management, to discount the impact of fund flows, although he acknowledges that the valuation gap has narrowed considerably after three years of outperformance.
 ''I wouldn't subscribe to the view that the end is nigh for European stocks,'' Mr. Hartford said. ''It doesn't feel like Japan in 1989, absolutely not.''
 European markets have eclipsed the highs set in 2000, he noted, ''but this is a more broad-based appreciation and reflects the cyclical upswing we have seen and the structural improvement brought to bear by European companies.''
 With economic and corporate conditions so auspicious in Europe, he said, ''we are finding a broad array of companies in a broad range of industries that have what we would consider reasonably attractive valuations.''
 Those industries include a couple renowned for their stable earnings growth: telecommunications services and pharmaceuticals.
 He countsGlaxoSmithKline in Britain, Sanofi Aventis of France and Novartisof Switzerland among his favorite drug makers.
 As for telecoms, which he called ''very cash generative businesses, with a capacity to return cash to investors through buybacks,'' Mr. Hartford likes Vodafone of Britain; Telenor, a leader in Scandinavia; the Spanish company Telefonica; and France Telecom.
 Another selection isEricsson, the Swedish maker of cellphones and other telecommunications equipment, which suffered steep losses and declines in sales after the tech crash in 2000.
 Since then, Mr. Hartford said, the industry has consolidated through mergers, such as the one between Lucent Technologies and the French company Alcatel, improving conditions for Ericsson. He noted that the company has net cash on its balance sheet, something that would have seemed barely imaginable when it was struggling a few years ago.
 Edward Collins, a fund manager for New Star Asset Management who specializes in British stocks, is far more concerned about the actions of local central bankers than those of foreign investors. Steady interest rate increases by the Bank of England make this a tough environment for providers of items whose purchases can be put off, like cars, electronic equipment and travel, he said.
 The backdrop is more favorable for industries like aerospace and military contracting, where Mr. Collins's selections include BAE Systems, which was British Aerospace in an earlier life, and the jet engine maker Rolls-Royce. 
 He also likes oil service companies like the Abbot Group, Hunting and Sondex.
 Thomas A. Mengel, manager of the Ivy International Value fund, is especially enthusiastic about European shares. He recently returned from a conference of chief executives in Paris and was heartened by their assessment of business and economic conditions.
 ''We're still very positive on the region in general,'' Mr. Mengel said. ''It's a great story -- efficiency gains from restructuring coupled with global growth.''
 Spending on manufacturing and other business equipment is strong. So is export growth, which he noted is very broadly based.
 ''It's not just to China,'' he said. ''European companies have done a very good job spreading them around. India and Eastern Europe are big areas of focus.''
 Mr. Mengel finds conditions particularly favorable in Germany. ''There's a great mix of exports and restructuring, earnings are growing nicely, and the market's not that expensive,'' he said.
 His holdings there include Siemens, the industrial conglomerate; Bayer, the chemical producer; and Vossloh, which is building high-speed railways in China.
 OTHER stocks that Mr. Mengel highlighted include the Swiss cement maker Holcim; the Swedish retailer Hennes & Mauritz; the Swiss food giant Nestle; and Reckitt Benckiser, a British supplier of household goods.
 Mr. Bogda, at Brandywine, is far more cautious about the region. Still, he had no trouble identifying ''really well-run businesses trading at decent valuations.''
 One example is Royal Bank of Scotland, which is digesting an extensive series of acquisitions made over the last decade. At the end of the second quarter, its stock had a dividend yield above 5 percent and traded at 10 times earnings.
 Mr. Bogda finds ''good long-term value'' in Glaxo, one of the companies mentioned by Mr. Hartford. Its shares have been hit hard because of safety concerns about its diabetes drug Avandia.
 ''We just don't think it's that bad,'' he said of the financial risk to Glaxo. The company, he said, has ''a lot of cash on its balance sheet, a good pipeline of new drugs'' and a price-to-earnings multiple of 13. 
 Mr. Bogda also likes phone companies, especially Deutsche Telekom. Competition in the industry is intense, he noted, but the low valuation more than reflects that.
 Whether valuations of European and other foreign stocks in general are still reasonable after the wave of buying by Americans is less clear.
 ''We have a situation where U.S. investors have gotten much more fully invested,'' Mr. Bogda said. ''Are we going to see the same returns going forward as we have for the last five years? I'm highly skeptical that we will.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A submarine from the British company BAE Systems. BAE's stock is a favorite among some experts of aerospace and military contracting. (Photograph by Paul Ellis/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%)

COMPANY: BRANDYWINE GLOBAL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LLC (54%); INVESTEC LTD (53%)

TICKER: INL (JSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



155 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Seemed Like a Good Idea at the Time

BYLINE: By Max Boot. 
Max Boot is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and the author of ''War Made New: Weapons, Warriors, and the Making of the Modern World.''

 BODY:
Fateful Choices
 Ten Decisions That Changed 
 the World, 1940-1941.
 By Ian Kershaw.
 Illustrated. 624 pp. The Penguin Press. $35.
Unpredictability is the bane of economists, meteorologists, political pundits and sportswriters. They are always in danger of having their discredited forays into futurology flung back in their faces. Yet when reading a historical work it is all too easy to fall into the trap of thinking that events could have taken only one path -- that what happened must have happened. Writing with the advantage of hindsight, historians tend to depict an inexorable march of events leading up to the present.
 To challenge this teleological tendency, ''counterfactual'' history has become fashionable lately, with historians speculating on paths not taken, in books with titles beginning ''What If?'' Ian Kershaw doesn't go quite that far in ''Fateful Choices,'' but he does attempt to show how one of the most consequential events of the 20th century -- World War II -- took shape, and why it might have turned out differently. 
 A professor at the University of Sheffield in England and the author of an acclaimed two-volume biography of Hitler, Kershaw focuses on 10 important decisions by Axis and Allied policy makers in the early years of the war. His contention is that the ''fateful choices made by the leaders of the world's major powers within a mere 19 months, between May 1940 and December 1941,'' largely determined the course of future events -- not only the outcome of World War II but also the shape of the postwar world.
 These are the turning points he chooses: 
 1) The decision by the British War Cabinet in late May 1940, led by the new prime minister, Winston Churchill, to fight on after the fall of France and not to pursue, as some suggested, a negotiated settlement with Nazi Germany. 
 2) Hitler's decision in July 1940 to attack the Soviet Union the following year, ensnaring Germany in a war it could not win. 3) Tokyo's decision in September 1940 to join the Tripartite Pact with Italy and Germany and to occupy French Indochina. This led to an American embargo on the export of iron and scrap metal and brought conflict with the United States one step closer. 4) Benito Mussolini's decision in October 1940 to focus the bulk of his war effort not on North Africa, where the British were vulnerable, but on the invasion of Greece, which turned into a debacle that tied down German troops and eventually led to his own downfall. 5) The decision by Franklin Roosevelt in August 1940 to send 50 old American destroyers to Britain, followed by Congress's approval of the Lend-Lease deal in March 1941, symbolically committing the United States to the anti-Axis cause by (as Roosevelt put it) all ''methods short of war.'' 
 6) Stalin's failure in the spring of 1941 to heed numerous intelligence reports warning of an impending German invasion -- a mistake that cost the Soviet Union dearly when Germany's Operation Barbarossa began on June 22. 7) Roosevelt's initiatives in July-August 1941 to embargo oil shipments to Japan, extend conscription, draw up the Atlantic Charter of war aims with Churchill and provide armed escorts to merchant shipping in the western Atlantic -- all steps that drew America into an ''undeclared war.'' 8) The decision reached by the Japanese cabinet and emperor between September and November of 1941 to embark on the southern strategy of grabbing European colonies in the Pacific, beginning with a pre-emptive strike on the United States Navy. 9) Hitler's decision, in the days following Pearl Harbor, to declare war on the United States, thus sparing Roosevelt the necessity of persuading his countrymen to fight the Nazis as well as the Japanese. 10) Hitler's decision in the summer and fall of 1941 to begin the mass extermination of European Jewry, making the Holocaust a major feature of the conflict. 
 Kershaw's focus on these areas is defensible but not entirely convincing. Notably downplayed are the major moves that launched World War II in the first place: the Japanese invasion of Manchuria in 1931 and of the rest of China in 1937, and the German invasion of Poland in 1939 and of Norway, Denmark, France, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands in 1940. Kershaw might have chosen other turning points as well -- for example, the Nazi repudiation of the Versailles Treaty in 1935, which could have led to Anglo-French military action but didn't. And there were monumental judgment calls later on that Kershaw fails to examine, like Roosevelt's decision to invade North Africa in 1942, forgoing a second front in Europe until 1944. It's not clear why Kershaw slights such important events except that they don't fit into his questionable conceit that the key decisions of the war were made in 1940-41.
 Yet he provides ample room in his own account to doubt how pivotal some of the decisions he does examine actually were. After devoting many pages to Hitler's declaration of war on the United States on Dec. 11, 1941, he concludes that, even without it, ''an American move to full-scale, all-out conflict at some point in the coming months, if not straightaway, would have been well-nigh unavoidable.'' But if, as he writes, ''Germany and the United States would soon have been at war,'' declaration or no declaration, then why does the genesis of the declaration deserve a chapter of its own?
 But if his choice of subjects is open to debate (not necessarily a bad thing in a book that presumably seeks to provoke discussion), Kershaw's treatment of the individual decisions is unquestionably superb. Although he does go on a bit long in some cases, needlessly repeating himself (the phrase ''as we have already noted'' makes far too many appearances), he offers patient readers a nuanced, sophisticated understanding of how the world looked through the eyes of disparate leaders. 
 Kershaw expertly explicates the inexplicable -- for instance, Hitler's mad gamble to invade the Soviet Union and Stalin's equally demented refusal to prepare for the onslaught. He traces the origins of the German plan to a combination of Hitler's ideological obsessions -- gaining Lebensraum to his east while smiting the Bolshevik-Jewish conspiracy that supposedly ran the Kremlin -- and his reckless underestimation of Soviet military capabilities. ''A campaign against Russia would be child's play,'' the FA1/4hrer confidently declared. 
 That his prediction seemed to come true at first, with the Wehrmacht advancing to the gates of Moscow and Leningrad, was due to the foibles of his adversary. Stalin initiated a self-defeating purge of his officer corps in 1937-38, and then refused to mobilize in 1941, even when his secret agents obtained a preview of the German war plan. How to explain a paranoid like Stalin seemingly trusting in Hitler's assurances of friendship? Kershaw argues that Stalin knew a showdown with Hitler was coming but didn't want to risk any hostile steps that might precipitate a German invasion before the end of 1942, when Soviet rearmament would be completed. 
 ''Fateful Choices'' is not quite as stimulating or engrossing as the best analytical studies of World War II, my personal favorites being Richard Overy's ''Why the Allies Won'' (1996) and Eric Larrabee's ''Commander in Chief: Franklin Delano Roosevelt, His Lieutenants, and Their War'' (1987). But Kershaw does an excellent job of synthesizing a great deal of scholarship and thereby helping to further our understanding of this epic struggle -- as well as of the role of contingency in the making of history. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photograph by Richard Turtletaub) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); WRITERS (75%); METEOROLOGY (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (66%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (90%); ENGLAND (79%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



156 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: The Talented Tenth

BYLINE: By Christopher Benfey. 
Christopher Benfey is Mellon professor of English at Mount Holyoke and writes about art for Slate.

 BODY:
NEW ENGLAND WHITE
 By Stephen L. Carter.
 556 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $26.95.
Herman Melville praised Hawthorne's gothic New England tales, with their gloomy ministers and doom-ridden families, for what he called their ''power of blackness,'' but in ''Moby-Dick'' he showed that whiteness could be just as terrifying. In the great 42nd chapter, Melville enumerates all the reasons why whiteness -- in whales or ghosts or snow-covered landscapes (''a colorless, all-color of atheism from which we shrink'') -- reveals a bitter existential truth: ''Though in many of its aspects this visible world seems formed in love, the invisible spheres were formed in fright.'' 
 The whiteness that appalls in Stephen L. Carter's stylishly written new novel, ''New England White,'' is only partly the snow, which sifts through the ''Gothic sprawl'' of the university campus in ''grimy, dilapidated'' Elm Harbor in the late fall of 2003. In a coy author's note we are assured that Elm Harbor is ''not a thinly disguised New Haven,'' so the unnamed university is presumably not a thinly disguised Yale, where Carter -- author of a previous best-selling thriller, ''The Emperor of Ocean Park,'' as well as highly regarded books on the pitfalls of affirmative action and the proper place of religion in public life -- has taught in the law school since 1982. 
 For Lemaster Carlyle, president of the university, the ''heart of whiteness'' is the creepy bedroom community of Tyler's Landing, population 3,000, of whom five families, including the Carlyles, happen to be black. In the Landing, as it is called, Lemaster and his wife, Julia, a deputy dean of the divinity school, live in an ostentatious house with their two daughters, Vanessa (''16 going on 50'') and Jeannie, and ''a smelly feline mutt'' named Rainbow Coalition. Lemaster's college roommate, now president of the United States (''the big president'') and up for re-election, sometimes calls to chat. To their envious neighbors on Hunter's Meadow Road, ''where the houses stood continents apart,'' the Carlyles seem to have it all. But those ''invisible spheres'' Melville mentioned are about to crack the veneer of their seemingly perfect lives.
 Despite its up-to-date Architectural Digest charms, the Carlyles' mansion, Hunter's Heights, bears more than a passing resemblance to Wuthering Heights. For one thing, there's a Heathcliff lurking in Julia's life. Her ''sinfully attractive'' ex-lover, Kellen Zant, co-inventor of an important economic theory and much in demand in the private sector, is a professor at Elm Harbor. While the West Indian immigrant Lemaster Carlyle is all duty and tradition, an Anglican with close ties to the conservative Oval Office, Kellen Zant, fatherless son of a Southern drug addict, is an ''indulgent, amoral'' professor of desire. (President Carlyle tries to bring his rival down a notch by suggesting, as another college president allegedly advised Cornel West, that he ''should spend less of his energy on his private clients and more on scholarship.'')
 When Zant's corpse turns up on a back road, half-buried in the snow with two bullets in its head, at precisely the place where Carlyle, driving Julia home from an alumni fund-raising party, happens to lose control of his black Cadillac Escalade, the Carlyles have a problem. ''It was almost as though, even on the terrible morning after she discovered the body of Kellen Zant, Julia Carlyle knew that the answer to the mystery that would soon coil around her wounded family lay in the darker nation's shadowed past.''
 The investigation of what exactly happened to Zant, carried out formally by Bruce Vallely, the black ''director of campus safety'' and a former Special Forces op, and informally by Julia, turns out to be linked to what happened, years earlier, to a local white girl with a passion for Emily Dickinson. Julia's daughter Vanessa is obsessed with Gina Joule's fate, and not just because ''Gina was 17, like Vanessa, a resident of the Landing, also like Vanessa -- and her father, like Vanessa's, taught at the university.''
 Thirty years earlier, Gina's drowned body, with evidence of foul play, was discovered at the town beach. A young black man in a stolen car, blamed for the crime, was conveniently shot by the police before he could defend himself. Before his own murder, Zant seems to have come across evidence that some college roommates from 1973, now occupying very high places, just might know what really happened to Gina, and might pay a good deal of money to keep those details secret. 
 That's the plot in a nutshell, and Carter keeps us guessing about its progress right up to the intricately deployed end. But in the 500-plus pages of ''New England White,'' he's up to more than suspense and the gothic apparatus -- including coded anagrams and cracked mirrors -- he wields with considerable aplomb. For one thing, he has spiked his thriller with wryly affectionate campus satire, somewhat in the vein of Randall Jarrell's ''Pictures From an Institution.'' President Carlyle is threatened with a no-confidence vote for seeking to merge the gender studies and women's studies programs. And Carter has fun with the ambiguous function of ''a divinity school that only half believed in God.''
 The plot of ''New England White'' is also sufficiently expansive to allow room for some serious thinking about the progress of ''the darker nation'' at a time when neither political party has much time for the intractable challenges of race and poverty, and when ''as far as white America knew, nobody black ever had money or education before, say, affirmative action.'' Carter's affection for traditional African-American social and religious institutions is evident at every turn. He invents an elite and shadowy secret fraternity named the Empyreals (a black Skull and Bones), which preserves a tough and powerful identity against the exclusive white clubs President Carlyle calls the ''Caucasian Squawk Circle.'' 
 Apart from its more earthshaking revelations, ''New England White'' ends with a deft local touch: Julia Carlyle writes to her mother about her own upbringing amid the white snow and white people of New Hampshire. ''To be a great people is also to be an old people,'' she has come to realize, and an old people has to know how to keep secrets. ''I think you moved us to Hanover for the winters,'' Julia concludes. ''Time covers truth like snow.'' 
 In ''New England White,'' Stephen Carter casts a cold eye on some of the secrets -- big historical ones and others more intimate -- that have contributed to the greatness of the ''darker nation.'' As another master of New England gothic, Robert Frost, wrote in his own little fantasy of insidious whiteness: ''What but design of darkness to appall? -- / If design govern in a thing so small.'' 

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (Drawing by Joel Holland) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (87%); MARINE MAMMALS (76%); RELIGION (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); STUDENT HOUSING (72%); BESTSELLERS (68%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); CATS (63%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (52%); CHURCH & STATE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%) NORTHEAST USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



157 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: Gavel to Gavel (To Gavel to Gavel) Coverage

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
NOBODY really listens to petty grievances, and that is one of the greater injustices of life. 
 Tragedy and major upheavals command attention. Everyone wants to console the widow or abandoned child; anyone will give a hearing to a betrayed wife or a neighbor reeling from financial ruin. It's the smaller, more commonplace injuries -- the roommate who vanishes without paying the rent, the ex-wife who won't return the kids on time, the grandson who runs off with the stereo -- that grate in isolation. 
 Even close friends nod and tune out or, worse, turn the subject to their own lukewarm discontents. The magazine world, which caters to every imaginable niche with publications like Parking Today and Wild Fibers Magazine, has yet to issue a Kvetch Quarterly. The aggrieved simmer in solitude, deprived of redress or sympathy.
 Unheeded gripes are what keep therapists in business, inflame bloggers and clog the dockets of small claims court. And they are one reason that both ''Judge Judy,'' the top-rated court show now celebrating its 11th year on the air, and ''The People's Court,'' which first surfaced in 1981, are so enduring. 
 They help explain why CBS Television Distribution, the syndicator of both ''Judge Judy'' and ''Judge Joe Brown,'' is contemplating yet another courtroom show with Larry Seidlin, the judge who weepily adjudicated the dispute over Anna Nicole Smith's remains. 
 In September Sony Pictures TV, home to ''Judge Hatchett'' and ''Judge Maria Lopez,'' plans to unveil ''Judge David Young,'' who will be the first openly gay arbiter in the genre -- a new niche for an old format. There are at least as many of these so-called syndi-court judges as there are Supreme Court justices, and they are better known than their brethren in Washington. The ratings for ''Judge Judy'' have slipped, but she is the chief justice of her field and the star of one of the Top 10 syndicated shows, with about 6.4 million viewers, just behind ''Dr. Phil,'' who has 6.6 million. (Oprah Winfrey is still queen with 8.3 million.)
 The judges are real but retired. And petitioners are recruited with television ads, as well as in small claims court where producers hunt down cases suited to the cameras. The chosen sign a waiver agreeing that the television arbitration is final and cannot be pursued elsewhere, though in some cases rulings have been overturned. The awards do not exceed $5,000, the small claims limit in most states, but money is not the real object. It's campy, hammed up summary justice, but it feeds the viewers' vicarious craving for told-you-so retribution
 ''She spent $600 of my money on her van,'' a plaintiff named Tova angrily said in a recent case. ''A van that broke down because God don't like ugly.'' 
 Long before ''Big Brother'' and ''The Real World,'' ''The People's Court'' and ''Judge Judy'' were proto-reality shows, and they certainly have helped elbow out daytime soap operas; ''Another World'' and ''Search for Tomorrow'' were canceled years ago, while the ratings of even the most popular, long-running soaps keep eroding. Grand and illicit passions, punctuated by organ music and close-ups of steamy clinches, no longer provide the same thrill for viewers, perhaps because in today's no-fault culture sex, adultery and betrayal are no longer shameful. Daytime talk shows reward participants who will submit to paternity tests or confess to incest, alcoholism, gluttony and the like. 
 But the smaller wounds -- the squabbles over insurance payments, cellphone bills or baby-sitting duties -- contain their own kind of intricate melodrama that doesn't register on ''General Hospital'' or ''Dr. Phil'' or ''Maury'' but rings a bell with millions of viewers. 
 Marital estrangement is measured not in agony-and-ecstasy emotions, but in prosaic daily deprivations. A husband on ''Divorce Court'' complains that his wife, once so adoring she gave him daily back rubs and clipped his toenails, now avoids him by locking herself in the bathroom and taking three-hour baths. For some viewers it's comic relief; for others it's a checklist in their personal ''can this marriage be saved?'' calculation.
 All courtroom shows look alike -- bench, brawny bailiff and flag -- but there are worlds of difference in tone and the kind of speedy resolution they provide. Cristina Perez, who presides over ''Cristina's Court'' with calm, earnest poise, is a therapist with a gavel. (''She takes the law into her own heart,'' a narrator says at the beginning of each episode.)
 ''I need to rewind a little bit to understand the anger that you have,'' she told Terille, a Texas cleaning woman who sued her former boyfriend Donnie for ruining her beloved truck by putting bootleg brake fluid into it. 
 Donnie contended that it was an accident, but Judge Cristina sided with Terille, awarding her $2,400. After each decision the camera goes into chambers so Judge Christina can explain her ruling. ''It wasn't just a truck to her, this is the trophy,'' she said. ''Everything she earned she did herself.'' When Donnie carelessly poured bad brake fluid into her truck, she added, ''it was like pouring acid on her self-esteem.''
 Compassion, however, is not necessarily a selling point. ''Cristina's Court'' is one of the lower-rated shows of its kind. The harsher the judge, the bigger the payoff; the most highly rated run a Simon Cowell-style courtroom.
 Judith Sheindlin, the star of ''Judge Judy,'' is famous for a more heartless approach. Most shows encourage viewers to identify with the plaintiffs, but sometimes people just want to tell others to snap out of it. Judge Judy channels everyone's inner scold. She is a babushka in black robes who can speak her mind -- loudly -- without fear of interruption. 
 ''Listen to me: If it doesn't make sense, it ain't true,'' she hollered at a woman who spent money on her boyfriend then claimed it was a loan after he dumped her and went back to his wife. She has old-fashioned values (''Women shouldn't spend money on a guy'') and no patience for long explanations. ''Who cares about your sob story?'' she said, silencing a defendant.
 Most other television judges' temperaments fall somewhere in between Judge Judy and Judge Cristina. Judge Brown has a chuckling playful side. He once ruled against a woman, an exotic dancer, who keyed the side of a car parked in her boyfriend's driveway because she assumed it belonged to another woman. It turned out it belonged to the boyfriend, who had never told her he bought it. Judge Brown found her guilty of jumping to conclusions.
 ''You do that thing around a brass pole, do what they call lap dances, and that's what you do to earn your living,'' he said waggishly. ''Anytime he sees you on the job -- that's not supposed to give somebody the wrong impression?'' 
 Judge Greg Mathis of ''Judge Mathis'' is street-savvy; Judge Alex E. Ferrer of ''Judge Alex'' is brisk but good-humored; Judge Glenda Hatchett is feisty; ''Divorce Court,'' anchored by Judge Lynn Toler, is spicier than in earlier incarnations. (The first version appeared in 1957.) 
 When ''The People's Court'' was canceled in 1993 after a 12-year run under Judge Joseph A. Wapner, it seemed the allure had dissipated. Then the O. J. Simpson trial and the rise of Court TV quickened an appetite for small-screen justice. The show came back in 1997 with Edward I. Koch, the former New York mayor, presiding; then Judge Jerry Sheindlin, husband of Judge Judy, took over. At the moment the gavel is held by the no-nonsense Judge Marilyn Milian. 
 The disputes in these shows are minor, the facts are pared to sound bites, and even the best-coached defendants are self-conscious and stilted. But raw emotions seep through nonetheless. 
 Recriminations vary in scope and intensity, but the litigants all seem to come from the same social pool: almost all are ambassadors from a nation of have-nots, working class or unemployed, overweight and in poor health, many of them without insurance or connections. Socialites suing their plastic surgeons have better ways to seek amends. It's Michael Moore populism, and the cumulative effect is depressing, a tableau of broken homes, bad luck and desperation snatched from ''Miss Lonelyhearts.'' 
 Some judges occasionally try to counteract stereotypes and insert messages of hope. Judge Hatchett, a former juvenile court judge, specializes in creative sentencing. In 2006 she sent Hakeem, a troubled teenager, to Los Angeles to meet with Isaiah Washington, who at the time was a star of ''Grey's Anatomy.'' Mr. Washington told Hakeem how he overcame his own guns-and-bad-attitude youth. The show, hoping to instill African pride, charted Hakeem's ancestral roots. Hakeem, who thought the DNA swab was a drug test, was relieved and gratefully promised to straighten out. (Mr. Washington was not as fortunate: the session occurred not long before his highly publicized disgrace over a gay slur and didn't count as part of his redemption course.)
 There are limits; the arm of these courts doesn't extend far beyond the family circle. Most disputes are interpersonal: spouses, co-workers, roommates, in-laws, landlords. Yet some of the most needling aggravations of life come from institutions: the insurance adjuster who doesn't return calls, the phone company representative who hangs up midcomplaint. 
 Government agencies and service companies don't risk advertising their shortcomings on television. Luckily, friends and relatives provide endless forms of injury. 
 Court shows adjudicate squabbles, and they provide secondhand satisfaction, at best, but they are the closest thing many people come to public vindication. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Judge David Young, above, will soon join the court-television fray, where Judge Maria Lopez, left, and Judge Greg Mathis, far left, are already at work. (Photograph by Joe Fornabaio/Sony Pictures TV)
(Photograph by Everett Collection)
(Photograph by Sony Pictures TV)(pg. 25) Graphic by John Ritter 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDIA SYNDICATION (89%); SMALL CLAIMS COURTS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (87%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); JUDGES (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); PETITIONS (67%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (66%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (65%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (53%)

PERSON: JUDGE JUDY SHEINDLIN (71%); OPRAH WINFREY (51%); DR PHIL MCGRAW (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



158 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: The Government's Con Ed Bill

BYLINE: By CHARLES PERROW. 
Charles Perrow, an emeritus professor of sociology at Yale, is the author of ''The Next Catastrophe: Reducing Our Vulnerabilities to Natural, Industrial and Terrorist Disasters.''

 BODY:
New Haven
 SHOULD American taxpayers help Con Ed provide New York City's financial district with a safer power supply? The Department of Homeland Security thinks so. It has decided to pay the electric company as much as $25 million to install a high-tech line between two substations in Lower Manhattan that would be more resilient than the current line in the event of a terrorist attack, severe weather or a simple operating error by the electric company.
 Con Ed is already planning an $8 billion upgrade of its facilities in New York State. Without the federal money, the new secure line won't be part of it. 
 But the electric company ought to pay all of the cost of upgrading its corner of the nation's electric grid. And federal tax dollars should be reserved for increasing the reliability of the nation's grid as a whole, not just that part of it that goes between the two substations underneath New York City. This is the only way to avoid blackouts like the one that affected the Northeast in August 2003 or the one that crippled California in August 1996.
 The national grid is now less reliable than it has ever been, thanks to the deregulation of the electric power industry that began 15 years ago. Deregulation has led the industry to consolidate, increasing its profits. But now local failures are more frequent, blackouts are more extensive and the price of electricity has risen more than can be attributed to rising fuel costs.
 The small local utilities that once kept their pieces of the grid up to date are now consolidated into multistate entities, and these giant wholesalers of electricity have little incentive to spend money to upgrade or even maintain the grid. 
 The big wholesalers send electricity ever longer distances in order to capture small differences in local prices. But as electricity travels farther and farther -- from Ohio to Ontario, for example -- efficiency is reduced. More heat is generated on power lines. And when problems occur -- a tree branch falls on a hot, slack line, or computer software in a local office fails -- they can lead to regional blackouts. This is what happened in 2003, when a software failure near Toledo, Ohio, combined with sagging power lines and a simple error by a control room worker to cause a blackout in eight Northeastern and Midwestern states and Ontario.
 The cost of that blackout to the utilities was minuscule; to the public, it was estimated at $4 billion to $10 billion. 
 Profits in the electric power industry are high. But so far, attempts by Congress and the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (the nonprofit agency that monitors the grid) to prod the wholesalers to spend more of their profits on improving the grid, or even spend more on simple maintenance, have failed. Senator Charles Schumer of New York chided the commission that investigated the 2003 blackout for hitting ''the snooze button'' by recommending ''baby steps.'' But even baby steps like replacing mechanical relays with electronic ones are not always being taken. 
 If the Department of Homeland Security is to subsidize this profitable industry at all, it should focus its attention on such things as the vulnerable ''choke point'' (a narrowing of the grid) on the Oregon-California border. In August 1996 a squirrel cut off the power flowing from the Northwestern states to California, causing a 9-state blackout. 
 In contrast, when the 9/11 disaster disrupted the lines under Wall Street, the financial district barely skipped a beat. Cellphones and Internet connections kept businesses running during the short time when power was out. And most companies operating there had learned from the first World Trade Center terrorist attack, in 1993, to back up their critical data. 
 It may be true that the New York City financial district has a hammerlock on our economy, but that does not mean taxpayers in all 50 states should pay to keep its power supply safe. Con Edison should make this upgrade -- and do all the other work needed on its portion of the power grid -- on its own. That will no doubt require adding far more than $25 million to the proposed $8 billion in spending.
 As deregulation of the electric power industry has advanced over the past 15 years, industrial accidents, natural disasters and terrorist threats have all increased as well. It is time that power companies paid their share of costs to prepare for them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); WHOLESALERS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (77%); SOFTWARE DEFECTS (76%); TERRORISM (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (84%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



159 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Bradley Flight to Amsterdam Is First to Europe

BYLINE: By HARLAN J. LEVY

 BODY:
Starting July 1, Bradley International Airport in Windsor Locks began offering nonstop daily round-trip trans-Atlantic flights to Europe, finally countering the ridicule about basing its international status on flights only to Canada and Mexico.
Northwest Airlines now flies a 160-seat Boeing 757 to and from Schiphol Airport in Amsterdam, leaving Bradley at 5:25 p.m. and Schiphol at 1:10 p.m. for the seven- and eight-hour daily flights.
 A recent bout of pilot absenteeism -- to protest lower pay -- that contributed to hundreds of flight cancellations gave officials a scare but had no effect on the Amsterdam flights, Northwest officials said.
 Speaking at the pretakeoff celebration last Sunday at the flight gate, L. Scott Frantz, chairman of the airport's board of directors, referred to the voyage of the Dutch navigator Adriaen Block to Hartford in 1614. 
 ''Four hundred years ago it took five months to get across the ocean,'' he said. ''About the same as going to J.F.K. -- or it seems that way.'' 
 Now the seven-hour trip follows a delay-free drive, compared to frustrating traffic jams plaguing those who go to New York or Boston to reach Europe while paying the same as the Bradley fare.
 Schiphol is centrally located and business-friendly, with a 300-mile radius that encompasses major corporate and tourist destinations and 170 million people in the prime markets of France, Germany, and Britain. Through KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, flights leave Amsterdam for 81 other cities in Europe, the Middle East, India and Africa.
 Business customers predicted that the flights would increase international trade and connections, and Connecticut and Massachusetts tourism officials expect to attract more European visitors. Mr. Frantz estimated the Amsterdam flights could bring the region $60 million in economic activity and as many as 1,200 jobs.
 Charles Peterson of Mansfield, who travels mostly for leisure, called the flight ''fabulous.''
 ''This is going to make people like me go over and over again,'' he said, ''because getting down to J.F.K. or Newark is a nightmare.''
 The flight will also ease the constant travel between the Amsterdam headquarters of ING, a financial services giant, and its large Hartford office, said Kevin Brown, a senior vice president in Hartford. 
 ''ING has just invested $100 million to build a new building in Windsor,'' Mr. Brown said, ''so we've made a commitment prior to this flight to have a significant presence here in Hartford, and this certainly will enhance the decision.''
 First off the Monday flight from Amsterdam was Joseph Crawford, an airline pilot who took just two minutes to go through customs and immigration checkpoints.
 David H. Mayer, a vice president at Kaman Industrial Technologies of Windsor, flew home after attending a convention in Sweden. ''We can now get to any city in Europe relatively easily,'' said Mr. Mayer, who called it an advantage to be able to bring people from Europe into Connecticut more frequently.
 ''It certainly could help build relationships,'' he said.
 New Haven Delays IssuingID Cards to Residents
 New Haven has delayed issuing identification cards to city residents until later this month. The city had planned to begin handing them out on July 3. 
 The card will be available to all of the city's 135,000 residents, including illegal aliens, to improve access to libraries, parks, beaches and other facilities, according to the city's department of community services. 
 Critics of the cards say illegal aliens should not be given a legitimate form of identification by the city. But the objections are not the reason for the postponement.
 A spokeswoman for Mayor John DeStefano Jr. said the cards were not available last week because of a delay by the vendor supplying the hardware, software and printers to make them. 
 The spokeswoman, Jessica A. Mayorga, said a staff had been hired to produce the cards once the equipment arrived. She said the city would open an office on the first floor of City Hall at 165 Church Street to issue the cards, which would probably not be available until July 24.
 ''We'd like to get it up and running earlier, and if we can, we will,'' Ms. Mayorga said.
 The Elm City Resident Card, as it is called, will be the size of a driver's license. It will include the resident's photo, name and address and, for children, emergency contact info.
 Ms. Mayorga said the cards, which will have a hologram to validate their authenticity, would also carry a Parcxmart computer chip on the back that would allow residents to use them as a debit card at some local businesses. She said they would be able to set up accounts at participating stores totaling up to $150. 
 About 50 businesses have agreed to take part so far, she said.
 JEFF HOLTZ 
 Official Orders Halt to SaleOf Defective Chinese Tires
 The state's attorney general, Richard Blumenthal, on Monday ordered 77 retailers in Connecticut who have sold defective tires that were made in China to stop selling them and provide free replacements.
 The tires were made by Hangzhou Zhongce Rubber Company of Hangzhou from 2002 to 2005, and were sold under the brand names Westlake, Telluride, Compass and YKS.
 On June 27, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration ordered the importer of the tires, Foreign Tire Sales of Union, N.J., to recall them. According to Mr. Blumenthal, the tires lack a thin strip of rubber that is needed between the steel belts, making them susceptible to blowouts, especially on vehicles with a high center of gravity, like S.U.V.'s and light trucks.
 ''Removing these defective, potentially dangerous tires -- already linked to at least one fatal accident -- is vital to safety on the roads,'' Mr. Blumenthal said in a statement. ''Consumers with these tires on their vehicles should return them to the retailer immediately for free replacements.''
 Mr. Blumenthal said he was investigating which, if any, of the retailers knew about the problem while selling the tires. He said that he believed most did not, and that he would ''seek remedies'' for those. 
 About 500,000 of the defective tires have been sold in the country, Mr. Blumenthal said. He did not know how many were sold in Connecticut. 
 The list of retailers who sold the defective tires can be found on the attorney general's Web site, www.ct.gov/ag/.
 Foreign Tire Sales put a statement on its Web site Monday that read, in part, ''FTS will make every effort to locate, identify and replace all of the affected tires it imported.'' 
 The statement said the company hoped to begin the recall by July 16. JEFF HOLTZ 

GRAPHIC: Photo: NEW ROUTE Boarding a July 1 flight to Amsterdam from Bradley airport. (Photograph by George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LEISURE TRAVEL (69%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (69%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (69%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (69%); TOURISM (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (60%)

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); BOEING CO (58%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (54%); KAMAN INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES CORP (50%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); AF (PAR) (54%); AF (AMS) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) NETHERLANDS (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); CANADA (90%); INDIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (73%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



160 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: In Fear and Scandal, Some Find a New Drum to Beat

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
THERE was a time the words ''Made in China'' immediately evoked ''shoddy.'' Lately, many Americans are thinking ''danger.''
 After reports of toothpaste laced with poison, tires that fall apart on the highway, contaminated fish and pet food, who wouldn't be scared?
 But for some people, those fears are a dream come true. Politicians, catfish farmers, consumer activists, to name a few. 
 For years, these groups have been trying to raise alarms about the wholesomeness of products from China as they pursue their own causes. Now, they revel in the chance to give China a few choice shots.
 Southern catfish and shrimp farmers, for example, have invoked images of Asian ponds bubbling with antibiotics and pollutants but have gotten little notice from government regulators.
 ''We've been seeing prohibited chemicals and other additives in fish for quite a long time,'' said Dick Stevens, chief executive of Consolidated Catfish in Mississippi. ''We've just kind of gotten a blank look when we've said that to the agencies.''
 Ranchers in the Great Plains, and the politicians who represent them, have been campaigning to require country-of-origin labeling on agricultural products, on the theory that ''U.S.A.'' gives them an edge. In 2002, a law was passed that required such labeling on most agricultural products, but the meat and grocery industries successfully campaigned to keep it from going into effect, except for seafood. Now China has unwittingly given their cause a boost. 
 ''I think you see in this Chinese scandal that there are real risks to people, to pets, from problems in the food supply,'' said Senator Kent Conrad, a Democrat from North Dakota. ''People believe they have a right to know where their food is from.''
 William Marler, a Seattle lawyer, says the reports of contaminated food from China have opened all sorts of opportunities. He specializes in representing clients who have gotten sick from eating tainted food. His most recent case was filed against the manufacturer of a product called ''Veggie Booty,'' a snack popular with children. In some bags, the ''veggie'' seasoning -- made in China -- was contaminated with salmonella, which sickened at least 57 people.
 ''My guess is that with increased globalization, and the billions of dollars at play, and with the denial of the Chinese that there even is a problem, I had better brush up on my Chinese,'' Mr. Marler wrote on his blog.
 On Capitol Hill, China's problems have also prompted I-told-you-so's from consumer advocates and members of Congress who objected to China's inclusion in the World Trade Organization in the late 1990s. Most of the objections at the time concerned human rights, labor and the environment. Now the question is safety.
 ''We have very strict food and drug standards that we enforce,'' said Representative Marcy Kaptur, Democrat of Ohio, who opposed China's admission to the World Trade Organization. ''Importers are always trying to chip away at the edges of that safety net.'' 
 The long-term impact of the scandals, of course, will depend on how many more defective products surface and, as grim as it sounds, whether any more people or pets are hurt, sickened or killed. Still, here's a reasonable guess: a request by the Chinese to ship cooked chicken into the United States, which the Department of Agriculture is considering, will be shelved. 
 Meanwhile, other groups also stand to benefit. Members of Congress who have been calling for stricter standards for the nation's food-safety system now have another example of what can go wrong when oversight fails. And protectionists have another argument against free-trade agreements.
 But the underlying reality is that Chinese imports are going to continue growing in this country. They are simply too cheap and ubiquitous to resist.
 Sara Bongiorni knows this now. She decided that her family would try to live an entire year without using products that were made in China, and her findings are detailed in a new book, ''A Year Without 'Made in China': One Family's True Life Adventure in the Global Economy.''
 ''There's no way you can live anywhere near a normal life without buying things from China,'' Ms. Bongiorni says. She notes, for example, that nearly all telephones and cellular phones are made there. 
 A bit sheepishly, she admits that she, too, has benefited from the recent scandals. Her book was released a week and a half ago, as the reports were piling up. 
 ''I feel weird when people say, 'Great timing!' '' she said. ''I think, 'These are all kind of bad things.' '' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: SEASONED BY CHINA This may look like a snack. To a lawyer, it looks like a lawsuit. (Photograph by Matt Campbell/ European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AQUACULTURE (90%); FISHES (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CHEMICALS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); PETS (77%); SEAFOOD (77%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (77%); FOOD LABELING (77%); POISONINGS (77%); BACTERIA (77%); ANIMAL FOODS (77%); PET FOODS (77%); AGRICULTURE (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); SHELLFISH FARMING (71%); LEGISLATION (65%); ANTIBIOTICS (54%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

PERSON: KENT CONRAD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



161 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; The Way We Live Now; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: The Right To Spend

BYLINE: By Jeffrey Rosen. 
Jeffrey Rosen, a frequent contributor, is the author most recently of ''The Supreme Court: The Personalities and Rivalries That Defined America.''

 BODY:
American democracy has always been haunted by the specter of concentrated wealth. How can the principle of one man, one vote be honored when the accumulation of dollars translates so readily into the accumulation of political influence? If all citizens enjoy the equal right to participate in politics with their wallets, is it possible to hold a fair election? In today's proudly money-mad, winner-take-all economy, these questions are as urgent as ever. The spending patterns of the very rich help form our consumer habits and fill the pages of our magazines; it's little wonder that they shape our politics as well. The ongoing presidential campaign often seems to be a (somewhat) glorified competition for cash, and when a billionaire contemplates a candidacy, the entire process comes to a halt. 
The McCain-Feingold act, passed in 2002, was meant to do something about this; it was meant to even the balance between democracy and money. By limiting the donation of unregulated ''soft'' money to political parties and banning ''issue ads'' in the buildup to an election, it made it harder for a small number of wealthy donors to dominate the political process. Now, however, the Supreme Court has used the First Amendment to throw out one part of the law and threatened to discard the rest. In this new gilded age, are we doomed to return to gilded-age politics? 
 Certainly, the end of McCain-Feingold would have consequences. The ban on soft money addressed a serious political problem about wealth and political access: more than half of the $500 million in soft money raised in 2000 came from only 800 donors, each contributing a minimum of $120,000. Fully 435 of them were corporations or unions, and the rest were among the wealthiest 1 percent of individual citizens. Under McCain-Feingold, the influence of those donors has been reduced. Despite the rise of so-called 527 organizations to exploit loopholes in the law, the ban on corporate soft-money contributions to political parties has had some success. Candidates are relieved that they do not have to help solicit corporate soft money, as they did during the fund-raising scandals of the go-go '90s, and corporations are relieved at not being shaken down to contribute to both parties to hedge their bets. More important, banning soft money has forced the parties and candidates to learn to raise money from individuals who are not among the superrich, and the Internet has allowed them to do so in cost-effective ways. In the first half of 2007, Barack Obama received contributions from more than 250,000 individuals while raising millions over the Internet.
 But the Roberts Court may not allow the ban on soft money to stand for long. Although four liberal justices, following the thinking of Stephen Breyer, have concluded that campaign-finance laws serve the purposes of the First Amendment by enhancing public confidence in democracy and equalizing political participation, four conservative justices have reached the opposite conclusion on the grounds that giving money is a form of speech. And Chief Justice Roberts may well join them in a future case. So let's imagine that the court votes before long to strike down the ban on soft money, gutting what remains of McCain-Feingold. What would American politics look like then? 
 In some ways, it would look a lot like American politics before the 1970s. Corporations would give freely to state and national parties. The effects of wealth would once more be magnified as the size of donations ballooned. But not all of the effects of radical deregulation would be negative. Mega-rich candidates would face better-financed rivals and thus inspire less fear. And, having discovered the virtues of Internet fund-raising, candidates are unlikely to ignore small donors, as they did in the '90s. 
 The most significant result of a decision to strike down virtually all campaign-finance regulations would be to dash reformers' hopes for more comprehensive reform -- hope, that is, for the sort of policies that proponents of equal access in politics believe would actually work. In Belgium, for example, parties receive 85 percent of their revenue from the government, and spending is strictly restricted during the three months before an election. Such an approach, however, would be hard to reconcile with Americans' dislike of subsidizing politicians -- or with our First Amendment tradition, whether interpreted by the Warren Court or the Roberts Court. 
 The larger question, of course, is whether it's useful for the country to have yet another polarized debate about whether giving money is free speech. The truth is that few people are absolutists on the question. No less an egalitarian than the political theorist Michael Walzer, who supports a ''radical ban on private fund-raising,'' has suggested that candidates should at least be allowed to hold bake sales. And free-speech conservatives, who care more about liberty than equality in the political process, haven't yet questioned the ban on direct corporate contributions to candidates, which dates back to the Progressive era. Since 1976, the Supreme Court has tried to finesse this debate. It has insisted that Congress can regulate contributions to candidates more extensively than expenditures by candidates, because contributions are more likely to lead to quid pro quo corruption and are less central to free expression. But now the court seems on the verge of throwing out this nuanced position and announcing that because money is almost always speech, it can almost never be regulated. That's a plausible vision of the First Amendment, but whether it will produce a political system that inspires confidence among the American people remains to be seen. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photograph by Gueorgui Pinkhassov) Graph: ''BUILT TO GIVE'' Biggest-spending 527 committees, 2006 election cycle (Source by Center for Responsive Politics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); STEPHEN BREYER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



162 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Of Good Risk and Bad Risk

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHAT portion of the stock mutual funds in your 401(k) plan should be invested in so-called value funds, as opposed to those that hold growth stocks? 
 For years, the nearly unanimous recommendation from academia was to invest all of the equity allocation in value funds and nothing in growth funds. But the best approach, according to a powerful strand of recent research, is to divide a long-term portfolio just about equally between the two types.
 Growth and value refer generally to whether a stock is in or out of favor. Value stocks are those that, for whatever reason, are being overlooked or even shunned by investors, and for this reason have relatively low ratios of price to earnings or price to book value. By contrast, growth stocks tend to be current Wall Street darlings. Their popularity leads them to trade at relatively high valuation ratios. 
 It is widely known that value has outperformed growth over the very long term. In fact, according to Ibbotson Associates, the race isn't even close: over the nearly four decades from the start of 1969 through the end of last year, value stocks outperformed growth stocks by an average of 2.5 percentage points a year. Even better, according to Ibbotson, the typical value stock over those 38 years was 15 percent less risky than the typical growth stock.
 Given the impressive case for value investing, it seems hard to argue that long-term investors should still make heavy allocations to growth funds. But there is a strong argument to be made for growth funds, and its theoretical basis traces to a study that appeared in the December 2004 issue of The American Economic Review, entitled ''Bad Beta, Good Beta.'' Its authors were John Y. Campbell, an economics professor at Harvard, and Tuomo Vuolteenaho, who at the time was also an economics professor at Harvard but is now a partner at Arrowstreet Capital, a money management firm based in Boston. Professor Campbell is also a partner at the firm.
 The key to their argument is the need to differentiate between two types of risk. While a short-term investor is equally worried about each type, a longer-term investor is primarily interested in just one of them. The researchers found that, though growth stocks have more total risk than value stocks, they have less of the kind that is of most concern to long-term investors.
 The first of the two kinds of risk is discount rate risk -- which in some ways can be viewed as the risk that interest rates will rise. Growth stocks are particularly vulnerable to it, because their current valuations depend so much on the discounted value of their future earnings. The second kind of risk is that of economic trouble, or even catastrophe -- what the researchers call cash-flow risk. They found that value stocks are more vulnerable than growth stocks to this type of risk.
 The researchers argue that most investors with very long time horizons -- a decade or more -- will be less interested in discount rate risk because it tends to be largely self-correcting. A growth stock whose price comes down because of higher interest rates will recover most of that loss when those rates decline again. By contrast, the researchers found that cash-flow risks tend to be much more enduring. Needless to say, a company that goes out of business will never recover.
 PROFESSOR CAMPBELL and Mr. Vuolteenaho offer this analogy: Risk is like cholesterol in that both have a ''bad'' variety and a ''good'' variety. Doctors are not particularly alarmed by a high total cholesterol level, if the bulk of it is the good variety. Similarly, the researchers argue, long-term investors shouldn't be concerned about growth stocks' apparently high levels of risk, because the bulk of it is the ''good'' variety, the discount rate kind.
 The analogy isn't perfect, of course. For the short-term investor, both kinds of risk are equally bad. That's because stocks over short periods don't have a chance to recover from any losses generated by higher interest rates. It's only over longer periods that the investor becomes more concerned with cash-flow risk than discount-rate risk.
 What does all of this mean for the choice of stock mutual funds in a retirement portfolio? An answer is provided by a study that has circulated for several months as an academic working paper. Titled ''Optimal Value and Growth Tilts in Long-Horizon Portfolios,'' it is by Luis M. Viceira, a finance professor at Harvard Business School, and Jakub W. Jurek, a Ph.D. candidate there. A version is at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract-id=796207. 
 Building on the research by Professor Campbell and Mr. Vuolteenaho, and assuming that the future will be like the past, Professor Viceira and Mr. Jurek calculated which allocations to growth and value funds will produce the greatest future returns, relative to the amount of risk incurred. They concluded that an investor whose time horizon is relatively short -- just a year or two -- should place almost all of his equity allocation in value funds. But unless he is eager to take on risk, an investor with a very long time horizon -- more than decade, for example -- should invest as much as half of his equity allocation in growth funds.
 The study by Professor Viceira and Mr. Jurek also illustrates the need to rethink the relationship between the short and long terms in the stock market. For years, many financial planners have made the implicit assumption that the long term can be viewed as a succession of short terms. The new study shows that this assumption is not always correct. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''How Much Growth, and How Much Value?'' The longer the time horizon of a conservative investor's equity portfolio, the greater the proportion that should be allocated to growth funds, a new study has found. Chart shows Recommended allocations within a conservative investor's equity portfolio. Growth funds from 1,5,10, and 20 years. Growth funds and Value funds. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (85%); US 401K PLANS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); WRITERS (69%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



163 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Minimum Wage And the Working Poor

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Jill Jenkins argues that the average household with a minimum wage worker earns $53,370. But averages are skewed by a few very high earning families at the top -- the average salary of nine families making $10,000 and one making $410,000 is $50,000. 
 Jared Bernstein, former deputy chief economist for the Department of Labor, testified before Congress that only 3 percent of the benefit of a $1 minimum wage increase goes to the top 10 percent of earners, while 29 percent goes to families in the lowest 10 percent of earners (average income $11,700) and 53 percent to the lowest 30 percent. 
 Furthermore, recent growth in the number of small businesses, employment and payroll are all greater in high minimum wage states than low minimum wage states.
 Finally, Ms. Jenkins claims that the average salary of waiters and waitresses in New York ($30,513) is double the federal poverty level. But to afford even an inexpensive apartment on Long Island, one needs to make at least $35,000.
 Tony Del Genio 
 West Babylon, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); FAMILY (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007



164 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: Minimum Wage And the Working Poor

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Let's be clear: although a majority of New York's minimum wage workers are teenagers looking for spending money, there are also significant numbers of people trying to support themselves and their families on $7.15 per hour (imagine how far that goes in our region!). 
 Whenever a hike in the minimum wage has been proposed, the same tired arguments and dire predictions are trotted out, and yet the economy just continues to hum along after the deed is done. Isn't it time to move on and admit that this is just the right thing to do? 
 Edward Falcone
 Cortlandt Manor 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007



165 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: The Government's Con Ed Bill

BYLINE: By Charles Perrow. 
Charles Perrow, an emeritus professor of sociology at Yale, is the author of ''The Next Catastrophe: Reducing Our Vulnerabilities to Natural, Industrial and Terrorist Disasters.''

DATELINE: New Haven 

 BODY:
SHOULD American taxpayers help Con Ed provide New York City's financial district with a safer power supply? The Department of Homeland Security thinks so. It has decided to pay the electric company as much as $25 million to install a high-tech line between two substations in Lower Manhattan that would be more resilient than the current line in the event of a terrorist attack, severe weather or a simple operating error by the electric company.
Con Ed is already planning an $8 billion upgrade of its facilities in New York State. Without the federal money, the new secure line won't be part of it. 
 But the electric company ought to pay all of the cost of upgrading its corner of the nation's electric grid. And federal tax dollars should be reserved for increasing the reliability of the nation's grid as a whole, not just that part of it that goes between the two substations underneath New York City. This is the only way to avoid blackouts like the one that affected the Northeast in August 2003 or the one that crippled California in August 1996.
 The national grid is now less reliable than it has ever been, thanks to the deregulation of the electric power industry that began 15 years ago. Deregulation has led the industry to consolidate, increasing its profits. But now local failures are more frequent, blackouts are more extensive and the price of electricity has risen more than can be attributed to rising fuel costs.
 The small local utilities that once kept their pieces of the grid up to date are now consolidated into multistate entities, and these giant wholesalers of electricity have little incentive to spend money to upgrade or even maintain the grid. 
 The big wholesalers send electricity ever longer distances in order to capture small differences in local prices. But as electricity travels farther and farther -- from Ohio to Ontario, for example -- efficiency is reduced. More heat is generated on power lines. And when problems occur -- a tree branch falls on a hot, slack line, or computer software in a local office fails -- they can lead to regional blackouts. This is what happened in 2003, when a software failure near Toledo, Ohio, combined with sagging power lines and a simple error by a control room worker to cause a blackout in eight Northeastern and Midwestern states and Ontario.
 The cost of that blackout to the utilities was minuscule; to the public, it was estimated at $4 billion to $10 billion. 
 Profits in the electric power industry are high. But so far, attempts by Congress and the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (the nonprofit agency that monitors the grid) to prod the wholesalers to spend more of their profits on improving the grid, or even spend more on simple maintenance, have failed. Senator Charles Schumer of New York chided the commission that investigated the 2003 blackout for hitting ''the snooze button'' by recommending ''baby steps.'' But even baby steps like replacing mechanical relays with electronic ones are not always being taken. 
 If the Department of Homeland Security is to subsidize this profitable industry at all, it should focus its attention on such things as the vulnerable ''choke point'' (a narrowing of the grid) on the Oregon-California border. In August 1996 a squirrel cut off the power flowing from the Northwestern states to California, causing a 9-state blackout. 
 In contrast, when the 9/11 disaster disrupted the lines under Wall Street, the financial district barely skipped a beat. Cellphones and Internet connections kept businesses running during the short time when power was out. And most companies operating there had learned from the first World Trade Center terrorist attack, in 1993, to back up their critical data. 
 It may be true that the New York City financial district has a hammerlock on our economy, but that does not mean taxpayers in all 50 states should pay to keep its power supply safe. Con Edison should make this upgrade -- and do all the other work needed on its portion of the power grid -- on its own. That will no doubt require adding far more than $25 million to the proposed $8 billion in spending.
 As deregulation of the electric power industry has advanced over the past 15 years, industrial accidents, natural disasters and terrorist threats have all increased as well. It is time that power companies paid their share of costs to prepare for them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); WHOLESALERS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (77%); SOFTWARE DEFECTS (76%); TERRORISM (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (84%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007



166 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: New York Celtics

BYLINE: By Buzz Bissinger. 
Buzz Bissinger grew up in New York City and is a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist. He is the author of ''Friday Night Lights'' and ''A Prayer for the City.''

 BODY:
North River
 By Pete Hamill.
 341 pp. Little, Brown & Company. $25.99.
So here's the joke I recently heard at a party: ''Hey, you know what the definition is of Irish Alzheimer's? They only remember grudges.''
 Maybe it's wrong to begin a review of a serious novel with a joke, one that reflects a cultural stereotype no less. But it's in perfect alignment with Pete Hamill's ''North River,'' which pours much of its 341 pages into the plight of the Irish poor in New York during the Depression. I am not put off by the joke (O.K., I think it's funny). And I wish Hamill had used it, because then there would have been some snippet of relief from the aching theme of Irish Misery. 
 Irish Misery in New York is not a new creative discovery, of course. It has become a cottage industry in literature and film, ranging from Frank McCourt's ''Angela's Ashes,'' published in 1996, to the 2003 Jim Sheridan film ''In America.'' Fair or unfair, no other ethnic group so easily lends itself to such fertile inner conflict, resilience and pride, the legacy of Joyce and Yeats mixed up with booze and self-hatred and stubbornness as an art form and too many children and never enough money. The contradictions are irresistible to writers and filmmakers. But the ground has been covered so often at this point that it risks cliche. Presumably the only trick left is to go even farther than your predecessors did, pile on the misery even thicker. Which is what Hamill does with his main character in ''North River,'' who's burdened by a tale of woe so woeful he makes Quasimodo look positively light on his feet.
 So let's meet James Finbar Delaney. He is a 47-year-old doctor ministering to patients in the tenements of the lower West Side who occasionally appreciate him but much of the time don't listen, refuse to go to the hospital, irrationally blame him for deaths of loved ones, and collect cases of the clap like pennies when they aren't brutally beating their wives and then sobbing over it. And that's only the beginning.
 Delaney originally wanted to be a surgeon, but then he went off to World War I and ruined his arm, and the dream died. Speaking of dying, both his parents were killed in an influenza outbreak in New York while he was in a French hospital recuperating from his war wounds, so he didn't even get to attend their funeral. His wife, Molly, whom he first met when she was having a miscarriage, is furious with him for volunteering for duty overseas; unable to shake off her angry feelings of abandonment, she eventually walks off to the North River, another name for the slice of the lower Hudson that divides New York and New Jersey, and vanishes. That leaves him with a daughter named Grace, whose idea of family time is to dump her toddler son in Delaney's lap without notice so she can go to Spain to try to find her husband the revolutionary. 
 There's still more for the nobly beleaguered doctor -- it is the height of the Depression, after all -- no money, no steam heat, no love life, tortured by sleepless nights and dreams of his disappeared wife and his disappeared daughter and the carnage of the battlefield in France that left his arm ruined. He of course does have the requisite copy of Yeats by the bedside, which he reads for sustenance. He shadowboxes in the morning, perhaps to make the point that the Irish are as into fitness as they are into self-flagellation. But mostly he stews in guilt and self-doubt and emotional impotence. Until his young grandson suddenly appears. 
 Little Carlito is 2 going on 3. Since his father is of Spanish descent, he doesn't know much English. So silence here is a definite virtue. But Hamill insists over and over that we hear him speak in his actual vernacular: ''evvafent'' instead of ''elephant''; ''moo-zick'' instead of ''music''; ''tray'' instead of ''train.'' 
 The appearance of Carlito sets in motion other crucial events. Jim Delaney must find a housekeeper to take care of the child so he can continue his regular rounds as a living grim reaper in those tenements of hard luck. And into his life comes the mysterious and beautiful Rose. She's Italian, and she has a back story of woe to match Delaney's. As Rose and Delaney circle each other, the good doctor also has to deal with a mobster mope named Frankie Botts, who's angry at Delaney for treating the bullet wound of a rival and refusing to reveal his whereabouts. Will Delaney survive the threats? Will he and Rose end up together? You get the picture.
 For nearly half a century, Hamill has been one of our finest writers when it comes to New York, through his newspaper columns and journalistic essays. His 1996 piece in Esquire about the death of boxing still holds up, containing the following fat gem of a sentence to describe the atmosphere of the old Madison Square Garden: ''Before the fights, the lobby was jammed with neighborhood tough guys and off-duty cops, old fighters with crumpled faces, gamblers with dead eyes and pearl-gray hats and velvet collars on their coats.'' His Op-Ed article in The New York Times in 2005, in which he somehow twinned up the deaths of the critic Susan Sontag and the actor Jerry Orbach into a seamless whole, is a model of economical writing. 
 Hamill, now 72, is the author of the critically acclaimed memoir ''A Drinking Life,'' about his longtime bout with alcoholism. He has also written nine previous novels, including several best sellers, so he must be doing something right. But the puzzle of ''North River'' is that it reads like the kind of first novel you would expect from a journalist, in which observation and eye for detail and reportage have been replaced by sentimentality and dead-on-arrival descriptions. An olive tree in Delaney's garden, wrapped in tar paper to protect it during the winter, looks like ''a giant ice-cream cone.'' He lives in a ''large, drafty house.'' He feels fear that ''opened and closed in his stomach like a fist.'' 
 Hamill is at his best when he writes about his city. He knows New York present and past, and he is able to make us taste the early-20th-century time frame of ''North River'' -- Times Square with its ''midnight places like Rector's and Shanley's and Churchill's'' and Delaney ''inhaling perfumed shoulders on dance floors''; the 10th Avenue el slicing through buildings; the six acres of Washington Square covering over the bones of the poor, since it was once a cemetery; a sweet little glance of Jolson at the Winter Garden Theater. 
 That's the Hamill I admired so much as a young would-be journalist growing up in New York in the 1960s and '70s. That's the Hamill with the gift for detail that made him so special. ''North River'' has its share of those moments, but they aren't enough to overcome the book's pitfalls. So let's consider ''North River'' a blip in an otherwise marvelous and deservedly distinguished writing life.. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photograph by Bettmann/Corbis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (72%); FILM (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); ETHNIC GROUPS (71%); WRITERS (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (66%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); CHILDREN (64%); WORLD WAR I (60%); INFLUENZA (60%); ETHNICITY (51%)

COMPANY: LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



167 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DATA BANK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: Hotel Acquisition Sets the Pace for a Strong Rally

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market surged during abbreviated trading last week, propelled by the wave of mergers and acquisitions that has buoyed it for months. 
 Hilton Hotels rose 36.6 percent for the week, the best performance in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. On Tuesday, the Blackstone Group announced that it would buy Hilton at a 40 percent premium to the hotel chain's closing price on Monday. That rich valuation had a ripple effect: Starwood Hotels and Resorts, Marriott International and Host Hotels were all among the top weekly performers in the S.& P., with gains of more than 8 percent.
 Oil rose to $72.81 a barrel in New York, its highest level in months, helping to raise the stock price of energy companies. Exxon Mobilshares gained more than 3 percent, among the best weekly performances in the Dow.
 Markets in the United States were closed Wednesday, Independence Day. For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 203.06 points, or 1.5 percent, to close at 13,611.68. The S.& P. 500 gained 27.09 points, or 1.8 percent, to 1,530.44. The Nasdaq composite climbed 63.28 points, or 2.4 percent, to 2,666.51. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 5.18 percent from 5.02 percent the previous week.JEFF SOMMER

GRAPHIC: Charts: Charts indicate Hotel Aquisitions 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); HOTEL CHAINS (92%); HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); MERGERS (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (78%); RESORTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%)

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); HILTON WORLDWIDE (74%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (57%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (84%); BX (NYSE) (58%); HOT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (84%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (84%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



168 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: In Africa, One Step Forward and Two Back

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KOTKIN

 BODY:
ANGOLA is sizzling. Its gross domestic product is on pace to expand 30 percent in 2007, making the economy of this oil-soaked African country perhaps the fastest-growing in the world.
 Then again, in 2004, the combined gross domestic product (in constant 2000 dollars) for all the 48 countries of sub-Saharan Africa was $385.6 billion, or about that of New Jersey. And in Angola, up to 12 percent of G.D.P. vanishes, unaccounted for, each year, according to Transparency International, a global watchdog group. 
 Africa is enormous, and varied. Tiny Botswana, with 1.5 million people, is a success story, and big, post-apartheid South Africa is complex but inspiring. Still, by and large, Africa is struggling. 
 And more than ever, it appears to be everybody's business. (Vanity Fair has a special Africa issue this month.) From celebrities and economists to economists who are now celebrities, the concerned want us to know that they have the answers to Africa's challenges: more aid and microloans, antimalarial bed nets and mobile phones, debt cancellation and discounted drugs. 
 But here is a head scratcher: although globalization has transformed Asia, decades of assisted development have not produced sustained prosperity in Africa. Any more goodwill from the African aid industry, it sometimes seems, and the continent may be condemned forever.
 Enter the judicious Paul Collier, a former research director at the World Bank and an economist at Oxford University who has long studied Africa. He previously wrote about a ''conflict trap'' -- self-perpetuating civil wars that sidetrack development. But now, in ''The Bottom Billion'' (Oxford University Press, $28), he concedes that Malawi has been ''conflict-free for its entire post-independence history, yet it still has not developed.'' The book takes due account of other economic traps and fills out an ambitious Africa agenda.
 Development, Dr. Collier argues persuasively, is both too narrow and too broad; too narrowly focused on aid, which often causes rather than cures problems, and too broadly focused on the entire developing world. Poverty has been plummeting for most of that world -- a first in history -- but circumstances for about a billion people continue to deteriorate. He wants to redirect development promotion to this bottom billion, 70 percent of them in Africa, despite the uphill rock-push that would be involved in relocating development types from Rio to, say, Bangui.
 Four conditions can become economic traps: abundant natural resources, which emancipate elites from investing in and being accountable to the citizenry; landlocked geography amid underdeveloped neighbors (Switzerland can depend on Germany to build ports, but Uganda depends on Kenya); unchecked violence; and poor institutions, which convert what otherwise should be a boon -- foreigners eager to invest -- into a nightmare.
 Free trade, for all its benefits, cannot lift the bottom billion out of these traps, Dr. Collier points out, not least because soaring, cheap-labor Asia now stands in Africa's way.
 He proposes a four-instrument tool kit. First (and least important) is smarter aid, linked to other tools. Second is well-executed military interventions. He celebrates Britain's unheralded operation to bring security to Sierra Leone as ''cheap, confident and sustained.'' But many other blundered armed interventions, in Africa and elsewhere, would seem more predictive of future efforts.
 About three-quarters of the Africans in the bottom billion, have lived through a civil war, which Dr. Collier estimates typically costs a country and its neighbors $64 billion. And once a state fails, it takes 59 years, on average, to return to functionality, at a cost of $100 billion, he says. These numbers (detailed calculations are omitted) undergird his view that it is more economical to act to forestall civil war or state failure. 
 Of course, the costs of intervention are chiefly borne by the taxpayers and the troops of rich countries, while the costs of failures are mostly borne by the bottom billion. But if you do not buy the economic argument, Dr. Collier also invokes security. ''A cesspool of misery next to a world of growing prosperity,'' he argues, ''is both terrible for those in the cesspool and dangerous for those who live next to it.'' 
 A third tool for Africa is governance charters, Dr. Collier says. He envisions the creation and adherence to such a set of standards as analogous to qualifying for entry to the European Union, without actual integration, whereby norms are made clear and governments are rewarded for adhering to them. 
 Finally, Dr. Collier proposes an adjustment in global trade policy so that wealthy countries open their markets by removing tariffs against the bottom billion in cases where tariffs are in place against Asia, giving Africa a temporary leg up.
 No world government exists to enact Dr. Collier's nuanced proposals. International nongovernmental organizations (the ersatz world government) often have their heads in the Sahara, he shows in the book's liveliest passages. 
 So he pitches his recommendations to the Group of 8 industrialized nations, which he identifies as one of the few global bodies with ostensible clout, and which has already put Africa on its plate.
 Still, Dr. Collier soberly observes that ''change in the societies at the very bottom must come predominantly from within.'' In that light, we might be tempted to ask everyone just to leave Africa alone, to see if it can make it on its own. The problem is, cutting off aid would not remove outsiders' hands.
 That is where John Ghazvinian comes in. In ''Untapped: The Scramble for Africa's Oil'' (Harcourt, $25), he reports on a six-month jaunt in 2005 through 12 countries and their putschists, preachers, kleptocrats, activists, child soldiers and foreign ''oilfield trash'' -- that is, pot-bellied white men bar-hopping ''with 19-year-old Naomi Campbell look-alikes.'' 
 From Nigeria, where oil was first tapped in 1958, through the more recent gushers off Equatorial Guinea and into Chad and Sudan, the scrappy author, who has a doctorate in history from Oxford, details how every recalibrated program to finally enable the African masses to share in a hydrocarbon mother lode has crashed and burned.
 Today, Dr. Ghazvinian notes, the United States is all over Africa, come what may, as a crude-oil alternative to the Middle East. And with China, the world's second-biggest oil importer, also in the search -- alongside South Korea, India and Brazil -- the scramble is on. In Africa, things may get a lot worse before they get a lot worse.
 Dr. Ghazvinian's perceptive, at times self-dramatizing rough guide lacks the enduring sparkle of ''Tropical Gangsters,'' by Robert E. Klitgaard (1990) or the scholarly wallop of ''African Economies and the Politics of Permanent Crisis,'' by Nicholas van de Walle (2001).
 Still, ''Untapped'' drills home the point, acknowledged by Dr. Collier, that a thoughtful strategy to lift the neglected bottom billion must compete against the global oil giants going about their business -- and the one billion people in countries at the top, and the four billion in the middle, whose consumption habits stand behind these multinationals.
 As big consumers of oil, you and I are intervening powerfully in Africa -- and perhaps unwittingly furthering graft and bloodletting. That meddlesome Africa industry that is helping to cause so much added grief? Look in the mirror. 

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CELEBRITIES (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); MALARIA (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (71%); GEOGRAPHY (70%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (68%); MICROFINANCE (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); CIVIL WAR (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%)

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (82%)

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) AFRICA (99%); ANGOLA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UGANDA (79%); GERMANY (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); MALAWI (79%); KENYA (78%)

TITLE: The Bottom Billion (Book)>; The Bottom Billion (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



169 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: The Challenge of Global Warming

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Moving Beyond Kyoto,'' by Al Gore (Op-Ed, July 1):
 We need much more than the environmentally friendly climate-change treaty Mr. Gore calls for. Such a treaty would probably end up limited in scope like all the trade agreements and nuclear-arms accords. 
 But Mr. Gore had it right in his 1992 book, ''Earth in the Balance,'' when he emphasized the importance of an all-encompassing Global Marshall Plan. 
 A Global Marshall Plan with teeth would indicate a much broader commitment by the planet as a whole, enhancing an unparalleled global undertaking to save civilization as we know it.
 Larry Vigon Chicago, July 1, 2007
 To the Editor:
 For several months, I have been challenging former Vice President Al Gore to a televised debate on whether climate change is a crisis. I wrote to him and have published advertisements about the challenge in newspapers, but I have not had a reply.
 A televised debate would do what Mr. Gore wants: it would raise the profile of the climate change issue by attracting a worldwide audience. Is he running scared?
 Mr. Gore has demanded that the developed countries reduce their carbon emissions by 90 percent. Yet even if the alarmists were right, our sacrifice would not affect the climate: emissions growth in China, India, Indonesia, Brazil, Russia and other fast-emerging economies would quickly replace all of the developed countries' emissions.
 The correct policy is to do nothing. For the real threat is not of planetary overheating, but of energy shortage. Security of energy supply is what the serious politicians and analysts are addressing. For us, the ''global warming'' scare is passe.
 Christopher Monckton Carie, Scotland, July 2, 2007 The writer was a policy adviser to Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain. 
 To the Editor:
 While former Vice President Al Gore's sincerity is beyond question, it is hard to take his pleading seriously when he does not once mention the fastest, most effective and most efficient solution for climate change: carbon taxes.
 I for one am willing to pay $6 for a gallon of gasoline and see a commensurate rise in other fossil-fuel taxes. 
 Unless leaders like Mr. Gore can convince a majority of Americans that the dire consequences of climate change require drastic measures, we will continue our inexorable march to the irrevocable disaster that he predicts. 
 Geoff Berg Warren, R.I., July 1, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Al Gore is right to point to Venus's high temperature as a scary example of what could happen if we continue pumping carbon dioxide into our atmosphere.
 It has been disheartening for me to watch the graph of carbon dioxide measured from the top of a Hawaii volcano go up and up over the decades. I have concluded that we must take drastic measures, like building nuclear power plants as soon as possible and using existing electricity more efficiently. 
 Minor improvements like wind power, with a thousand windmills needed to equal one power plant, seem to be mere window dressing and divert us from the substantial changes we need.
 Jay M. Pasachoff Williamstown, Mass., July 1, 2007 The writer is a professor of astronomy and director of the Hopkins Observatory at Williams College.
 To the Editor:
 There's no disputing the urgency Al Gore rightly assigns to mitigating the emissions that lead to global warming. But it takes rhetorical hubris to call climate ''the greatest challenge that humankind has ever faced.''
 Unhappily, that same humankind confronts multiple challenges, like the proliferation of nuclear-weapons capability. Why do we need to rank one existential menace over another? 
 Joel Darmstadter Bethesda, Md., July 1, 2007

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (Drawing by Joel Castillo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); EMISSIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); WRITERS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); FUEL TAX (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (83%)

PERSON: AL GORE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENUS (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SCOTLAND (68%); UNITED KINGDOM (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007



170 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: POLICE PLAN WEB OF SURVEILLANCE FOR DOWNTOWN

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
By the end of this year, police officials say, more than 100 cameras will have begun monitoring cars moving through Lower Manhattan, the beginning phase of a London-style surveillance system that would be the first in the United States.
 The Lower Manhattan Security Initiative, as the plan is called, will resemble London's so-called Ring of Steel, an extensive web of cameras and roadblocks designed to detect, track and deter terrorists. British officials said images captured by the cameras helped track suspects after the London subway bombings in 2005 and the car bomb plots last month. 
 If the program is fully financed, it will include not only license plate readers but also 3,000 public and private security cameras below Canal Street, as well as a center staffed by the police and private security officers, and movable roadblocks. 
 ''This area is very critical to the economic lifeblood of this nation,'' New York City's police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, said in an interview last week. ''We want to make it less vulnerable.''
 But critics question the plan's efficacy and cost, as well as the implications of having such heavy surveillance over such a broad swath of the city. 
 For a while, it appeared that New York could not even afford such a system. Last summer, Mr. Kelly said that the program was in peril after the city's share of Homeland Security urban grant money was cut by nearly 40 percent. 
 But Mr. Kelly said last week that the department had since obtained $25 million toward the estimated $90 million cost of the plan. Fifteen million dollars came from Homeland Security grants, he said, while another $10 million came from the city, more than enough to install 116 license plate readers in fixed and mobile locations, including cars and helicopters, in the coming months. 
 The readers have been ordered, and Mr. Kelly said he hoped the rest of the money would come from additional federal grants.
 The license plate readers would check the plates' numbers and send out alerts if suspect vehicles were detected. The city is already seeking state approval to charge drivers a fee to enter Manhattan below 86th Street, which would require the use of license plate readers. If the plan is approved, the police will most likely collect information from those readers too, Mr. Kelly said. 
 But the downtown security plan involves much more than keeping track of license plates. Three thousand surveillance cameras would be installed below Canal Street by the end of 2008, about two-thirds of them owned by downtown companies. Some of those are already in place. Pivoting gates would be installed at critical intersections; they would swing out to block traffic or a suspect car at the push of a button.
 Unlike the 250 or so cameras the police have already placed in high-crime areas throughout the city, which capture moving images that have to be downloaded, the security initiative cameras would transmit live information instantly.
 The operation will cost an estimated $8 million to run the first year, Mr. Kelly said. Its headquarters will be in Lower Manhattan, he said, though the police were still negotiating where exactly it will be. The police and corporate security agents will work together in the center, said Paul J. Browne, the chief spokesman for the police. The plan does not need City Council approval, he said.
 The Police Department is still considering whether to use face-recognition technology, an inexact science that matches images against those in an electronic database, or biohazard detectors in its Lower Manhattan network, Mr. Browne said. 
 The entire operation is forecast to be in place and running by 2010, in time for the projected completion of several new buildings in the financial district, including the new Goldman Sachs world headquarters.
 Civil liberties advocates said they were worried about misuse of technology that tracks the movement of thousands of cars and people,
 Would this mean that every Wall Street broker, every tourist munching a hot dog near the United States Court House and every sightseer at ground zero would constantly be under surveillance?
 ''This program marks a whole new level of police monitoring of New Yorkers and is being done without any public input, outside oversight, or privacy protections for the hundreds of thousands of people who will end up in N.Y.P.D. computers,'' Christopher Dunn, a lawyer with the New York Civil Liberties Union, wrote in an e-mail message.
 He said he worried about what would happen to the images once they were archived, how they would be used by the police and who else would have access to them. 
 Already, according to a report last year by the civil liberties group, there are nearly 4,200 public and private surveillance cameras below 14th Street, a fivefold increase since 1998, with virtually no oversight over what becomes of the recordings.
 Mr. Browne said that the Police Department would have control over how the material is used. He said that the cameras would be recording in ''areas where there's no expectation of privacy'' and that law-abiding citizens had nothing to fear. 
 ''It would be used to intercept a threat coming our way, but not to collect data indiscriminately on individuals,'' he said.
 Mr. Browne said software tracking the cameras' images would be designed to pick up suspicious behavior. If, for example, a bag is left unattended for a certain length of time, or a suspicious car is detected repeatedly circling the same block, the system will send out an alert, he said. 
 Still, there are questions about whether such surveillance devices indeed serve their purpose. 
 There is little evidence to suggest that security cameras deter crime or terrorists, said James J. Carafano, a senior fellow for homeland security at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group in Washington.
 For all its comprehensiveness, London's Ring of Steel, which was built in the early 1990s to deter Irish Republican Army attacks, did not prevent the July 7, 2005, subway bombings or the attempted car bombings in London last month. But the British authorities said the cameras did prove useful in retracing the paths of the suspects' cars last month, leading to several arrests.
 While having 3,000 cameras whirring at the same time means loads of information will be captured, it also means there will be a lot of useless data to sift through. 
 ''The more hay you have, the harder it is to find the needle,'' said Mr. Carafano.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 12, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Monday about New York City's plan to set up an extensive network of cameras and roadblocks in Lower Manhattan to thwart terrorism reversed the sources of the $25 million secured to help pay for the network. The Department of Homeland Security has contributed $10 million and the city $15 million. The article also referred incompletely to the status of the plan. It does not need City Council approval because the Council has already approved the budget that includes the $15 million outlay.
A front-page article on Monday about New York City's plan to set up an extensive network of cameras and roadblocks in Lower Manhattan to thwart terrorism reversed the sources of the $25 million secured to help pay for the network. The Department of Homeland Security has contributed $10 million and the city $15 million. The article also referred incompletely to the status of the plan. It does not need City Council approval because the Council has already approved the budget that includes the $15 million outlay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); OPTICAL CHARACTER RECOGNITION (88%); APPROVALS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); HELICOPTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007



171 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Terror

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
These days terrorism is the first refuge of scoundrels. So when British authorities announced that a ring of Muslim doctors working for the National Health Service was behind the recent failed bomb plot, we should have known what was coming. 
 ''National healthcare: Breeding ground for terror?'' read the on-screen headline, as the Fox News host Neil Cavuto and the commentator Jerry Bowyer solemnly discussed how universal health care promotes terrorism. 
 While this was crass even by the standards of Bush-era political discourse, Fox was following in a long tradition. For more than 60 years, the medical-industrial complex and its political allies have used scare tactics to prevent America from following its conscience and making access to health care a right for all its citizens. 
 I say conscience, because the health care issue is, most of all, about morality. 
 That's what we learn from the overwhelming response to Michael Moore's ''Sicko.'' Health care reformers should, by all means, address the anxieties of middle-class Americans, their growing and justified fear of finding themselves uninsured or having their insurers deny coverage when they need it most. But reformers shouldn't focus only on self-interest. They should also appeal to Americans' sense of decency and humanity. 
 What outrages people who see ''Sicko'' is the sheer cruelty and injustice of the American health care system -- sick people who can't pay their hospital bills literally dumped on the sidewalk, a child who dies because an emergency room that isn't a participant in her mother's health plan won't treat her, hard-working Americans driven into humiliating poverty by medical bills.
 ''Sicko'' is a powerful call to action -- but don't count the defenders of the status quo out. History shows that they're very good at fending off reform by finding new ways to scare us.
 These scare tactics have often included over-the-top claims about the dangers of government insurance. ''Sicko'' plays part of a recording Ronald Reagan once made for the American Medical Association, warning that a proposed program of health insurance for the elderly -- the program now known as Medicare -- would lead to totalitarianism. 
 Right now, by the way, Medicare -- which did enormous good, without leading to a dictatorship -- is being undermined by privatization.
 Mainly, though, the big-money interests with a stake in the present system want you to believe that universal health care would lead to a crushing tax burden and lousy medical care.
 Now, every wealthy country except the United States already has some form of universal care. Citizens of these countries pay extra taxes as a result -- but they make up for that through savings on insurance premiums and out-of-pocket medical costs. The overall cost of health care in countries with universal coverage is much lower than it is here.
 Meanwhile, every available indicator says that in terms of quality, access to needed care and health outcomes, the U.S. health care system does worse, not better, than other advanced countries -- even Britain, which spends only about 40 percent as much per person as we do.
 Yes, Canadians wait longer than insured Americans for elective surgery. But over all, the average Canadian's access to health care is as good as that of the average insured American -- and much better than that of uninsured Americans, many of whom never receive needed care at all. 
 And the French manage to provide arguably the best health care in the world, without significant waiting lists of any kind. There's a scene in ''Sicko'' in which expatriate Americans in Paris praise the French system. According to the hard data they're not romanticizing. It really is that good.
 All of which raises the question Mr. Moore asks at the beginning of ''Sicko'': who are we?
 ''We have always known that heedless self-interest was bad morals; we know now that it is bad economics.'' So declared F.D.R. in 1937, in words that apply perfectly to health care today. This isn't one of those cases where we face painful tradeoffs -- here, doing the right thing is also cost-efficient. Universal health care would save thousands of American lives each year, while actually saving money.
 So this is a test. The only things standing in the way of universal health care are the fear-mongering and influence-buying of interest groups. If we can't overcome those forces here, there's not much hope for America's future. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MEDICARE (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (71%); INSURANCE (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: NEIL CAVUTO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007



172 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE WEEK AHEAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 216 words

 BODY:
QUARTERLY REPORTS Earnings season begins in earnest with the second-quarter report of Alcoa on Monday. Other earnings: Chevron and Pepsi Bottling, on Tuesday; Genentech and Yum Brands on Wednesday; Marriott and Nordstrom, on Thursday; and General Electric, on Friday. 
 ECONOMIC DATA A snapshot of the retailing sector emerges with reports on same-store sales for June (Thursday) and the government's report on retail sales for June (Friday). Other reports: May consumer credit (Monday); May wholesale trade (Tuesday); the trade deficit for May (Thursday); and May business inventories, June import prices and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index (Friday).
 INFLATION VIEWSBen S. Bernanke will give a speech on inflation on Tuesday at the National Bureau of Economic Research Monetary Economics Summer Institute in Cambridge, Mass. 
 MERGER VOTES shareholders of C.B.O.T. Holdings will vote on Monday on a merger with the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, which raised its bid on Friday. On Thursday, shareholders of Lear will vote on an offer of $36 a share by Carl C. Icahn, left.
 INTEREST RATES The Bank of Japan will end a two-day meeting on Thursday and announce a decision about interest rates.
 DELIBERATIONS The jury in the Black trial will continue its deliberations.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 10, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The Week Ahead column in Business Day yesterday, about the calendar of economic news, misidentified the report to be released on Thursday by Nordstrom. The company is releasing monthly sales data on that day -- not its quarterly earnings report, which will be released on Aug. 16.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); SAME STORE SALES (79%); RETAIL SALES (79%); INVENTORIES (79%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (79%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); CONSUMER LENDING (75%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); INTEREST RATES (65%); JURY TRIALS (64%); IMPORT PRICES (54%); TALKS & MEETINGS (50%)

COMPANY: YUM! BRANDS INC (58%); ALCOA INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); CME GROUP INC (56%); BANK OF JAPAN (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (56%)

TICKER: YUM (NYSE) (58%); AAI (ASX) (58%); AA (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); CME (NASDAQ) (56%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%); CARL ICAHN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007



173 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: Voters Excited Over '08 Race; Tired of It, Too

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY. 
Ben Werschkul contributed reporting from Iowa and Pennsylvania, Ana Facio Contreras from California and Lynn Waddell from Florida.

DATELINE: NARBERTH, Pa., July 6 

 BODY:
Kathy Hubbard likes politics, is delighted with the field of Democratic presidential candidates and considers the 2008 presidential race the most exciting -- and important -- in years. 
 But she raised an arm in frustration as she cringed at the barrage of images and information that the contest throws at her every day.
 ''It's too soon,'' Ms. Hubbard, a creative writing teacher, said as she walked up the street of this trim Philadelphia suburb, her two young daughters and a dog in tow. ''I don't ever remember it starting this early. It's bizarre. It's a shame that I have to begin paying attention to the presidential race now.''
 Ms. Hubbard is hardly alone in her sentiments. In dozens of interviews across the country, voters said the presidential campaign had become much too intense, much too soon. 
 It is not unusual for Americans to profess irritation at campaigns that they say start too soon. But the sentiment this year appears notably different -- and in some ways more complex -- than in the past, reflecting the early start to the race, its intensity and, perhaps most of all, a sense in both parties that the country is ready to move beyond the Bush administration.
 In interview after interview, voters said they felt overwhelmed by the battle for their attention: the speeches, the attacks, the unceasing news coverage of celebrity candidates, and a fund-raising free-for-all that many described as unseemly. 
 They worry that the public will lose interest in this contest before a single voter steps into the polls and that the bustle of this supercharged environment is crowding out lesser-known contenders. They are concerned that a race careering along at this pace does not give candidates time to listen and learn from voters, explore new issues and evolve.
 But while voters from both parties in many places across the country said they were flinching at the onslaught of this early politicking, they certainly were not disengaged. Many suggested they were eager for the arrival of Election Day and, with it, a change in the White House and in policy at home and abroad.
 Colleen Gallagher, a high school teacher in Narberth, said: ''People are going to have burnout, they are going to be just sick of hearing about it. It's like, enough already.'' 
 Ms. Gallagher then proceeded to slip eagerly into an lively and informed 20-minute conversation about the race. 
 Those crosscurrents highlight a challenge for the large field of candidates: how to harness the energy coming from an electorate ready for a change without overloading it too soon. 
 In the Studio City section of Los Angeles, Ed Wood, 34, an independent voter, said that ''we're being forced, dragged to pay attention.'' Mr. Wood added: ''It's a really important election. It's going to be a reaction against the current president.''
 The sense that voters were ready to turn the page on Mr. Bush was reflected even in interviews with some Republicans. 
 ''I did vote for him twice, but I'm very disappointed in him,'' said Kathy Shaffer, an elementary school teacher from Clear Lake, Iowa. ''I have switched completely from pro-Iraq to 'I want them home.' I'm afraid Bush is not going to be able to do anything because of this Iraqi war.''
 David Labowitz, an insurance salesman here, said he voted for Mr. Bush in 2004 and was eager for the next election to come along so he could rectify what he called his mistake. ''I am a registered Republican,'' Mr. Labowitz said, ''but I am so embarrassed to be a registered Republican.''
 The candidates are drawing full-house crowds, from small Iowa living rooms to rallies in big parks. Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, reported last week that 258,000 people had contributed to his campaign; the leading presidential candidates have raised about $245 million, much of that in small donations. 
 Almost without exception, in interviews and in public polls, Americans say they consider this race vitally important and are paying attention to what is going on. 
 ''You've got to,'' Mr. Labowitz said. ''American has got some real issues, and we're wasting a lot of time.'' 
 Even Ms. Hubbard, as overwhelmed as she said she was by the race, said there might be some benefits. ''You do have some time to process information, because there is a lot of information out there,'' she said, adding, ''Maybe I'll be able to make a better and more informed choice.''
 The responses suggest the challenges candidates face in trying to break from the pack and appeal to voters. In interviews, voters were usually able to volunteer certain candidates' names (think Clinton and Obama), but from there, lapsed into hazy guesses about who the candidates were and what they stood for. 
 ''You just keeping hearing about the big names,'' Ms. Gallagher said. ''When Fred Thompson and those other names come up, I couldn't tell you the first thing about them.''
 Barri Iskin, a social worker in Philadelphia, said: ''It kind of actually sounds all the same after a while. It's hard to really focus on anything specifically.''
 These sentiments were evident not only in places like Pennsylvania -- a vital swing state in the general election, but one that has not yet seen much of the candidates or their commercials -- but also in Iowa, where for the last week it was hard to turn a corner, pick up a newspaper or turn on the television without encountering a presidential candidate. 
 ''I'm afraid we are going to get tired of all this hoop-de-la,'' Ms. Shaffer said as she settled into a lawn chair along the route of an Independence Day Parade in Clear Lake, jostling for ground in a crowd drawn by Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton (and husband), Mitt Romney, the Massachusetts Republican, and other candidates. ''It is too much for too long. You get tired of it. You put mute on the commercials. I've heard them already. We're not ready to vote yet.
 ''And there's so much money involved,'' she continued.
 Bernice Jennings, standing at the edge of a rally for Mr. Obama in Mount Pleasant, Iowa, said, ''If I was making the rules, I'd say you've got six months to campaign.''
 It is a measure of just how overwhelming things are that even in Iowa voters say they are having trouble figuring out, well, who's on first. Iowans could see in person (or on television) Mrs. Clinton; Mr. Obama; Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Delaware Democrat; Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat; Senator Sam Brownback, the Kansas Republican; and Mr. Romney. 
 ''They are just jumbled up all over the place,'' said Terry Lentz, a retired insurance company executive watching the Clear Lake parade. ''You can't keep track: whether it's a Republican or a Democrat, you don't know who is on one side or the other. You have Republicans that are sounding like Democrats and Democrats way on the conservative side. I want to wait another six months until this thing is washed out.''
 Candidates are typically working hard at this point in a presidential campaign cycle. But they are normally flying at a much lower altitude, little noticed outside places like Iowa and New Hampshire. The wide-open field on both sides, the presence of candidates with star power and a nominating calendar with the holding of votes early in the year by a lot more states has accounted for this shift that voters are noting. 
 And the focus on money has elevated this race even more, even as it adds to the unease among voters. ''You hear more about how much they raise each month than you do about their policies,'' said Drew Johnson, who owns a tavern here in Narberth. ''So it's coming down to special-interest money that is supporting these candidates.''
 In Philadelphia, Donna Braff, 42, who said she was unemployed, said: ''When I think about all the millions that are going to be spent -- if only we had that kind of money to fix the school system.'' 
 Some voters said they would take their time and pay attention when they were ready to pay attention.
 ''I want to wait until we get closer to the election,'' said Tekeytha Fulwood, 28, a nurse in Philadelphia. ''I want to make sure there is consistency. The main thing I want to do is observe.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''I'm afraid we are going to get tired of all this hoop-de-la,'' said Kathy Shaffer, an elementary school teacher from Clear Lake, Iowa. ''It is too much for too long.You get tired of it. You put mute on the commercials.''(Photograph by Keith Bedford for The New York Times)(pg. A12)
 Drew Johnson, who owns a tavern in Narberth, Pa., says more focus is on money than policies. Tekeytha Fulwood, 28, a nurse in Philadelphia, says she wants to wait until closer to the election to make a choice. (Photographs by Mike Mergen for The New York Times)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007



174 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: Increasing Rate Of Foreclosures Upsets Atlanta

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

DATELINE: ATLANTA 

 BODY:
Despite a vibrant local economy, Atlanta homeowners are falling behind on mortgage payments and losing their homes at one of the highest rates in the nation, offering a troubling glimpse of what experts fear may be in store for other parts of the country.
 The real estate slump here and elsewhere is likely to worsen, given that most of the adjustable rate mortgages written in the last three years will be reset with higher interest rates, said Christopher F. Thornberg, an economist with Beacon Economics in Los Angeles. As a result, borrowers of an estimated $800 billion in loans will be forced in the next 12 months to 18 months to make bigger monthly payments, refinance or sell their homes.
 A big reason the fallout is occurring faster here is a Georgia law that permits lenders to foreclose on properties more quickly than in other states. The problems include not just people losing their homes, but also sharp declines in property values, particularly in lower-income and working-class neighborhoods.
 For example, a three-bedroom house near Turner Field, where the Atlanta Braves baseball team plays, fetched a high bid late last month of $134,000 at an auction by the bank that took possession of it. Almost three years ago, the new home was bought for $330,000. 
 While the surge in foreclosures in other big cities like Cleveland, New Orleans and Detroit can be attributed to local economic challenges, Atlanta more closely reflects the nation. Its unemployment rate, 4.9 percent in May, is low and close to the national average of 4.5 percent. And businesses here are adding jobs, albeit at a slower pace than they were last year.
 Like others across the country, homeowners here took out aggressive mortgages in the last few years when interest rates were low and housing prices were soaring. Now many are falling behind -- some have lost jobs or experienced other financial difficulties, but many others are not able to refinance because their homes are worth less than they paid for them and their credit is now too weak for them to qualify for another loan.
 So far, the pain has been limited to those on the financial margins, but as more loans are reset to higher rates and home prices continue to slide, more homeowners will be unable to meet rising payments or to refinance. ''This is a process that is starting low and will go high,'' said Mr. Thornberg, the economist in Los Angeles.
 Atlanta also serves as a microcosm for some broader national trends: wages have been stagnant for much of this decade, homeowners have taken on record amounts of debt, and mortgage fraud has been on the rise.
 ''We are a very affordable place,'' said Mike Alexander, the chief of research at the Atlanta Regional Commission, an organization that serves local governments. ''But our incomes are very low, and if anything went wrong, it would be very hard for people to maintain their homes.''
 An estimated 2.7 percent of all housing units in the region were in foreclosure at the end of last year, up from 1.1 percent in 2000, according to an analysis by the commission. Nationally, less than 1 percent of all housing units were in foreclosure, according to data from the Mortgage Bankers Association and the Census Bureau.
 Though Atlanta has added jobs in recent years, they pay less than the jobs the region lost after the technology boom of the late 1990s ended. The median household income was only 7.6 percent higher in 2005 than in 2000, according to the Census Bureau. That is about half the rate of inflation during that period, and it mirrors what has occurred nationally. 
 While wages have languished, average Atlanta families are shouldering more debt. As of March, residents had bigger credit card balances, mortgages and car loans relative to their income than average Americans, according to data compiled by Moody'sEconomy.com. And the equity that Atlanta residents have in their homes -- the value of their house minus what they owe -- has dropped 14 percent since peaking in late 2005.
 By comparison, in California -- the state where mortgage lending was most aggressive, real estate prices climbed fastest and homeowners have the highest debt burdens -- home equity values have dropped about 10 percent from their peak in 2005. 
 Georgia's foreclosure laws have also accelerated a process that can drag on for months in legal proceedings in other states. Lenders can declare a borrower in default and reclaim a house in as little as 60 days. 
 ''Because of the foreclosure laws, it may be that people go from delinquency into foreclosure much more quickly in Georgia,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com.
 That still would not explain why so many people fall behind on house payments in the first place. 
 At the end of March, 6 percent of all mortgages in Georgia were more than 30 days past due, the fourth-highest rate in the nation, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. Mississippi, Louisiana and Michigan had more loans past due.
 Rajeev Dhawan, an economics professor at Georgia State University, has started studying the characteristics of loans on homes that are in foreclosure. His preliminary analysis of data from April shows that nearly half were for adjustable rate mortgages and many were issued in the last two years. 
 ''Everybody thought if the home prices kept going up, the lenders will keep refinancing you,'' he said.
 In recent years, industry groups and law enforcement agencies have also cited Atlanta for being home to some aggressive mortgage fraud schemes. It may have been an easier target because the prices of homes in the same neighborhood can vary greatly here, making it easier to inflate appraisals.
 Auctions for a dozen homes conducted one day in late June across the Atlanta area -- from gritty inner-city neighborhoods to the affluent suburb of Marietta -- provide a window into how the real estate slump is playing out here.
 The most prized property on offer that day was a stately four-bedroom brick home in Marietta that sits on a tree-covered lot measuring three-quarters of an acre. It fetched a high bid of $646,000, about $60,000 more than the last mortgage on the property. More than 200 people turned up at the auction, and the winning bidders were a young couple, Cameron and Jamie Clayton, who are expecting a second child this year.
 ''I wouldn't say it is a steal,'' said Mr. Clayton, who is an executive at The Weather Channel. ''We paid the same price we would have paid on the market, maybe more.''
 But about 25 miles south, an auction for the three-bedroom home near Turner Field produced a starkly different result. Corey Neureuther, a 29-year-old accountant, was the winning bidder. He said it was his first real estate investment and he was surprised that others did not bid the price up at the auction, which drew about 30 people. Having recently moved to Atlanta from New York, he said he became interested in buying property after learning about foreclosures in the area.
 ''I thought for sure it would sell for $200,000 plus,'' he said. Mr. Neureuther said he thought that he could make money by renting out the house.
 Stephanie Calhoun, the former owner of the home, could not be reached for comment. Property records show she took out two loans to finance 100 percent of the purchase price. She borrowed the money from Ownit Mortgage Solutions, a California company that sought bankruptcy protection in December after many of its customers defaulted on their loans. Investors who bought bonds backed by Ownit loans will bear the loss on her home.
 Dean Williams, the president of Williams & Williams, the firm that conducted the auctions, saidresults of the sales in Atlanta and elsewhere in the country showed that real estate prices were inflated during the recent boom, especially in less affluent areas.
 ''When you find out what the market price really is, it can be a joke,'' said Mr. Williams, whose family-owned firm is based in Tulsa, Okla.
 Economists say auctions are generally the most efficient way to determine prices. But only about 1 percent of residential real estate sold in the country last year by dollar value was auctioned.
 Most sellers still list homes and wait until they get an offer close to their asking price. At the end of March, 2.8 percent of all owner-occupied homes nationally were vacant and for sale, up from 1.8 percent at the start of 2005. That is the highest vacancy rate in the 51 years the Census Bureau has been tracking it. 
 But as more homes end up in the hands of banks and trustees for mortgage bonds -- who are typically looking to minimize losses -- auctions may play a bigger role.
 Mark Rollins bought a house southwest of downtown Atlanta for $78,000 at one of the Williams & Williams auctions. The property sold for $255,000 in summer 2004. Mr. Rollins, who is a Realtor, said he planned to live in the house for a couple of years, fix it up and resell it for $150,000 when the market recovered. 
 Why did the house sell for so much more in 2004? Mr. Rollins has a simple theory: ''The market was hot, the interest rates were low, and they were giving all kinds of deals to people.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: An auctioneer for William & Williams sought bids last month for a distressed or foreclosed home in Stone Mountain, Ga., not far from Atlanta. (Photograph by Jessica McGowan for The New York Times)(pg. A15) Charts: ''A Slumping Market'' Home prices soared in Atlanta during the recent real estate boom, peaking in mid-2006. Now, defaults and foreclosures are increasing as homeowners contend with rising house payments. (Source: Case-Shiller indexes, Atlanta Regional Commission/Equity Depot)(pg. A15) Chart shows a line graph and a bar graph 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); TRENDS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); BASEBALL (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); JOB CREATION (69%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007



175 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: Battle Takes Shape Over Expansion of Children's Insurance

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 8 

 BODY:
The fight over a popular health insurance program for children is intensifying, with President Bush now leading efforts to block a major expansion of the program, which is a top priority for Congressional Democrats.
 The seemingly uncontroversial goal of insuring more children has become the focus of an ideological battle between the White House and Congress. The fight epitomizes fundamental disagreements over the future of the nation's health care system and the role of government. 
 Democrats have proposed a major expansion of the program, the State Children's Health Insurance Program, to cover more youngsters with a substantial increase in federal spending. 
 Administration officials have denounced the Democratic proposal as a step toward government-run health care for all. They said it would speed the erosion of private insurance coverage. And they oppose two of the main ideas contemplated by Democrats to finance expanded coverage for children: an increase in the federal tobacco tax and cuts in Medicare payments to private insurance companies caring for the elderly. 
 White House objections to the Democratic plan are ''philosophical and ideological,'' said Allan B. Hubbard, assistant to the president for economic policy. In an interview, he said the Democrats' proposal would move the nation toward ''a single-payer health care system with rationing and price controls.'' 
 Democrats said the insurance program, created 10 years ago with bipartisan support, had improved access to care for millions of children and sharply reduced the number who were uninsured. Democratic leaders in both houses of Congress -- with support from doctors, consumer groups and many state officials -- want to increase enrollment in the program, which served 7.4 million people at some time in the last year.
 ''We expect a showdown on the Senate floor at the end of this month,'' said James P. Manley, a spokesman for the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada. ''The program, which has enjoyed broad bipartisan support, is under assault by right-wing Republicans.''
 State officials fear that the conflict in Washington could lead to an impasse.
 ''I am getting more and more nervous about the future of the program,'' said Judith Arnold, director of the Children's Health Insurance Program in New York.
 In California, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, said it was ''absolutely essential'' that Congress renew and expand the program. Like many Democrats, he said Congress should increase spending by $50 billion over the next five years -- the amount decried by Mr. Bush as ''a massive expansion.''
 Several Republican senators said they would work with the White House to prevent a major expansion of the program.
 John Hart, a spokesman for Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, said Mr. Coburn saw the Democratic plan as ''part of an effort to bring everyone into a socialized health care system, a clarion call for Hillary Care, part two,'' referring to the Clinton administration plan for universal coverage. Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, shared that view.
 In a June 28 memorandum, House Democratic leaders said they hoped that providing coverage for more children would be ''the signature Democratic health achievement'' of this Congress. But, they predicted, ''The administration will battle us every step of the way.'' The memorandum was sent by Representatives John D. Dingell of Michigan, Frank Pallone Jr. of New Jersey, Charles B. Rangel of New York and Pete Stark of California.
 Bush administration officials recently advised drug company executives not to support a major expansion of the program.
 The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, a trade group, has been running television and newspaper advertisements that praise the program and urge Congress to renew it. The television advertisements show children cavorting on a playground and singing a jingle, ''If you're healthy and you know it, clap your hands.''
 The drug industry has joined four organizations in a coalition to whip up support for the program. The coalition, Americans for Children's Health, was incorporated last month and has a budget of several million dollars, mostly for advertising. Directors include lobbyists from the American Health Care Association, which represents nursing homes; the American Medical Association; Families USA, a liberal-leaning nonprofit consumer group; and the Federation of American Hospitals, which represents for-profit hospitals.
 Mr. Hubbard said such groups ''would be making a huge mistake to support expansion of the Children's Health Insurance Program'' along the lines proposed by Democrats.
 In an interview, Michael O. Leavitt, the secretary of health and human services, said he had conveyed the administration's concerns to Billy Tauzin, the president of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, and Kevin W. Sharer, the chief executive of Amgen and chairman of the trade association.
 The federal government spends $5 billion a year on the children's insurance program. If spending continues at that level, it would total $25 billion over five years. Congress has adopted a budget blueprint providing up to $50 billion more, for a total of $75 billion over five years. That dwarfs the $5 billion increase over five years proposed by Mr. Bush in February.
 The Congressional Budget Office estimated that enrollment in the program would ''fall to 6.7 million'' under the president's proposal. 
 In recent days, the Bush administration has taken several steps to slow momentum for expansion of the program:
 The Department of Health and Human Services has tried to redefine the magnitude of the problem by issuing a new study that says one million uninsured children are already eligible for Medicaid or the children's insurance program. Previous estimates by private researchers and government experts put the number at more than 5 million.
 Regional directors of the department have sent identical letters to newspapers, warning against ''a government takeover of the health care marketplace.'' 
 Administration officials said Congress should include the president's proposal to change the tax treatment of employer-sponsored health benefits as part of any legislation to renew the children's insurance program.
 In his 2008 budget request, Mr. Bush proposed replacing virtually all of the current tax breaks for health insurance with a new standard deduction for any taxpayer who buys a qualifying health plan. House Democratic leaders have flatly rejected the proposal. Senate Democratic leaders have said it has no place in a bill to cover children.
 To return the children's insurance program to what he calls ''its original intent,'' Mr. Bush has asked Congress to reduce federal payments to the states for coverage of children in families with incomes of more than twice the poverty level. (A family of four is considered poor if its annual income is less than $20,650.) At least 18 states cover children with family incomes more than twice the poverty level.
 In Indiana, Gov. Mitch Daniels, a Republican who was Mr. Bush's first budget director, recently signed a bill into law that raised the ceiling to 300 percent of the poverty level, from 200 percent.
 The New York State Legislature recently approved a proposal by Gov. Eliot Spitzer, a Democrat, to increase the eligibility limit to 400 percent of the poverty level.
 Mr. Leavitt said it was absurd that ''families making over $81,000 a year would have children eligible for public assistance.''
 Mr. Bush and some Republicans in Congress worry that as public coverage becomes available to families with higher incomes, it tends to replace private coverage. 
 In a recent report, the Congressional Budget Office said that for every 100 children who get public coverage as a result of the children's insurance program, ''there is a corresponding reduction in private coverage of between 25 and 50 children.''
 That increases the cost of efforts to expand coverage, according to the budget office, because the government inevitably picks up some people who recently had private insurance when it tries to sign up the uninsured. Thus, the budget office said, to reduce the number of uninsured children by three million, states may need to add four million to six million children to the rolls.
 Peter R. Orszag, director of the budget office, said that other efforts to expand coverage -- for example, by offering tax breaks for buying private insurance -- faced a similar challenge: some benefits would go to people who already had coverage.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush has opposed the Congressional Democrats' proposals to substantially increase the State Children's Health Insurance Program. (Photograph by Mandel Ngan/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); JUVENILE LIFE INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH CARE RATIONING (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INSURANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); HARRY REID (58%); TOM COBURN (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007



176 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Amid Fanfare, Boeing Unveils New Long-Distance Jet

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: EVERETT, Wash., July 8 

 BODY:
Step aside Steve Jobs. You, too, ''Ratatouille.'' In a nation where pocket-thin technology and Hollywood movies have hyped their way to consumer obsession, an unlikely rival for the public imagination is trying to restore a retro literalness, and largeness, to the art of the product rollout.
 On Sunday, before nearly 15,000 employees and worldwide customers in a hangar here in this Seattle suburb, with 25,000 others watching remotely from a football stadium downtown, Boeing unveiled the 787 Dreamliner, its new long-distance, fuel-efficient jet, which already has $110 billion worth of orders for 677 planes. 
 The arrival of the new plane -- stuck together partly with temporary fasteners at the moment and scheduled for its first delivery next May -- highlights what a striking counterpoint this part of the Northwest has been in a country where manufacturing jobs have long been in decline. The jet was presented on July 8, 2007 -- 7-8-7 -- with no shortage of corporate sheen.
 ''We're rolling her in, not out,'' said Yvonne Leach, who has spent much of the last year coordinating publicity for Boeing for the plane's debut. The smooth-sided, $155 million mix of carbon fiber and global subcontracting had a path to production that bears little resemblance to Boeing's earlier locally produced aluminum planes, including the 747 jumbo jet first presented nearby nearly 40 years ago. The 787 is being assembled here, but many of its key parts were made around the world, a fact that has not gone over well with some local workers. Boeing says the new business model is necessary for the company to survive and reflects its increasingly global focus. 
 For Western Washington, where aerospace employees have experienced a roller coaster of layoffs and hiring surges, the run-up to the 787 production has pushed aerospace employment close to 80,000 this year, adding another piece of good news to a region accustomed to growth in high-technology, cargo shipping, alternative energy and other areas.
 ''We're in the sweet spot,'' said Michael J. Parks, who edits Marple's Pacific Northwest Letter, a biweekly economic update. ''We're out of step with the national trends. We've got manufacturing jobs going up.''
 On Saturday, Boeing announced that Air Berlin, a German carrier, had ordered 25 of the planes, worth $4 billion. The Aviation Lease and Finance Company of Kuwait, which had already ordered 12, ordered 10 more. Qantas Airways, the Australian airline, said on Friday it would increase its order to 65 from 45 and retained options on 20 more.
 Long before Microsoft, Amazon and Starbucks revised Seattle's identity as a new-economy city, Boeing was the new economy of an earlier era, and it was the region's dominant employer. Aerospace remains a major force, but where it once supplied 1 in 10 jobs in the state, it now makes up less than 3 percent. 
 Over the weekend, Boeing played host to journalists from Vietnam, Japan, New Zealand and France. On Sunday, it broadcast the 787 debut in nine languages. Many of the guests of honor represented international airlines, including ANA, whose order for 50 new planes was the first the company received.
 Here in Everett, in the cavernous hangar where the new plane rolled into public view to its own galloping theme music, an escort of flight attendants from international airlines and a roar of ''oohs,'' Robert Cleveland, a machinist who said he has worked at Boeing for 25 years, sat near the stage. 
 Mr. Cleveland said he needed no convincing of the new business model, even though he had been laid off once by Boeing before being rehired. He grew up in Massachusetts, he said, surrounded by shuttered factories. 
 ''I remember seeing that when I was a kid,'' said Mr. Cleveland, who helps test the composite materials on the new aircraft. ''And I'm sure glad it's not happening here.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Boeing 787 Dreamliner, a long-distance, fuel-efficient jet, is unveiled before nearly 15,000 guests in Everett, Wash., a Seattle suburb.
 The new jet, which uses 20 percent less fuel per passenger than similarly sized airplanes, is scheduled for its first delivery next May. (Photographs by Stuart Isett for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ECONOMY (89%); AIRLINES (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); FILM (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); TRENDS (68%); LAYOFFS (56%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (94%); AVIATION LEASE & FINANCE CO KSCC (80%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%); QANTAS AIRWAYS LTD (51%); AIR BERLIN PLC & CO LUFTVERKEHRS KG (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (94%); BAB (BRU) (94%); BA (NYSE) (94%); ALAFCO (KUW) (80%); ALMUDON (KUW) (51%); QAN (ASX) (51%); AB1 (FRA) (51%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (94%); NAICS532411 COMMERCIAL AIR, RAIL & WATER TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (80%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%); NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (51%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (95%); WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (77%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007



177 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: A Perpetual All-Star Lends His Name and Sense of Hope

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

DATELINE: San Francisco 

 BODY:
 The most significant aspect of tomorrow's All-Star Game is that it will bring the great Willie Mays clearly and perhaps more consistently into national view. Willie Mays is a national treasure and a state of mind.
 He was a part-time first baseman on his daddy's steel mill team at 9, a pro by 13, a baseball icon by 30 and a Hall of Famer by 48. 
 Willie Mays, at 76, is living history, telling us much about where we have been as a nation, where we are and where we are going.
 In anticipation of the All-Star festivities, the Giants, with a gorgeous park and a controversial superstar, wisely decided that Mays would be the centerpiece of the celebration. He will be honored before the game tomorrow. That morning, as part of the acknowledgment, the Giants will dedicate the Willie Mays Boys & Girls Club of Hunters Point. 
 Center stage is not where Mays necessarily likes to be. But at a time when profits in baseball are racing ahead of the game's sense of its own history, Mays needs to be out front as a symbol of the uninhibited pursuit of joy that his career represents.
 I'd never visited Hunters Point until last week, when I toured the Boys & Girls Club facility with Mays. Hunters Point or Bayview Hunters Point, is a predominately African-American area in the southeastern portion of San Francisco, although with gentrification, the black population is shrinking. Nearly a third of San Francisco's hazardous waste sites are here, and the community has a 30 percent unemployment rate. Gang violence is a persistent threat, keeping the faith a constant challenge. The Willie Mays Boys & Girls Club, with its ambitious multimillion-dollar renovation, will be an oasis.
 ''This is a community that, through the years, has really been dealt a bad hand with promises, people coming in and making change, a lot of social groups taking advantage of funding,'' said James Holley, the director of the club. ''The kids in this community really got left out in the cold. I think right now with gentrification taking place, the neighborhood is worried again that, with all the beautiful views and things that are taking place, this area won't be theirs 20 years from now.''
 For now, the center is theirs. If one life can be saved or one soul salvaged, if the switch can be turned on in one person's life, if the center can be a catalyst for someone to become the Willie Mays of medicine or law, then it will have served its purpose.
 ''All these kids, they're going to have a chance to play,'' Mays said as he looked around the cavernous gymnasium. ''I hope they put some computers here for education. It's not all about baseball, or sports. It's all about getting out of here with education and moving on.''
 It's fitting that the Giants chose baseball's All-Star Game as the backdrop for its celebration of Mays. The game was his personal stage. Mays was an All-Star for 20 consecutive seasons, from 1954 to 1973. 
 ''I loved to play in the All-Star Game,'' Mays said. ''It was a fun thing for us. We didn't get bonuses like these kids do; I really didn't play for the money, anyway. I wanted to play to win, and I was a guy who played nine innings. I didn't want the American League beating me.''
 Referring to his favorite All-Star outfield, when he could play with Hank Aaron and Roberto Clemente, he added: ''We had three guys -- Hank, Clemente and myself -- all guys who would play in the outfield until we won the game. When we got four or five runs up, then they'd take us out.''
 I asked Mays what happened if the manager tried to take him out the game. He looked at me as if I'd lost my mind. ''No, no, no, no, noooo,'' Mays said.
 I forgot. He was a nine-innings man. 
 In one All-Star Game, Manager Walter Alston asked Mays to fill out the lineup card. This was his batting order: Mays, Clemente, Aaron, then either Willie Stargell or Willie McCovey.
 Who batted fifth? I asked.
 ''After the fourth,'' Mays said, ''put anybody you want in there. It didn't matter.'' You have to love this. 
 And the kids at Hunters Point did. They knew the name Willie Mays, they felt his timeless spirit and they knew that he cared. 
 But when I asked him about the Boys & Girls Club as part of a legacy, Mays said: ''I'm not really looking at this, so far as a legacy. I want to do things while I can understand what it's all about. 
 ''I'm a guy, I like to see what I'm doing. I like to enjoy with the kids. I'm going to try to stay on top of this as long as I can. Hopefully they'll get it finished sometime next year and it'll be here for a long time.''
 Mays said he also planned to help renovate a baseball field in his hometown. ''I'm helping kids -- that's all it's about,'' he said. ''I try to help everybody. I try to help the black, the white, the green, the yellow. To me, they're all kids.''
 The most positive news from this year's All-Star festivities is that the great Willie Mays is coming back, clearly into view.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Willie Mays signing a shirt at the Willie Mays Boys & Girls Club in the Hunters Point section of San Francisco. (Photograph by Jim Wilson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); ATHLETES (72%); POPULATION DECLINE (68%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (64%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (64%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (57%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (52%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (83%); NEW YORK GIANTS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007



178 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LINK BY LINK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: In the Blink of a Byte, Future Becomes Past

BYLINE: By NOAM COHEN

 BODY:
The Internet can seem an all-knowing, mysterious oracle. Type in a question, hit a button and an answer magically appears. 
 Yet oracles earn their robes not for providing trivia (''Caesar, did you know that ''ides'' is a Latin term denoting half a month?''), but for predicting the future, however Delphically. And for a brief period recently, the Internet seemed to have crossed that threshold. 
 The backdrop was the bizarre tale of the professional wrestler Christopher Benoit who during one weekend last month killed his wife, Nancy, and later his son and himself. The police didn't find the bodies until Monday afternoon, June 25, but a Wikipedia entry on Mr. Benoit had reported his wife's death matter-of-factly 13 hours earlier. 
 Was there some error with the time stamped on the article? Was a witness choosing to speak under cover of anonymity? Or was the killer posting a final warning? Intriguingly, the IP address used to write the prophetic posting was traced to Stamford, Conn., which happens to be the home of World Wrestling Entertainment, the employer of Mr. Benoit.
 As a furor grew, the anonymous user of Wikipedia who posted the Nancy Benoit information (known by the IP address 69.120.111.23) came forward to say, ''I did the wrong thing by posting it on Wikipedia,'' adding, ''I was just as shocked as everyone when I heard that this actually would happen in real life.'' 
 The police nonetheless questioned that person. Investigators ''checked it out very thoroughly'' and concluded ''it was pure coincidence,'' said Lt. Belinda McCastle of the Sheriff's Department of Fayetteville, Ga., where the killings occurred. She declined to release the name of the owner of the IP address 69.120.111.23.
 The Benoit case, minus that part about predicting the future, isn't unique. There was the case of the film director and actress Adrienne Shelley, who was murdered in Greenwich Village last year. Editors at The New York Times were given a tip, and in the course of reading about her on Wikipedia (yes, newspaper editors read Wikipedia), saw that her death had already been listed. In fact, it was a full day later before the news became public knowledge, as we usually think of it. 
 The British newspaper The Guardian reported a similar experience in 2005, when editors there found the only confirmation of the death of the feminist writer Andrea Dworkin on Wikipedia. 
 Robin Hanson of George Mason University, an expert on using future markets to track public sentiment, said an e-mail exchange that these examples are hardly evidence of predicting the future. Rather, he suggested, it was ''a bit newspaper-centric to say that news has not broke 'publicly' if it is being discussed online in rumors but has not appeared in a newspaper.'' He added that ''with more and more kinds of media, there are more and more intermediate levels of info availability.''
 This is the crucial dividing line: between reporting on events in as close to real time as possible -- which can prove jarring to society, and journalists in particular, but hardly supernatural -- and predicting things around the bend.
 As the Benoit case and others show, it may be human nature to confuse the two. The classic grifter swindle portrayed in the 1973 movie ''The Sting'' fools its target by holding out the possibility of using the telegraph to ''predict'' horse-race results.
 But there are businesses that see the odds in getting information as close to real time as possible using Internet searches. At the core of this research is the hope of tapping into something intuitive about people -- the way some people believe animals sense an earthquake coming and scatter. 
 Bill Tancer, the general manager of Hitwise, a company that analyzes search results, calls the field ''searchonomics.'' Thus far, he has tested his theories in a manner that resembles so-called future markets -- which trade bets on future events like elections and sporting events -- by treating search requests as the equivalent of votes, or ''buys,'' and then adjusting for other factors. (The reality TV show ''Dancing With the Stars'' has been his unwitting laboratory -- to mixed results, he concedes.)
 But these tools can be used for weightier matters. Tracking searches of the word ''unemployment'' can provide clues to trends in the nation's unemployment rate, Mr. Tancer said. Likewise, Altos Research, a Silicon Valley start-up, collects and tracks millions of real estate listings to assess the housing market before the government releases its figures.
 This information serves a Wall Street function as ''closer to real time'' data for investors, said Michael Simonsen, Altos's president and chief executive. 
 ''We are really early in the predictive power of the Internet; financial markets are getting a hang of it,'' he says. ''We have miles to go in all the nuances in capturing information.'' 
 A more nuanced analysis was made by Mr. Tancer, who tracked searches in 2005 concerning avian flu. By comparing different terms, from the technical name ''H5N1'' to ''avian flu'' to the more basic ''bird flu'' he tried to show how a spike in interest first appeared among what he presumes was the scientific community (H5N1 searchers) and then quickly spread to the general public. 
 Armed with this insight, it may be easier to see when concern over a potential epidemic is going to ''go big.'' But these insights will be culled from millions of data points, not from single Wikipedia entries like the one for Mr. Benoit. 
 It is eerie to note, however, that the anonymous poster about Ms. Shelley's death had earlier in the year edited the Wikipedia entry about the so-called Butterfly Effect, the notion that a butterfly flapping its wings in China can influence the weather in Florida. It's as if that user -- 216.165.95.5 -- knew that someone typing something into a computer can influence an editor in a newsroom far away.
 Or it may have been a coincidence.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lonni Sue Johnson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); MURDER (75%); WITNESSES (75%); WRITERS (72%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); SHERIFFS (70%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); FILM DIRECTORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (55%); GEORGIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007



179 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: Difficult Choices for the Old Rec Center

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

 BODY:
For almost 40 years, the La Guardia recreation center, known in its Lower East Side neighborhood as the Whitehouse, has sat vacant -- abandoned in the middle of a densely populated high-rise public housing complex.
 The Parks Department said it has no plans to reopen the Whitehouse, in the La Guardia Houses complex, because it believes the neighborhood already has enough public and private recreational facilities. The same goes for a second abandoned recreation center near the Baruch Houses.
 The story of the Whitehouse demonstrates how policy has changed the way children play. The organized baseball, basketball and soccer leagues that now dominate youth sports often exclude children too poor to afford the required fees. And the onetime reliance on government has shifted to a dependence on private nonprofit groups.
 Parks Department officials acknowledged that the agency has largely ceded its role as the nation's preeminent provider of free youth recreational services. That role began in 1902 when the city assumed operations of Seward Park on the Lower East Side, which became the first municipally run playground in the United States, complete with staff members who worked with children and organized games and activities. 
 The change has been part of a larger cultural transformation. After-school programs run by nonprofit organizations -- many intended to boost test scores, children's advocacy organizations say -- have replaced purely recreational activities.
 ''There was a realization that there was a need that the Parks Department could not meet,'' said Adrian Benepe, the city parks commissioner. ''We need a more sophisticated model. The old model of counting on the Parks and Recreation Department to hand out basketballs at gyms ended sometime in the 1980s.''
 In 1978, the department spent $12.3 million on recreation programs; in the fiscal year that began July 1, the city appropriated $15.5 million to recreation -- about 5 percent of the Parks Department's $355.5 million budget. (The city would need to allocate more than $38 million in 2007 dollars to equal what it spent in 1978.)
 Further, since the late 1970s, the number of full-time recreation workers has fallen by more than 50 percent -- to 340 this year from 766 in 1978, according to city budget documents. 
 During that time, the century-old tradition of having Parks Department employees supervise children at playgrounds after school and on weekends has all but disappeared. The number of recreational supervisors dropped to 11 in 2005 from 86 in 1991, according to budget figures. (The Parks Department did not provide current data or a breakdown of the job categories of its recreation employees.)
 Mr. Benepe said the department now gives more emphasis to providing after-school tutoring for children and has established a series of environmental education programs and nature centers where the emphasis is not on physical activity.
 ''The new paradigm has shifted away from rec centers,'' said Mr. Benepe. ''Is there a need? Are they still needed in 2007? In 2010?''
 But some said the Parks Department's scaling back of traditional recreation programs was unfortunate, considering rising obesity in school-age children.
 Surveys by the City Department of Education in 2005 and 2006 found that 42 percent of Bronx elementary school students were overweight and 25 percent were considered obese. A 2005 Centers for Disease Control study found that 30 percent of Bronx high school students were overweight. 
 ''The infrastructure took a big hit during the fiscal crisis in the '70s and never really recovered,'' said Michelle Yanche, the director of the Neighborhood Family Services Coalition, a private nonprofit organization that represents advocacy groups and service providers. ''The growth in the past 10 years has not been on recreation, it has been on education; there is a real recognition that something has gone wrong because of the rising obesity rates.''
 Gail Nayowith, the executive director of the Citizens Committee for Children, a private nonprofit advocacy group, said that when the Parks Department ran the vast majority of the city's recreation programs, few private groups were doing similar work. 
 Ms. Nayowith said, however, that the current situation has led to gaps in services, especially in poor neighborhoods. Many private groups that offer recreational services, including the Y.M.C.A., typically charge membership fees.
 ''In places where we have concentrations of the poor and have significant economic disadvantage, we have to think about the need to accommodate the recreational and cultural needs of the community, especially in a city that has a $5 billion surplus,'' she said. ''The available park space and playground space is not distributed equally across neighborhoods. So while there is plenty to do, it still doesn't meet demand.''
 In 2002, the Parks Department began charging adults to use 22 of its formerly free recreation centers, and in 2006 extended the fees to its six remaining free centers, each in one of the city's poorest neighborhoods. The revenue, however, has fallen short of projections, in part because the new $50 to $75 annual charge for adults has led to a drop in adult attendance while the number of children, who are admitted free, has remained steady, according to city statistics. 
 In fiscal 2006, some 21,100 adults had memberships at recreation centers; after the fees were imposed at the six centers, the number fell to 11,500 within four months.
 The 28 recreation centers, which in some neighborhoods, according to people who use them, have the only dependable air conditioning during the summer (they are often used as ''cooling centers'' during heat waves), are generally closed Sundays and Saturdays after 4 p.m., and lines for the swimming pools can swell to several hundred.
 In some neighborhoods, the Parks Department has been trying to meet demand. The department announced in April that it would reopen within the next several years the McCarren Park swimming pool in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, which has been closed since 1984. It also plans to extend hours at the Metropolitan Pool, in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, and open a new recreation center in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens. And on Wednesday, it opened a floating pool on a barge moored off Brooklyn Heights.
 The department also plans to dispatch a ''mobile fitness van'' this summer to parts of Queens that it has identified as needing more recreational services.
 In the meantime, several public schools opened their playgrounds to children this month as part of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's PlaNYC initiative, which has the goal of eventually opening 290 playgrounds when schools are not in session. The initiative pointed out that 97 of 188 city neighborhoods, most of them poor, fail to meet the city's own standard of providing at least 1.5 acres of park space for every 1,000 people and one playground for every 1,250 children.
 Groups like the City Parks Foundation, an independent nonprofit group that offers recreation and arts programs in all five boroughs, and the Police Athletic League have also expanded their free programs for children this summer. 
 The P.A.L. now operates about the same number of recreation centers as the Parks Department: the league has 23 year-round youth centers and 28 other centers that operate only during the school year. The Parks Department operates 28 recreation centers, along with about 20 community centers and field houses that are open only part of the year.
 On the Lower East Side, residents said the front line of the battles against obesity and crime is to reopen the Whitehouse, which was locked behind a chain-link fence as children played in the crowded playgrounds around it.
 ''It's an affront to the community visually, but also an affront because it is telling the community that even though we have the money now and are not opening it, that they don't count,'' said Alan J. Gerson, the City Council member who represents the area. 
 Mr. Benepe said that no one aside from Mr. Gerson had expressed interest in reopening the Whitehouse, and that he had not recommended that it be demolished only because he did not want to ''ruin his impossible dream,'' referring to Mr. Gerson.
 But on an evening in June, some 80 people showed up outside the building to discuss why the recreation center was necessary. 
 Teenage basketball players said they had few options to play late into the evenings, after an outdoor court in the La Guardia Houses complex was closed when residents complained about noise. Officials from nearby Gouverneur Skilled Nursing Facility, Diagnosis and Treatment Center said they would like to use part of the Whitehouse for community health programs. Chinese immigrants said they wanted a safe place to play Ping-Pong. People who attend a nearby senior center said it was so crowded that they had to eat their meals in shifts. Elementary school children said other recreation centers were too far away and required them to cross busy streets. Police officers said gang problems in the area -- including several shootings in the past several weeks -- might be alleviated if there was a place for neighborhood children to go. 
 ''We would go to school, and come home and play there until supper time, and go home and eat, and come back until it closed,'' said Lucille Frazier, 72, who has lived in the La Guardia Houses for 50 years. ''A whole new generation is coming up that has nothing to do.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ricky Paling, 17, danced at St. Mary's recreation center in the Bronx as Dave Munoz, 16, sat and watched. Until last year, admission at St. Mary's was free for adults. At left, Kayla Ramos and Candice Lozada, both 13, after dance practice at St. Mary's. At right, Roberto Lockware, left, and Quincy Clarke in the St. Mary's pool.(Photographs by Christian Hansen for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Trees grow on the roof of an abandoned recreation center near the Baruch Houses. The city said it had no plans to demolish or restore it. (Photograph by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); POPULATION DENSITY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); YOUTH SPORTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (75%); BASKETBALL (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); BASEBALL (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (71%); APPROPRIATIONS (71%); SOCCER (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007



180 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: Journal Editor to Join a Magazine

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Ellen J. Pollock, a longtime top editor and writer for The Wall Street Journal, will leave after 18 years to become executive editor of BusinessWeek, the magazine will announce today. 
 For five years, Ms. Pollock has worked on The Journal's front page, most recently as deputy Page 1 editor, often handling the distinctive long-form articles that are a signature of The Journal. In that time, she has worked on two Pulitzer Prize-winning series -- one in 2003 on corporate scandals and another in 2005 on people living with cancer.
 Ms. Pollock, 52, started at The Journal in 1989 as an editor for legal affairs, and then spent years as a senior writer covering, among other things, the Whitewater real estate scandal. Before joining The Journal, she was the editor of Manhattan Lawyer magazine, and a writer at The American Lawyer magazine.
 On July 16, she will become the second-ranking editor at BusinessWeek, a leader in the crowded business magazine field. It is a weekly with domestic circulation of more than 900,000, similar to its competitors, Forbes and Fortune, which publish about half as often, and well ahead of The Economist. BusinessWeek is planning a redesign this fall. 
 This will be Ms. Pollock's third stint working with Stephen J. Adler, BusinessWeek's editor in chief, who was also a colleague years ago at The Journal, and in the 1980s at The American Lawyer.
 ''I always thought I'd go back to magazines, and I was interested in working with Steve again,'' Ms. Pollock said.
 She is the author of two books, ''The Pretender: How Martin Frankel Fooled the Financial World and Led the Feds on One of the Most Publicized Manhunts in History,'' and ''Turks and Brahmins: Upheaval at Milbank, Tweed: Wall Street's Gentlemen Take Off Their Gloves.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (75%); LAWYERS (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); SCANDALS (70%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (69%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); MILBANK TWEED HADLEY & MCCLOY LLP (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007



181 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Getting Your Shows on the Road

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
One of the perks of travel used to be enjoying amenities you did not have at home: watching HBO in your hotel room, for instance, or catching an in-flight movie before there was such a thing as VCRs.
 But sometime during the digital revolution, consumers' home entertainment technology began making the travel industry look as if it were stuck in an analog era, with most airlines showing bland films on tough-to-view overhead screens and hotels' television lineups disappointing guests accustomed to TiVo.
 While it is too early to say that the offerings have significantly changed, some companies are starting to compete with -- or at least cater to -- the average consumer's entertainment arsenal. In the hotel business, the race is on to upgrade guest rooms with high-definition flat-screen TVs, iPod docking stations and a wider selection of programming (preferably, available on demand). And some carriers are introducing personal entertainment systems that feature more movies, music and games, although these devices are offered mainly to business and first-class customers. 
 Analysts and executives say these improvements are part of a larger industry trend of making life on the road seem less alienated from life at home, particularly for business travelers. 
 ''All of this goes back to recognizing that customers want more control,'' said Henry H. Harteveldt, a vice president and travel analyst with Forrester Research, citing the expectations fostered by gadgets like iPods. ''At home, I have all this stuff created just the way I like it. Why should I have to sacrifice that when I'm on the road?''
 In the hotel industry, Mr. Harteveldt said, the competition to appeal to guest preferences has moved from bedding to technology, a necessary upgrade in an era of rising rates. 
 ''These days, I'm surprised when I walk into four- or five-star hotels and see traditional types of TVs,'' he said. ''If you're paying several hundred dollars a night, the expectation is that there should be a flat-screen TV in the room.''
 To some degree, various hotel chains have created that expectation by announcing plans to install newer televisions or better programming. But these upgrades can take years to introduce.
 For instance, Marriott International announced in February that it planned to offer 32-inch high-definition L.C.D. televisions in all guest rooms in the United States and Canada at three of its brands: Marriott, JW Marriott and Renaissance. So far, the new sets are available at 56 hotels and the installation will not be complete until the end of 2009.
 The new televisions come with at least 45 channels (up from 28 on current sets) and a connectivity panel so guests can plug in a music player, laptop or other device and work or play on the larger screen -- recognizing that that most everyone relies on technology to unwind.
 ''Twenty years ago, business travel was all about 'get there, get the work done and get out,' '' said John Wolf, a Marriott spokesman. ''What we're seeing is a paradigm shift more toward the 'lifestyle traveler.' ''
 According to industry research, the new breed of traveler is more likely to enjoy the benefits of business travel, like trying out new restaurants, but also more inclined to desire the comforts of home -- like 450-thread-count sheets or the ability to catch a favorite TV show at any time.
 Toward that end, Hilton recently opened a limited number of ''Sight and Sound'' rooms at two of its hotels, the Hilton Chicago O'Hare and the Hilton San Francisco. The rooms, which cost $20 more than regular rates, feature 42-inch high-definition TVs, a digital surround-sound system and a connectivity panel for other devices, as well as on-demand programming that includes sports packages and popular television shows.
 ''Say you get back to your room at 10:05 and you missed 'Grey's Anatomy,' '' said Kendra Walker, a Hilton spokeswoman. ''You can view that programming on demand literally a minute or two after it ends.''
 Hilton is also in the process of installing flat-screen TVs in all of its North American guest rooms, and it introduced a new clock in 2005 featuring an easy-to-set alarm and a connection cable for a portable music player.
 Often at the forefront of technology trends, W Hotels promises all of its rooms will have iPod docking stations by September and flat-screen TVs by the end of the year (80 percent of W's rooms currently have the newer televisions).
 Scott Petersen, chief executive of LodgeNet, which provides technology services to hotels, said the industry was moving toward offering guests a broader lineup of programming, movies sooner after their release and more on-demand options like the company's Hotel SportsNet service.
 ''If you're a Yankees fan and you're in Florida, you can watch the Yankees games as they're being broadcast,'' Mr. Petersen said. The sports service costs guests about $10 to $20 a day; pay-per-view movies are typically $11.
 While cash-short American airlines are generally not investing as much in entertainment technology, a few carriers are introducing in-flight systems, partly to keep up with their foreign competitors.
 For instance, Delta is introducing a new seatback system, Delta on Demand, that features 24 channels of live television, up to 28 films, 12 video games, more than 1,600 songs and 45 hours of HBO programming, including episodes of popular television shows. The system is now on 100 aircraft, including economy class on some planes. The live TV and games are free throughout the aircraft, although there are charges for some programs in coach.
 ''Our goal is that by the summer of 2008, anytime you get on a Delta airplane where the flight is more than four hours long you'll have this programming,'' said Joan Vincenz, Delta's managing director for global product development.
 Singapore Airlines, which operates some of the longest commercial flights, is introducing a free entertainment system featuring 1,004 on-demand music and video options, as well a suite of office applications that enable passengers to plug in a portable flash drive and work on their documents. James Boyd, a spokesman for the airline, said the goal was to give passengers the control they were used to on the ground.
 ''The more opportunity you have to start, stop or rewind the entertainment at your seat, the more of a sense of control you have over your experience, and our surveys show that creates a more satisfied passenger over all,'' he said.
 Rob Brookler, spokesman for the World Airline Entertainment Association, said more carriers are installing these types of on-demand systems, either at the seatback or as a stand-alone device, like the portable player American Airlines offers on some flights (albeit, primarily in first and business class).
 ''What passengers seem to want is choice, a wide selection and control over the system,'' he said. 
 The other thing passengers want -- connectivity -- may be on the horizon, although sooner on foreign carriers. ''What we're seeing is that data, meaning using your cellphone or P.D.A. for messaging, is moving along fairly quickly,'' Mr. Brookler said. ''The voice option is where there are regulatory issues -- and social ones.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Delta's seatback entertainment system has 24 channels of television and about 28 films. (Photograph by Robert Caplin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); LODGING (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRLINES (77%); TRENDS (75%); MUSIC (67%)

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (85%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (85%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (85%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007



182 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Myths Spun by Lax Lenders

 BODY:
Mortgage defaults are rising, and worse is yet to come. Between now and the end of next year, the interest rates on $660 billion in adjustable-rate mortgages will increase for the first time. Over half of that is in subprime loans -- those made to borrowers with weak credit -- and is at high risk of default as monthly payments rise. 
 In a display of too-little, too-late, federal regulators recently tightened lending standards, requiring what should be obvious: that banks have evidence of a borrower's ability to repay before making a loan. And yet lenders who hope to dodge even tougher oversight continue to defend reckless lending. Their arguments ring hollow on several counts. 
 Mortgage lenders often claim that subprime loans have allowed millions of Americans to buy a first home. But most subprime loans were for refinancing, not first-time purchases. And as defaults rise, foreclosures are projected to outnumber first-home purchases -- for a net loss of homeownership because of subprime lending -- according to the nonpartisan Center for Responsible Lending.
 Lenders also assert that borrowers with weak credit had no choice other than costly, adjustable-rate subprime loans. But testimony from Congressional hearings suggests otherwise. During the housing boom, borrowers who could have qualified for higher quality, fixed-rate loans were too often steered into dodgier loans. As rising defaults attest, complex loans have not benefited the borrowers. Rather, they met the lenders' desire for upfront fees and Wall Street's demand for loans to package into securities for sale to hedge fund clients. 
 Subprime defenders also assert that in the end, it's a borrower's responsibility to repay. Fine. Now let's talk about the lenders' responsibility. During the boom, many subprime lenders did not worry about being paid back over time, because they sold many of the loans to Wall Street. Those who made a lot of money on lousy loans don't stand to lose their houses now that the game is ending. 
 It's up to regulators and lawmakers to impose discipline when the market does not. The Federal Reserve, with authority over unfair and deceptive mortgages, should impose rules on all lenders -- banks and nonbanks -- deeming a mortgage unfair if it's issued without evidence of a borrower's ability to repay. Lenders should also be held to suitability standards, akin to the rules for stockbrokers. Brokers cannot recommend stocks that do not fit an investor's risk profile. Lenders should not be able to offer loans that do not fit a borrower's credit profile. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME LENDING (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); FORECLOSURE (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); SECURITIES BROKERS (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007



183 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1691 words

HEADLINE: A Maverick Of Industry In Canada

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: TORONTO 

 BODY:
Frank Stronach, the chairman of the auto parts maker Magna International, stood before shareholders at the company's annual meeting in May and, instead of discussing an offer he had put on the table for Chrysler, entered a debate in jest about who was more alluring to women, himself or his longtime aide, Manfred Gingl.
 The question was apparently resolved when Mr. Gingl kissed Belinda C. Stronach, Mr. Stronach's daughter, who is a member of Parliament, a former federal cabinet minister, the company's former chief executive and Mr. Gingl's successor as executive vice chairman. 
 ''He's a smooth operator,'' Mr. Stronach said after the kiss, his English still characterized by the accent of his native Austria. 
 The same cannot always be said of Mr. Stronach.
 While building North America's second-largest auto parts maker (after Delphi), which he founded 50 years ago, Mr. Stronach's imperial, and often mercurial, management style has both enriched and alienated shareholders, particularly when he has taken the company into unprofitable side ventures. And over the years Mr. Stronach has poured much of his energy into promoting frequently iconoclastic economic and political theories to an often mixed reception.
 ''He's sort of a genius and a bit of buffoon wrapped together,'' said Wayne Lilley, author of ''Magna Cum Laude,'' a biography of Mr. Stronach published last fall. ''This guy could be the most beloved businessman in Canada. But greed keeps pushing that aside.''
 His wealth is sometimes an issue in a country where fortunes are not always admired. He is among the highest paid businessmen in Canada, receiving $27.7 million in total compensation during 2006 from Magna, according to Equilar, a compensation research firm, far more than the $9.5 million General Motors paid Rick Wagoner, its chief executive.
 With the big paycheck comes audacious business moves. In 2007 alone, Mr. Stronach, who declined through a spokeswoman to be interviewed, made his unsuccessful bid for Chrysler, which also happens to be Magna's biggest customer.
 Even before the Chrysler decision was announced, Mr. Stronach surprised investors with another unexpected plan. He pitched to his shareholders a complex transaction that would effectively have him share control of Magna with a wealthy Russian investor, Oleg V. Deripaska.
 The idea that Russia will be the auto industry's next great frontier may not be universally shared. But just as controversial are provisions in the proposed deal that would give Mr. Stronach millions of dollars a year in additional dividends without expanding his relatively small shareholding in Magna, which started 50 years ago as a two-man machine shop.
 Mr. Stronach's early ambition to create something more than just another tool-and-die shop is what separated him from other skilled Europeans who immigrated to Canada during the 1950s. Within three years, Magna, known at the time as Multimatic Investments, had entered the business of making parts. It was a modest start: a metal sun visor bracket for General Motors of Canada.
 Dennis Mills, a former member of Parliament and staff member in the office of Prime Minister Pierre Elliot Trudeau, has worked for Mr. Stronach on and off since 1984. Today he is vice chairman of Magna Entertainment, the horse racing and gambling company indirectly controlled by Mr. Stronach.
 ''His focus, his intensity, his instinct are something of a phenomenon,'' Mr. Mills said. ''And I say that as someone who has worked for four prime ministers and met most leaders of the industrialized world.''
 That has been tempered somewhat by his political and business theories. In 1993, Mr. Stronach, who once ran unsuccessfully for Parliament, suggested that Canada should be governed by juries of citizens selected by computers to serve one-year terms and vote in secret on legislation. Magna helped finance the promotion of the concept with some of the 2 percent of its pretax profit that is reserved for charity, social causes, education and politics. 
 Mr. Stronach attributes much of his success to what he calls the Magna principles of fair enterprise that among other things require the company to offer profit sharing, employee stock ownership and a minimum level of spending on research and development as well as charity.
 A version of the principles, Mr. Stronach said, is carved in stone at the company's head office, an Austrian-style castle in Aurora, Ontario, an affluent community north of Toronto. The complex includes an auto parts plant -- also designed with a castle motif -- large homes for Mr. Stronach and his two children, a golf course and riding stables.
 Outsiders, however, tend to credit to the company's early success to its operating structure rather than Mr. Stronach's code for conducting business and treating employees.
 In particular, Magna expanded by building a large number of small factories rather than combining operations within sprawling plants. Each plant manager, in turn, was given considerable decision-making power and a share of the plant's profit.
 Early in the 1980s Magna also pioneered the design and engineering of parts in addition to producing them. When Chrysler emerged from its overhaul under Lee A. Iacocca, it reduced the development costs of its ultimately successful line of minivans by contracting out the design and production of most of their interiors to Magna. Magna still handles that minivan work as well as systems for other vehicles, including the electrical systems of the Mini Cooper by BMW.
 ''They were at the right place at the right time,'' said Johannes Van Biesebroeck, a University of Toronto economist who studies the auto industry and manufacturing. ''The outsourcing of interior modules has been great for them.''
 Magna's growth was not always matched with corresponding financial skills. By late 1989 the company was heavily burdened with debt when it was hit by a slowdown in orders from customers. The result is what Mr. Stronach now calls ''a speed bump,'' but what most people saw as a brush with bankruptcy.
 A cost reduction program and reorganization, mostly during 1989 and 1990, saved Magna. Among the items eliminated were Mr. Stronach's forays into distinctively nonauto lines of business, including Belinda's, a one-outlet restaurant chain, and a media group that included a radio station and a glossy big-budget business magazine, Vista.
 Not all of Mr. Stronach's side interests have been exorcized from Magna. While it separated from Magna International in 2000, Magna Entertainment, which lost $87.4 million last year, continues to deal with the parent company. Last year, for example, Magna International paid $84.7 million to acquire two golf courses from the gambling and horse racing company.
 In late June, Mr. Stronach became Magna Entertainment's interim chief executive after Michael Neuman, a former president of the satellite television provider EchoStar Communications, left after four months on the job. Mr. Neuman was the company's fourth chief executive since 2001, including a previous interim stint by Mr. Stronach.
 While Mr. Mills declined to comment on Mr. Stronach's ultimate goal, Magna has gradually moved in recent years into the business of manufacturing complete cars.
 In Austria, the Magna Steyr unit assembles 248,000 passenger cars and S.U.V.'s annually for BMW, the Saab operation of G.M. and the Mercedes-Benz, Chrysler and Jeep brands.
 Most Magna-built models have relatively small production runs that fully integrated automakers have traditionally not been able to produce efficiently themselves. Mr. Stronach has made it clear that outsourced assembly is an idea that he would like to import to North America.
 Like many people who watch Magna, Professor Van Biesebroeck speculated that Magna's interest in Chrysler was partly linked to Mr. Stronach desire to assemble cars in North America. But while all North American manufacturers are producing an increasing numbers of niche models, Professor Van Biesebroeck is not confident that trend will create opportunities for Magna.
 After investing heavily in plants that can produce a variety of models, a system often called flexible manufacturing, most automakers have almost eliminated any inefficiencies they once encountered in producing small production runs within their own plants, Professor Van Biesebroeck said.
 Mr. Stronach's answer to his critics is Russia. In his surprise announcement at the annual meeting, Mr. Stronach unveiled a plan to sell 20 million Magna shares and partial control of the company to a company controlled by Mr. Deripaska, a Russian billionaire whose holdings include the GAZ Group, the big Russian carmaker. If the deal is completed, Mr. Deripaska and Mr. Stronach will jointly control a holding company that, in turn, will control Magna.
 Mr. Stronach predicted that entering the Russian market might double or triple Magna's revenue, which was $24 billion last year. Certainly the Russian market is growing. It increased 23 percent in 2006. But it is also relatively small, just 1.78 million units that year. Also, by linking Magna to a single producer, it is not clear whether the company will receive a warm reception at other Russian auto plants, both domestic and foreign-owned.
 But before any of that happens, the complex transaction must be approved by a majority of Magna's Class A minority shareholders. The plan has come under widespread criticism in Canada for excessively benefiting Mr. Stronach and senior managers. While Mr. Stronach will not contribute any money to the reorganization, the arrangement will increase his annual dividend payments to just under $8 million, from about $700,000.
 Exactly how Mr. Deripaska is benefiting is unclear, beyond speculation that he is setting himself up for ultimately taking over Magna.
 ''Whatever it is, the only sure thing is that Mr. Stronach and management are getting a slick deal here,'' wrote Derek DeCloet, a business columnist for The Globe and Mail who urged shareholders to use their votes to ''deliver a message: Give us a better deal, Mr. Stronach, or we'll kill this one.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Frank Stronach, the chairman of the auto parts maker Magna International, this year made a bid for Chrysler and pitched a plan to sell partial control of Magna to a company controlled by a Russian billionaire. (Photograph by Adrian Wyld/Canadian Press, via Associated Press)(pg.C8)
 Magna unveiled a concept car called MILA in September 2006 at its headquarters in Troy, Mich. An auto parts supplier, Magna has gradually moved in recent years into the business of manufacturing complete cars. (Photograph by Rebecca Cook/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MACHINE TOOLS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (75%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (65%); WRITERS (65%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (64%)

COMPANY: MAGNA INTERNATIONAL INC (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: MGA (NYSE) (91%); MG (TSX) (91%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336360 MOTOR VEHICLE SEATING & INTERIOR TRIM MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (58%); OLEG DERIPASKA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (77%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (77%) CANADA (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); AUSTRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007



184 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Shareholders Approve Merc's Buyout of CBOT

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 9 

 BODY:
The Chicago Board of Trade got the final approval from shareholders Monday to join forces with its longtime rival in an $11.9 billion deal.
 The merger will end the Board of Trade's 159 years of independence, but could make the combined company the world's biggest exchange. 
 The offer by Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings, known as the Merc, to buy one of the nation's oldest and largest financial institutions won approval at shareholder meetings for both companies after four months of back-and-forth bidding involving the upstart IntercontinentalExchange, known as ICE.
 The two exchanges said the deal should close within days, creating a new firm to be named the CME Group, a Chicago Board of Trade company.
 The vote totals were not immediately available, but executives said preliminary indications were that it had passed easily.
 A majority became assured only after the Merc raised its offer a third time on Friday to win over CBOT's largest and most influential shareholder, Caledonia Investments, of Australia. Caledonia swiftly joined four proxy advisory firms in recommending an approval.
 ICE, based in Atlanta, quietly conceded in the face of the last bid by Merc, leaving its most recent proposal valued at about $11.7 billion.
 Jerome Israelov, a wheat trader for 17 years, said that going with the smaller ICE would have been too risky.
 ''There's been a consensus for awhile that this was the right marriage, and the only impediment was price,'' he said.
 Still, he added: ''I don't think it's quite sunk in yet that it's essentially the end of an institution that's been here for a century and a half.''
 Pairing the Merc and Board of Trade would create the world's largest one-stop futures and options market for things like interest rates and pork bellies. 
 It would also create the world's No. 1 exchange of any kind by market value, rivaling or outpacing the Deutsche Borse and the New York Stock Exchange.
 Its size has prompted concerns it could force up trading prices and claim a monopoly in derivatives -- contracts based on the performance of an underlying financial asset, index or other instrument. But federal regulators signed off on the proposed combination in June after months of scrutiny.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders in the soybean futures pit at the Chicago Board of Trade yesterday. An $11.9 billion deal with Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings will end the Board of Trade's 159 years of independence. (Photograph by Scott Olson/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (95%); APPROVALS (92%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MERGERS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (89%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PORK (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (97%); INTERCONTINENTALEXCHANGE INC (73%); CALEDONIA INVESTMENTS PLC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (90%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (97%); ICE (NYSE) (73%); CLDN (LSE) (55%); CDN (NZX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (97%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (97%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007



185 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 Baghdad Officials WarnAgainst U.S. Withdrawal
 As the Senate prepares to begin a new debate on proposals for a withdrawal from Iraq, the United States ambassador and the Iraqi foreign minister have warned that the departure of American troops could lead to sharply increased violence, the deaths of thousands and a regional conflict that could draw in Iraq's neighbors. A1
Afghanistan School Attacks 
 Shootings, beheadings, burnings and bombings are all tools of intimidation used by the Taliban and others to shut down hundreds of public schools in Afghanistan, where to take aim at education is to make war on the government. A1 
 Gaza Strip Suffers Shortages
 Since the takeover of Gaza by Hamas, Palestinians there have become more cut off than ever. Supplies and jobs are slipping away as rival Fatah, backed by Israel and the West, pressures Hamas. A1 
 Mosque Standoff Violence
 The Pakistani military stormed a mosque complex where Islamic militants and students have been holed up since last week, a military spokesman told reporters. A military spokesman told reporters that three security personnel had been killed and 15 injured. A10 
 Argentine Presidency Battle
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, left, the wife of current Argentine president Nestor Kirchner, faces several traps, mostly of her husband's making, during the presidential campaign that lies ahead -- and even more if, as expected, she wins the October election. A9 
 Glasgow Terrorist's History
 Kafeel Ahmed, the engineer identified by the police as one of two main suspects in the British car bomb plot, worked as an aeronautical engineer for an Indian outsourcing company that designs aircraft parts for companies like Boeing and Airbus. A3 NATIONAL A14-19 
 Bush Invokes PrivilegeIn Prosecutor Case
 President Bush invoked a broad interpretation of executive privilege in his confrontation with Congress over the dismissal of federal prosecutors, refusing to comply with subpoenas for documents and blocking testimony from former aides. A15 
 Debating Health Care Change
 Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania and other big-state governors who are leading a second wave of health care reform after recent coverage expansions in Maine, Massachusetts and Vermont are railing about runaway costs to cover the uninsured, as are presidential candidates in both parties. A1 
 Pennsylvania lawmakers reached a budget accord, ending a standoff that had led to the one-day furlough of a third of Pennsylvania's state workers. A17 
 Army Misses Recruiting Goals
 The Army missed its recruiting goals in June for the second straight month, as rising casualties in Iraq and a strong economy at home kept the service from enlisting enough new soldiers, officials said. A14 
 Hurricane Center Chief Resigns
 Without ever presiding over a hurricane forecast, the director of the National Hurricane Center in Miami, X. William Proenza, left his position after half of his staff signed a letter calling for him to be replaced, ending a tumultuous half-year stay. A15 
 Son Testifies in Mob Trial
 In the biggest organized crime trial in Chicago in years, jurors scribbled dutifully in notebooks as Frank Calabrese Jr., the son of a reputed mob leader, offered a rare, almost surreal how-to lesson about growing up in the ''Chicago Outfit.'' A14 
 Controversy Over Conference
 After a conference of university, school and hospital officials in New Mexico, some higher education officials -- and even some consultants seeking access to them -- called the conference's format deeply troubling. A14 
 NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 New York City Schools Feed Multitudes in Summer
 The New York City school system is delivering free meals for the first time in housing projects, libraries and day camps to become one of the nation's largest summer soup kitchens. Education Department officials expect to exceed last summer's total of more than 6 million breakfasts and lunches, a number well beyond the reach of other big-city public school districts. A1
 Battle Takes Toll on Spitzer
 Gov. Eliot Spitzer, sounding by turns defiant and chastened, defended his aggressive approach in Albany but also said his battling with Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, was taking a toll on his family. In an interview an unusually reflective Mr. Spitzer said his wife is questioning whether the job is worth the public attacks that come with it. A1
 2 Officers Shot in Brooklyn
 Two New York City police officers were shot while conducting a routine traffic stop in Brooklyn. Officer Russel Timoshenko, 23, was shot twice, in the mouth and throat, and was in critical condition on life support, officials said. Officer Herman Yan, 26, was shot in the arm and chest and is expected to recover. B1 SPORTSTUESDAY D1-8
 Naming Players in Drug Cases
 The United States attorney's office in the Northern District of California and the Major League Baseball Players Association each filed motions in federal court to protect the names of current and former major league players linked to two cases involving performance-enhancing drugs. D6 OBITUARIES B7
 Dr. John R. Hogness
 The first president of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences, who molded it to be an independent critic of the nation's health care system, he was 85. B7
 BUSINESS DAY C1-14 
 Guilty Plea in Kickback Case
 David J. Bershad, a former partner at the securities class-action law firm Milberg Weiss, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors, adding traction to a seven-year federal investigation into accusations that the firm paid secret kickbacks to plaintiffs. C1 
 Business Digest C2 EDITORIAL A20-21
 Editorials: A nominee's abnormal views; myths spun by lax lenders; Interior's incomplete ethics policy; Verlyn Klinkenborg on John Szarkowski.
 Columns: David Brooks and Bob Herbert. 

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HAMAS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ARMIES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); WEATHER (89%); MILITARY RECRUITING (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); TALIBAN (77%); AL FATAH (74%); OUTSOURCING (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); SUBPOENAS (69%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (68%); RELIGION (68%); HEALTH CARE LAW (66%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (66%); HURRICANES (62%); TROPICAL STORMS (62%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (61%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (53%); AIRBUS SAS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (83%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (53%)

PERSON: NESTOR KIRCHNER (65%); ED RENDELL (54%); CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (57%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007



186 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths MARSHALL, GEORGE W.

 BODY:
 MARSHALL--George W. died on July 6, 2007 at 84 after a long battle with heart disease and cancer. He is survived by two sons, Richard D. Marshall (partner in the New York office of the law firm Ropes & Gray) and Robert C. Marshall (Head of the Department of Economics at Pennsylvania State University), a sister Lorraine Penzak of Buffalo Grove, Illinois, and two grandchildren, George William Marshall II and Emma Elizabeth Marshall. He was pre deceased by his wife of 56 years, Jeanne E. Marshall, who died in 2005. He graduated from Northwestern University in 1948, which he attended with his wife, and retired partner of the accounting firm Arthur Andersen & Co. Born and raised in Chicago, Illinois, he lived fo the last 39 years in Morristown, New Jersey. He served with distinction in the Army Air Corp during WWII, where he fought in the European theater and worked on experimental radar. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated at the Church of Christ the King, Blue Mill Rd., New Vernon, NJ on Thursday at 10:00 am. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (82%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); RELIGION (70%)

COMPANY: ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP (70%); ROPES & GRAY LLP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (70%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007



187 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Investors Give Market Cautious Nudge Up

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street edged higher in an erratic session yesterday as investors were reassured by a drop in Treasury bond yields yet remained cautious as second-quarter earnings season kicks off this week.
 Investors were looking to corporate earnings to help give the market some direction in the coming weeks. After the closing bell, the aluminum producer Alcoa released results that matched analysts' projections.
 In the meantime, Wall Street found some solace as the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note dipped to 5.14 percent from 5.18 percent on Friday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, rose 10/32, to 95 3/32. There had been some concern that the steady rise in bond yields since June would crimp deal making. 
 Buyout activity continued yesterday when Hexion Specialty Chemicals, owned by the private equity firm Apollo Management, raised its takeover bid for the chemical company Huntsman. Coventry Health Care agreed to acquire Florida Health Plan Administrators, owner of Vista Healthplans, for $685 million.
 Shareholders of CBOT Holdings, parent of the Chicago Board of Trade, approved a merger with Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings, a deal that will create the world's largest derivatives exchange.
 ''There's just not much earnings or economic news out there, and that has the market bobbing and weaving a little bit,'' said Jay Suskind, head trader at Ryan Beck & Company. 
 The Dow Jones industrials rose 38.29 points, or 0.28 percent, to 13,649.97. The blue-chip index came within about seven points of its record close of 13,676.32 before falling back.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.41 points, or 0.09 percent, to 1,531.85, and the Nasdaq composite index added 3.51 points, or 0.13 percent, to 2,670.02. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 0.93 point, or 0.11 percent, to 853.24.
 Investors will be watching crude oil prices, which have been trading at their highest levels since last August. So far, high energy prices have not yet hurt overall consumer spending, but any sign that inflationary pressures are worsening could raise worries on Wall Street about an interest rate increase.
 A barrel of light crude oil fell 62 cents, to $72.19, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 In corporate news, Huntsman shares were up 7 cents at $28.07 after Apollo Management raised its offer by 2.8 percent, to $28 a share.
 Alcoa reported after the bell that second-quarter results fell about 4 percent but still matched analysts' projections. Shares closed up 70 cents at $42.36, but lost ground in after-hours electronic trading.
 FedEx surged $5.33, or 4.8 percent, to $116.17 on a report the package delivery company could become a target for private equity buyers because of its modest valuation and turnaround potential, according to a report in Barron's.
 Shares of CBOT fell $1.18, to $222.82. Chicago Mercantile Exchange shares fell $4.22, to $570.58. InterContinental Exchange, which had also bid on the Chicago Board of Trade, rose 69 cents, to $156.78.
 Boeing rose $1.02 to $99.90 on reports it received orders for its 787 Dreamliner. On Sunday the company unveiled the jet, which already has more than $100 billion in orders.
 Advancing issues outpaced decliners by four to three on the New York Stock Exchange, where consolidated volume came to 2.68 billion shares, up from 2.39 billion on Friday.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction for three-month and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOND MARKETS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (77%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (76%); INFLATION (75%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (75%); CHEMICALS (73%); MERGERS (73%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (73%); CHEMICALS MFG (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (71%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (68%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (60%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (60%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (57%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (83%); APOLLO ADVISORS LP (83%); MOMENTIVE SPECIALITY CHEMICALS INC (69%); ALCOA INC (57%); COVENTRY HEALTH CARE INC (56%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (51%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (83%); AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%); CVH (NYSE) (56%); APO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (83%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (83%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (83%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (83%); NAICS325910 PRINTING INK MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007



188 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: With Pressure Put on Hamas, Gaza Is Cut Off

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and ISABEL KERSHNER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, July 9 

 BODY:
In the month since Hamas took over Gaza, the 1.5 million Palestinians there have become more cut off than ever, supplies and jobs slipping away as its rival, Fatah, backed by Israel and the West, presses Hamas.
 The situation from the continued closure of the main commercial crossing in and out at Karni has gotten so bad that on Monday, the United Nations agency that cares for the majority of Gazans -- refugees and their descendants -- announced a halt to all its building projects there because it has run out of construction supplies, like cement.
 The halt will affect about $93 million of projects employing 121,000 people, including schools, water works, health centers and sewage-treatment plants, said the agency, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency, or UNRWA.
 Agency officials say they are rapidly running down their reserves of food and other supplies. 
 The anti-Hamas camp of Fatah, Israel and the West is grappling with a problem: While opening Karni and another crossing at Rafah could help revive the expiring economy of Gaza, it could also help strengthen Hamas, which Western governments consider a terrorist group, and its chances of success.
 ''We need to differentiate between punishing the people of Gaza and weakening Hamas,'' said Nimr Hamad, an adviser to the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, of Fatah. ''We don't want the people to suffer.'' 
 But when it comes to practical solutions for reopening Karni, Mr. Hamad refers the problem back to Israel. ''The moment Israel is ready to discuss the issue we will see what solutions are possible,'' he says.
 In a statement on Monday about the crossings, Hamas accused its opponents of indifference. ''The leadership of the Palestinian Authority tries to take advantage of the people's suffering to achieve political goals,'' the statement said.
 There are people in Israel who oppose reopening Karni, says Shlomo Dror, spokesman for the Coordinator of Activities in the Territories, the Israeli military agency that deals with Palestinian civil affairs. ''We are now discussing what constitutes humanitarian assistance,'' he says. ''Some people feel we should be allowing in water, electricity, and that's it.'' 
 As for the mood of the United States Congress, which had been asked to provide millions to help Mr. Abbas's elite Presidential Guard with training and to rebuild the Palestinian side of Karni, Representative Steven Israel, Democrat of New York, said on a visit here, ''There is no appetite to fund Karni, no interest there.''
 Gaza factories and businesses, already hit hard by intra-Palestinian violence, are running out of materials they need to operate -- and to provide jobs. A report last week by Gisha -- the Legal Center for Freedom of Movement, an Israeli advocacy group -- said that up to 75 percent of the 3,900 factories operating in Gaza on the eve of Karni's closure have had to cease production, according to the Palestinian Federation of Industry. 
 Unable to import raw materials or export finished products, the factories are closing, forcing as many as 30,000 more families to rely on aid to survive.
 Some Israeli officials and Western diplomats say they believe Fatah is keeping Karni shut to squeeze Hamas -- just as Egypt has agreed with Israel to keep closed the Rafah crossing, used for people, to limit movement of individuals and money. 
 Mr. Abbas has ordered his forces in Gaza, including the police, to stay at home and many believe he would rather see Karni stay shut for now. ''That is my understanding,'' said Mr. Israel, who recently spent time with Palestinian leaders in Ramallah.
 Ali al-Hayak, the director of the Palestinian Federation of Industry, said, ''Israel is not punishing the government; instead it is punishing the people.''
 Everyone says they do not want ordinary Gazans to be punished for their leaders, but only Hamas seems eager to reopen Karni.
 Israel says it will work with the Palestinians once they organize themselves and come up with an internal solution. But there are those in Israel and in Fatah who prefer to see Hamas try to cope with the pressures of its victory without helping a group that sees itself at war with both of them.
 At the height of the fighting, Israel closed down Karni, the main cargo crossing on the Gaza-Israel border and the only one equipped for commercial imports and exports. Members of the Palestinian Authority's elite Presidential Guard, which had previously secured the Palestinian side of the crossing and which is loyal to Fatah, fled their posts.
 With them vanished the Israeli-Palestinian agreements for running the crossing, which had been designed to address Israel's deep-seated security concerns.
 ''We woke up one morning and found Hamas gunmen in ski masks on the other side,'' said Mark Regev, a spokesman for the Israeli Foreign Ministry. 
 Both John Ging, the director of UNRWA operations in Gaza, and Mr. Regev say they are waiting for the Palestinians to come up with some kind of internal agreement on how to administer the Palestinian side of the crossings in a way that will meet Israel's security requirements. ''There has been no decision in Israel to keep the crossings closed on political grounds,'' Mr. Regev said.
 Yet when it comes to Karni, there seems to be a general ambivalence and little sense of urgency in either Jerusalem or Ramallah, the administrative capital of the West Bank, where Mr. Abbas has appointed an emergency government with no Hamas ministers. 
 Israel's military moved quickly to allow the passage of medicines and staples into Gaza, mostly through smaller, secondary crossings like Sufa and Kerem Shalom, in order to stave off a looming crisis of hunger and public health.
 A United Nations report covering the week of June 25 - July 1 found that the emergency imports into Gaza had met 70 percent of the minimum food needs of the population there. 
 Mr. Ging warns that at current levels, the assistance is a stopgap solution. Since Karni is the only crossing equipped to handle containers, the process of bringing in tons of products through smaller crossings, where everything has to be transferred from Israeli trucks to Palestinian trucks, is slow and expensive. So far, Mr. Ging's organization has been drawing on its large reserves in Gaza to supplement the assistance. But in less than six weeks, he says, ''the stocks will be running out and we will start getting into big trouble.'' 
 Mr. Dror insists that his office is doing what it can. A huge conveyor belt has been adapted at Karni to send wheat into Gaza, without the need for elaborate security measures because it passes straight through a hole in a wall from the Israeli side into Gaza. 
 Spokesmen for Hamas in Gaza have said that they are willing to consider all options to get the crossings reopened, including the return of the Presidential Guard. Mr. Dror says that if the Presidential Guard returns under Hamas command, Israel ''won't work with them.''
 Hamas has made its own demands, especially over the issue of the Rafah passenger crossing. About 6,000 Palestinians are stranded on the Egyptian side of the crossing, which has been closed since June 9, many of them without shelter in the sweltering heat. Israel, the Ramallah-based Palestinian Authority and Egypt agreed to allow those stranded people to enter Gaza through Kerem Shalom, as a one-time solution to alleviate the human suffering. But Hamas officials rejected the idea, calling it an attack on Palestinian ''symbolic sovereignty'' at Rafah. To reinforce the message, militants fired mortars on Monday at Kerem Shalom, inside Israel, one of which hit the crossing. 
 While ''waiting for the Palestinians to get their act together,'' as Mr. Regev puts it, the Israeli Foreign Ministry is also looking into what he calls ''creative solutions'' involving a possible third-party presence at the crossings. 
 So far, however, there are few signs that foreigners want to get involved. On the contrary, the European Union monitoring mission which supervised the Rafah passenger crossing has temporarily suspended its operation and scaled down the number of personnel on standby. 

GRAPHIC: Nap: The flow of supplies at the Karni crossing has been halted. (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL FATAH (91%); HAMAS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); REFUGEES (72%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (71%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: STEVE ISRAEL (79%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007



189 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Costs Surge For Building Power Plants

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
General Electric called in reporters yesterday for a briefing on a nuclear plant it is trying to sell in partnership with Hitachi, a plant it said can be built faster than before, operated reliably and have a vanishingly small chance of an accident.
 But what will it cost? After some hemming and hawing, company executives gave figures by the standard industry metric, dollars per kilowatt of capacity, but in a huge range: $2,000 to $3,000.
 ''There's massive inflation in copper and nickel and stainless steel and concrete,'' said John Krenecki, president and chief executive of GE Energy. The uncertainty is not just in nuclear plants, he said; coal plant prices are now similarly unstable.
 As talk of building new power plants rises sharply, so does the cost. A new fleet of coal-fired power plants and a revival of nuclear construction after three decades are both looking tougher lately. 
 For example, in late 2004, Duke Energy, one of the country's largest utilities and most experienced builders, started planning a pair of coal-fired power plants to replace several built around the middle of the last century, at Cliffside, in western North Carolina. In May 2005, the company told regulators it wanted to spend $2 billion to build twin 800-megawatt units. But 18 months later, in November 2006, Duke said it would cost $3 billion. Then the state utility commission said to build only one of the plants, and in May of this year Duke said that would cost $1.83 billion, an increase of more than 80 percent from the original estimate. 
 Duke's experience may be extreme but it is hardly isolated.
 ''There's real sticker shock out there,'' Randy H. Zwirn, president of the Siemens Power Generation Group, said in an interview. He estimated that in the last 18 months, the price of a coal-fired power plant has risen 25 percent to 30 percent. 
 Part of the problem is huge price increases for the raw materials that plants are made from, including copper and nickel, which is what makes steel stainless. But the cost of finishing those commodities into components is also rising. 
 ''There's a lack of production and manufacturing facilities in this country, and that may be partly to blame,'' said Jason Makansi, a consultant with Pearl Street, a consulting firm in St. Louis that specializes in electric utilities. But, he said, ''the bigger culprit is the incredible demand in China and the rest of Asia.''
 ''Basically everything is being sent over that way.''
 A result of demand in China and India, he said, is that ''Duke and others want to build a new power plant based on inexpensive coal, but the capital cost to build that plant is doubling before they even put a shovel in the ground.''
 And other kinds of projects that use similar materials, everything from oil refineries to natural gas terminals, are competing for the same materials and labor, experts said. ''So many industries are at cyclical peaks at the same time,'' Mr. Krenecki of G.E. said. ''We can't forecast how long that will continue.''
 Mr. Makansi and others say a result is that consumers, already paying more for electricity because the price of coal and especially natural gas is up, will pay even more for new generating stations.
 Duke was not surprised that prices were up, but realized when it actually took in bids from suppliers that the situation was worse than expected. Analysts say that the companies that make major plant components will gear up to meet new demand and eventually price increases will moderate. But James L. Turner, president and chief operating officer of Duke's United States electric and gas system, said the company could not wait for prices to reverse. 
 ''Given customer needs and demand growth on our system, we don't have the luxury of waiting to see if it all settles down in a decade,'' he said, although the company says it would like to undertake more vigorous steps to cut demand through higher energy efficiency.
 Duke was reluctant to discuss exactly what it was paying for major components. But Siemens, a supplier, gave some examples for a typical combined-cycle natural gas power plant, one that burns the fuel in a gas turbine to drive one generator, then makes steam from the exhaust to drive a second generator. The high-pressure piping for steam, used on a 293-megawatt plant, is up about 60 percent in the last two years, to about $1.12 million, according to the company. The equipment that uses exhaust heat to make steam, used at a 590-megawatt plant, is up about 40 percent in the last two years, $15.1 million in April of this year vs. $10.7 million in May 2005, according to Siemens.
 Simply moving a 435,000-pound turbine for a 198-megawatt plant from factory to the plant site now runs about $100,000, according to Siemens, up from about $50,000 two years ago.
 Nuclear plants still on the drawing board are also affected. 
 ''For nuclear and for coal, we pretty much figure it's going to be about the same effect,'' said Revis James, an economist at the Electric Power Research Institute, a nonprofit consortium in Palo Alto, Calif. No matter what the technology, he said, ''there's been a huge amount of change in the baseline estimates people are using.'' 
 Renewable energy is not immune. ''Costs have increased for wind as they have for other technologies,'' said Christine Real de Azua, a spokeswoman for the American Wind Energy Association. ''While wind farm operations are not hit by fuel price volatility, steep increases in the cost of raw materials like copper and steel and other factors have driven up the price of wind turbines,'' she said in an e-mail statement. 
 Her association recently republished data from a utility that buys large amounts of wind power, Puget Sound Energy, showing that prices in 2006 ranged from about 8 cents to 10.5 cents a kilowatt-hour, up from 2004, when it was 4.5 to 6 cents. A recent study by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, part of the Department of Energy, showed a steadily declining price from 1999 to 2005, but an increase in 2006. The study said that wind power was generally competitive with other sources of energy but that rising costs were ''starting to erode that value.'' 
 But the wind energy association said that competing technologies show even steeper increases.
 All of this is bad news for efforts to slow climate change, experts say. Equipment to capture carbon dioxide from the smokestacks of power plants would be made of all the things that are rising in price: concrete, structural steel, steel vessels, valves and pipes. That equipment would require somewhat less of the most expensive components, the ones on the generation side that are meant to resist the highest temperatures, pressures and corrosive materials. But it would all be assembled by the same types of workers who are in short supply for building conventional power plants.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Soaring prices for materials like this nickel mined in Norilsk, Russia, have helped drive up construction costs for energy plants. (Photograph by James Hill for The New York Times)(pg. C9) Chart: ''Sticker Shock'' Builders of all kinds of power plants say construction costs have risen sharply. Two indexes for related types of projects show the trend.(pg. C9) Chart shows line graph of rise in plant and equipment costs from June 1998 - 2007. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (93%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COAL PRICES (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); COAL INDUSTRY (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (85%); SIEMENS AG (58%); GE ENERGY (57%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (56%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (85%); GEC (LSE) (85%); GE (SWX) (85%); GE (NYSE) (85%); SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%); DUK (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007



190 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1670 words

HEADLINE: Determined to Reinspire a Culture of Innovation

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Like everyone else, William A. Wulf understands the importance of innovation in the American economy, and how innovation depends on an educated workforce and abundant spending on research.
 But learning and investment are not enough, Dr. Wulf says. An innovation economy depends on intellectual property law, tax codes, patent procedures, export controls, immigration regulations and factors making up what he calls ''the ecology of innovation.'' Unfortunately, he argues, in the United States too many of these components are unworkable, irrelevant, inadequate, outdated or ''fundamentally broken.'' 
 He would know. For 11 years, Dr. Wulf, a researcher and entrepreneur of computer science, was president of the National Academy of Engineering, the engineering arm of the National Academy of Sciences and the nation's pre-eminent organization of innovators. In that time, it seems, his reputation among his fellow engineers has only grown -- they call him variously a good guy, a great guy, a brilliant guy and even ''the best guy in the world.''
 As Ed Lazowska, a computer scientist at the University of Washington, put it, ''he has been a huge statesman for the engineering enterprise.'' In the process, he said, Dr. Wulf greatly increased the prominence of the engineering academy, chartered by Congress to offer scientific and technical advice to the government. 
 He did this in part, colleagues say, by starting programs to encourage students to enter engineering, and establishing prizes to reward high engineering achievement. More than that, people like Dr. Lazowska say, he encouraged the academy to issue hard-hitting reports that sometimes challenged government positions on code-breaking, the importance of classifying research, and other security issues.
 As he left office last month, Dr. Wulf began a project he said he hoped others would join him in -- repairing the nonfunctioning elements of America's ecology of innovation and building mechanisms to foster creative thinking and invention as science and technology advance. 
 ''Even if we fixed every one of the components of this innovation ecology to be just right for today and tomorrow, they probably would not be a week hence,'' he said in an interview before he left office. ''At least every once in a while we should stand back and say what was the intent of intellectual property protection, what was the intent of the export control regime, what was the intent of antitrust? And in the light of today's technology, what's the best way to achieve that?''
 He has been asking these questions a lot lately: they were his subject at a recent forum held by the American Association for the Advancement of Science and in a guest editorial in the journal Science.
 Consider antitrust laws, he suggested at the forum. They were developed in the late 19th century, ''in the context of the economic theories of the time.'' But today, many of those assumptions are irrelevant. When it comes to word processing software, for example, he said, the wide use of a particular product -- Microsoft Word, say -- may pay more dividends than encouraging the production of myriad competing programs. Microsoft Word software may not be the best or the cheapest but he uses it anyway, ''because there is a really good chance that if I create a doc file and send it to anybody, they'll be able to open it up and edit it and send it back to me. It is the ubiquity of Word that makes it valuable.''
 This is not to say that we should embrace inferior products, he said, but regulators should recognize that disregarding the value of ubiquity can work against innovation.
 Or take what he called ''the idiocy'' of enacting short-term tax credits for research and development. ''R and D takes many years,'' he said. ''If companies invested this year to take advantage of the R and D credit and then the next year it went away, they would have to stop the research and they would have wasted money.''
 He says this is why corporate leaders tell him ''with near unanimity'' that tax credits have little influence on their decisions.
 Then there is the drug approval process at the Food and Drug Administration. It typically relies on clinical trials involving hundreds or thousands of patients, in which new drugs are compared with existing ones. If the promise that medicines will be devised to suit a particular patient's particular ailment is fulfilled, he said, that kind of testing will be impossible -- and irrelevant.
 For the third year in a row, Congress is confronting patent laws, which Dr. Wulf describes as relics of the days when patents were awarded for things inventors could construct as scale models and submit to patent examiners. ''It would be surprising if that system, designed for that purpose, was ideally suited to software or snippings of DNA or business practices,'' Dr. Wulf told the A.A.A.S. forum. He added that in an era when technologies may become obsolete well before their patents expire, ''the current patent system is at best irrelevant and in some cases counterproductive.''
 The United States has already ceded its dominance of mass production manufacturing to low-wage countries, and unless something is done to improve the ecology of innovation, Dr. Wulf said, the nation will lose its chance for a comeback in what he calls the coming age of mass customization. ''This is a knowledge-intensive kind of manufacturing,'' he said. ''It will not be done by low-wage labor.'' But, he went on: ''What worries me is we're not thinking of what the ecology is that would capture that kind of manufacturing. We have the ability to become the greatest manufacturing country in the world, but we are not doing anything about it.'' 
 Dr. Wulf says he regrets this not just because of its implications for the nation's economic future, but also because it means fewer people will experience what he calls the ''thrill'' of innovating, of inventing something elegant and useful, something he first experienced as an undergraduate.
 Dr. Wulf, 67, who was born in Chicago and who comes from a family of engineers, said his ''eureka moment'' occurred when he was a physics major at the University of Illinois and had a summer job at a Chicago engineering firm. One of his group's projects was a machine that read telephone numbers from holes punched in plastic cards. Now and then cards would jam and the machine would break, much to the irritation of the people who used it. 
 So he watched the machine at work. ''I can remember looking up and thinking, 'I know what it is,' '' he recalled in an interview. ''I mocked up the solution with cardboard and drafting paper. It was inexpensive, it was easy to modify and it was foolproof.''
 His innovation won praise from colleagues and a bonus in his check. But the real reward, he said, ''was that moment of creation, that moment of seeing the problem and seeing a solution.'' He said, ''once you have had the creative thrill of designing something that solves a real human problem and that people use, it's addictive.''
 Before long, he had a master's in electrical engineering from Illinois, a doctorate in the then-new field of computer science from the University of Virginia and a teaching job at Carnegie Mellon University. There, he began research eventually spun off as Tartan Laboratories, which makes devices that translate C, Pascal, Fortran or other programming languages into ''machine language,'' instructions a machine can execute. 
 ''As a researcher, he is utterly first-rate,'' Dr. Lazowska said.
 After Tartan was sold to Texas Instruments in 1995, Dr. Wulf worked for two years as assistant director of the National Science Foundation, where he led its efforts in computer science and information engineering, and then took a teaching job at the University of Virginia. All the while, he was working more or less in parallel with his wife, Anita Jones, who is also a computer scientist, and also a member of the Academy of Engineering. The couple, who celebrated their 30th anniversary last month, have two daughters and four grandsons.
 They were on the faculty of Carnegie Mellon together, and when they started Tartan he was chief executive and she was vice president for engineering. He worked at the National Science Foundation, and she was director of defense research and engineering at the Pentagon (unfortunately not always at the same time). And when he moved to the University of Virginia, she was his department head. He will work for her again when he returns to the university in the fall. 
 His wife's accomplishments underline the importance of bringing more women into engineering, Dr. Wulf said, adding that the number of women in the Academy quadrupled during his tenure as president. But he added, ''the bad news is we have gone from 1 percent to 4 percent.'' 
 His argument for diversity is not based on fairness, but rather on the value of bringing diverse social and cultural perspectives to the design of products and procedures that will be used by diverse people around the world. 
 There are elements of culture that form an important part of the ecology of innovation, and here, Dr. Wulf says, the United States has advantages and disadvantages. 
 One big advantage is that innovating something and seeing it fail carries much less stigma here than it does in other countries. ''In almost every other country in the world, certainly in the Far East, the social cost of failure is enormous,'' he said.
 On the other hand, he said, there is widespread ignorance of science and technology. ''Here we are with 90 percent of the population incapable of intelligent conversation about some of the most important policy issues of the day,'' he said.
 Dr. Wulf said he was eager to appear before the A.A.A.S. and write his editorial in Science not because he knows how to fix the ecology of innovation but because ''this is not something people have been talking about.'' He said, ''I want to get a lot of smart people thinking about it.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 21, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times on July 10 about William A. Wulf, an engineer and entrepreneur of computer science, referred imprecisely to the duration of Dr. Wulf's work with Tartan Laboratories. Dr. Wulf left Tartan in 1988, before the company was sold to Texas Instruments, not after. Also, the article misstated the year that Texas Instruments acquired Tartan. It was 1996, not 1995.

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photograph by Stephanie Kuykendal for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (89%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); PATENTS (78%); PATENT LAW (77%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); EXPORT CONTROLS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (72%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%); IMMIGRATION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007



191 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: A Precinct of Contrasts, Where Violence Still Lurks

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK; Kate Hammer and David K. Randall contributed reporting.

 BODY:
At the corner of Lefferts and Rogers Avenues in Brooklyn, where two police officers were shot early yesterday, people speak of a neighborhood of sharp contrasts, of welcome reductions in crime and stubborn pockets of violence, of affluence settling in amid despair.
 The shooting took place within the boundaries of the 71st Precinct, an area east of Prospect Park that has a history of producing attention-grabbing crime headlines, including a riot involving blacks and Hasidic Jews in 1991, an arson that killed two adults and two children in 2005, and a string of four unrelated murders in less than a month in 2006. 
 But like the rest of the city, the precinct has seen a significant decline in violent crime, and residents who lived through the crime-ridden years of the 1980s and early 1990s say the area is a far calmer place. Still, while the overall picture is more benign, there are streets where violence remains a regular occurrence. 
 The shooting of the police officers occurred two days after a man on a spree of violence that involved two carjackings and a shooting, beginning in the 71st Precinct, was shot and killed by the police a few blocks north in the 77th Precinct.
 ''It's like the Wild West out here; you hear shots all the time,'' said Robert Szymczak, 53, who lives at the intersection where the police were shot yesterday. He said he was awakened by the gunfire. ''The neighborhood is changing,'' he added, ''but after this, we are not going to get people to move in.''
 Still, many longtime residents say outbursts of sensational crime will not undermine the neighborhood's transition, which is reflected in police statistics. ''Crime was rampant in the '80s, but it has changed since then,'' said Danna Hebbard, 63, who has lived on Lefferts Avenue since 1957, less than a block from the site of yesterday's shooting.
 ''This is the new Park Slope,'' Ms. Hebbard said, referring to the Brooklyn neighborhood on the opposite side of Prospect Park that has long been a magnet for prosperous families.
 The police said that crime in the seven most serious categories -- including murder, rape and robbery -- was down 3 percent in the precinct this year through Sunday, compared with the same period last year. Arrests were down 28 percent.
 The crime category with the largest drop was murder: there have been six so far this year, compared with 11 a year ago. The number of shootings dropped to 15, from 22 in the same period last year. Rape, however, has increased. There have been 16 reported rapes so far this year, compared with 4 during the same period in 2006.
 The overall decrease in serious crime continued a trend. The police said that annual crime totals in the 71st Precinct fell 73 percent from 1998 through last year.
 But the improvement has not been consistent. In 2005, there were 21 murders in the precinct, a sharp increase -- the largest in the city -- from 9 in 2004.
 None of the crime statistics reflect the stark cultural and economic contrasts in the precinct, which encompasses Prospect-Lefferts Gardens and the southern edge of Crown Heights. Flanked by the leafy edge of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, it is an urban landscape with ornate, mostly well-tended limestone residences, throbbing commercial strips of Caribbean souvenir and jerk shops, a huge enclave of Hasidic Jews, and large clusters of public housing.
 ''It's block by block around here,'' said Harry Henri, 42, a lab technician who grew up in the precinct. ''The next block over can be a different world. Generally, I feel like things are getting better, because I was here when it was really bad. But there will always be bumps in the road.''
 Longtime residents describe waves of change in racial composition since World War II, and racial tensions that have eased greatly but sometimes still boil to the surface. Myrna Hobdy, 69, who has lived on Lefferts Avenue since 1954, said hers was the third black family to buy a home on the block, breaking through an economic barrier that had consigned blacks to the status of renters.
 In the 1960s and 1970s, Ms. Hobdy said, few whites moved into the neighborhood. ''It was very unusual to find caucasian people renting from black people,'' she said.
 Jane Thomason, who bought a three-apartment building and moved to the neighborhood in 1973, said that she and her husband had to overcome lending practices that excluded white buyers. She said she banded together with a group of other whites, who threatened to withdraw their savings and found other ways to put pressure on the lenders.
 ''The racism that we knew before is simply not happening now,'' Ms. Thomason said.
 Still, a weekend punctuated by gunfire has provided a jolt that is giving some residents cause to tread cautiously.
 ''This is going to make it hard for people to walk the streets,'' said James Bynum, 32, a butcher, who said he heard yesterday's gunshots.
 Until the officers' assailants are caught, he said, ''People will be scared to talk to the cops, because the people who did this live around here.''

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The 71st Police Precinct'' The 71st Precinct, in Brooklyn, where two officers were shot yesterday, has generally seen a drop in crimes this year. Gray shade indicates the year crime numbers were higher. (Source: New York City Police Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); MURDER (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); FAMILY (78%); RIOTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); CRIME STATISTICS (77%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (75%); TRENDS (74%); ARSON (72%); CARJACKING (72%); RELIGION (71%); STATISTICS (68%); JEWS & JUDAISM (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007



192 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Two Men Who Are Faces of a New Force That Has Broken the Old Stereotypes

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN; Reporting was contributed by Kai Ma, Colin Moynihan, Maureen Seaberg and Michael Wilson.

 BODY:
The men in the stolen BMW didn't know it, but the two officers who pulled them over in Brooklyn early yesterday were practically a poster for the changing face of the New York Police Department. Approaching the car on the passenger's side was a Soviet immigrant and star economics student who had dropped out of college to chase bad guys. Along the driver's side came the son of a seamstress from Hong Kong.
 A man in the BMW fired out the passenger's side, then shots came out the driver's side, the police said, and the two partners on the graveyard shift, Russel Timoshenko, 23, and Herman Yan, 26, joined a more exclusive and unfortunate fraternity: officers shot in the line of duty. 
 As doctors at Kings County Hospital Center labored furiously to keep Officer Timoshenko alive and Officer Yan lay nearby recovering from bullet wounds to the chest and arm, their friends, families and colleagues hoped for their recovery.
 ''I'm just praying for a miracle,'' said Victoria Gentile, a neighbor of Officer Timoshenko's on Staten Island whose son grew up with him and now serves on the police force, too. ''He's just starting out his young life.''
 Both men's lives on the force were off to a good start. Officer Timoshenko, who joined the force in January 2006, has made 15 arrests, three of them for felonies, the police said. Officer Yan, who has worked nights in the 71st Precinct since graduating from the police academy in 2004, has made 36 arrests. 
 Like all police officers, Officer Timoshenko was aware of the risks that went with the uniform. But he told one friend, Alexandra Kuznetsova, ''You know, this is my job. This is what I really want to do.'' Ms. Kuznetsova, 24, said her friend took his vows seriously. ''He was always there for people,'' she said. 
 Officer Timoshenko, who was born in Belarus and came to the United States in the early 1990s, led a seemingly charmed life. Tall, blond, handsome and athletic, he was on the lacrosse team at City College of New York. ''Very charismatic,'' said a college classmate, Guy Marcelus, who visited him at the hospital yesterday. 
 ''You never saw him walking alone,'' said Leonard Trugman, one of Mr. Timoshenko's professors.
 Sonya Mechkor, a friend who has known the officer for five years, said it hardly mattered the occasion -- dancing, hookah bars, Indian restaurants -- Officer Timoshenko loved to have a good time. 
 ''He'd be laughing and dancing and all over the place, kind of a social butterfly,'' she said.
 At the same time, he was a serious and gifted student.
 ''He was very entrepreneurial,'' Professor Trugman said. ''He was an A student -- he could have gone onto whatever he wanted to do. He could have had an M.B.A. -- a very bright young man, very analytical.''
 Mr. Marcelus said that he was surprised when his friend told him he wanted to join the police force. ''I figured Russel was going to be a businessman,'' Mr. Marcelus said. ''The N.Y.P.D. never came up while we were in the classroom.'' 
 But once he made up his mind, Mr. Marcelus said, Officer Timoshenko spoke of little else. Another friend, Dmitri Levin, said he tried to talk Mr. Timoshenko out of joining the police force, to no avail. ''I tried to convince him to pursue other careers, more lucrative,'' said Mr. Levin, 23. ''But he was dead set on being an N.Y.P.D. officer.''
 At the police academy, Cadets Timoshenko and Yan took their places among the young men and women who are making the old stereotype of the New York City police officer -- Irish or Italian, staunchly Roman Catholic, descended from a long line of cops -- a thing of the past. 
 In 2005, the police academy graduated its first class that was less than half white, with Asian-Americans, who made up 8 percent of the class, the fastest-growing ethnic group on the force. Last December, the graduating cadets hailed from 58 nations, including half a dozen former Soviet republics.
 On a force where many members chose to live in the suburbs, both officers stayed in the city where they grew up. 
 Officer Timoshenko lives with his parents in a neatly landscaped ranch house in Bay Terrace on Staten Island. 
 Officer Yan, who was born in Manhattan, lives with a brother and his mother in a brick townhouse on a quiet side street in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, off Sheepshead Bay Road, a bustling strip where a smattering of Chinese shops are surrounded by signs in Russian.
 A neighbor, Gary Chu, summed up the sentiment on the street.
 ''I was shocked this morning,'' he said. ''It was very sad. He's a nice guy.''
 One neighbor said her heart went out to Officer Yan's family. ''I come from a family of cops,'' she said. ''All my brothers are retired officers, and I can't imagine the heartache.''
 She thought a moment. ''Unfortunately,'' she added, ''that's the chance you take when a police officer is your son.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Officer Herman Yan, left, is the son of a seamstress from Hong Kong. His partner, Officer Russel Timoshenko, emigrated from Belarus. (Photograph by New York Police Department via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (89%); MEN (78%); FELONIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (76%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (63%); RESTAURANTS (60%); LACROSSE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); BELARUS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007



193 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Army Misses Its June Goal For Signing New Recruits

BYLINE: By DAVID S. CLOUD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 9 

 BODY:
The Army missed its recruiting goals in June for the second straight month, as rising casualties in Iraq and a strong economy at home kept the service from enlisting enough new soldiers, Pentagon officials said.
 The Army fell more than 1,000 active duty recruits short of its June goal of 8,400, said a Pentagon official who spoke on condition of anonymity because the figures had not yet been formally released. 
 Lt. Col. Dan Baggio, an Army spokesman, declined to confirm the numbers, which are due to be made public on Tuesday, but he acknowledged that there had been a shortfall. 
 ''We're not in a doomsday situation,'' Colonel Baggio said. ''When we don't make the goal, that is something of a concern, but we are not panicking.'' 
 He said that the National Guard and the Reserves met their recruiting goals for June and that the numbers of soldiers signing up for additional years of service was strong. He declined to elaborate. 
 In May, the Army fell 400 enlistees short of its goal of 5,500, the first time in two years that the active force failed to meet its monthly target. The downturn has coincided with sharply higher casualty numbers in Iraq, where 331 American soldiers were killed from April to June, the highest three-month level of the war.
 The downturn is particularly worrisome to Pentagon officials, especially because it has come in the summer, when recruiters normally find more fresh high school graduates eager to join.
 ''One of the greatest challenges of an all-volunteer force is recruiting in a protracted war, and I think you are seeing that,'' a Pentagon official said.
 Colonel Baggio pointed out that the Army was still on track to meet its yearly target of 80,000 new recruits because recruiting exceeded goals for several months earlier this year. 
 In contrast to the Army, the Marine Corps will report that it met its recruiting goals in June, said an official who declined to provide further specifics.
 The recruiting demands on the Army have increased this year, as the service has embarked on a five-year effort to increase its active-duty strength to 547,000, from the currently authorized level of 514,000. The plan was announced by the Pentagon in January as a way to ease the strain on the Army in coming years of conducting continual deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 Colonel Baggio said that -- aside from those conflicts -- recruiting had been hurt by the fact that 7 in 10 potential recruits in their late teens and early 20s do not meet Army standards, largely because they are too heavy or failed to graduate from high school.
 Recruiting may also have been harmed by the fact that soldiers are now required to serve 15-month tours in Iraq or Afghanistan, an increase from the previous requirement of 12 months. The longer tours were imposed to sustain a Bush administration decision earlier this year to send an additional 30,000 troops to Iraq. 
 Early in the war in Iraq, the Pentagon's goal was for active-duty troops to spend two years at home for every year deployed. Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said the Army eventually wanted to return to those goals. That will have to await either a reduction in overall force levels, however, or an increase in the size of the military, which has been set in motion but will take years to accomplish.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY RECRUITING (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007



194 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: Get Me to the Marriage Bureau On Time (45 Minutes Early)

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
For some couples in the Bronx lately, it has been easy to fall in love, but hard to get married.
 Romantic commitment has taken them through the doors of the Bronx County Building on the Grand Concourse, down the hall from the Surrogate's Court record room to a brown door next to three pay phones. This is the home of the Bronx Marriage Bureau, where lovers go to marry quickly, officially and economically ($25, payable by money order only). 
 Yet in recent weeks, the office, one of five marriage bureaus run by the Office of the City Clerk, has been criticized for turning away couples before closing time. The charges are serious enough to warrant an internal investigation by the office of Victor L. Robles, the city clerk. 
 As a result, a little-known niche in the city bureaucracy -- Room B-131 -- is at the center of a bona fide New York controversy, and a story probably more colorful than anything on the 1930s radio serial starring Molly Goldberg that was called ''The Bronx Marriage Bureau.'' 
 This real-life melodrama involves political intrigue, a white sport utility vehicle, a tattooed whistle-blower, a factory romance and, of course, the rough poetry of the tabloids (''Bronx Clerk Jerks -- New Marital Diss,'' read a headline last month in The New York Post). 
 The office had been one of the happiest spots in the county building, a mammoth structure the novelist Tom Wolfe referred to in ''The Bonfire of the Vanities'' as ''the island fortress of Gibraltar.'' 
 It is open Monday to Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m., excluding legal holidays. Couples -- black, Hispanic, Jewish, Middle Eastern -- stand in the hallway outside the room, hugging relatives as they wait for their names to be called on an intercom. 
 Brides often dress in white gowns, the hems of their dresses inches from the scuffed but polished beige floor. 
 The trouble started in late May, when a couple seeking a marriage license was told that the office had closed an hour early for a retirement party for someone who worked there. The couple, who told reporters that they met in a box-making factory and were so in love that they were fired for being unproductive, sought the help of the news media in the county building's press room. 
 The office was eventually reopened for them, but the young man had a fake ID, and they left, empty-handed.
 Then, on June 19, two other couples were turned away, though they had arrived before 4 p.m. Simone Green, 31, said her husband-to-be, Orville Collins, 28, got to the office at 3:12 and then went to the hallway to get her. When they returned to the line at 3:17, they were told by a female supervisor that no more ceremonies were being performed.
 Her cousin, who Ms. Green said had flown in from London just for the occasion, told the supervisor that she was flying back the next day. ''I don't care,'' Ms. Green quoted the supervisor as responding. ''It's done. I sent away two other couples. Why should I do you?''
 Minutes later, reporters were again summoned to Room B-131. And the two couples were soon married, by the same supervisor who had initially refused them. 
 The rite turned Ms. Green, an administrative assistant, into Mrs. Green-Collins. ''It's not like we were going to have a big ceremony,'' she said.
 She said the supervisor had shown them a piece of paper that advised couples to be in the office by 3:15 p.m. to be wed. Information on the city clerk's telephone line and Web site includes the same instructions: ''For your convenience, it is best to arrive at our offices no later than 3:15 p.m. for a civil marriage ceremony.''
 Michael McSweeney, the first deputy city clerk, said the investigation into what happened at the Bronx Marriage Bureau was continuing. ''We appreciate that these matters were brought to our attention and we are looking at them seriously,'' he said.
 He said no couple seeking a marriage ceremony who has the required materials and witnesses should be turned away before 4 p.m. 
 Three-fifteen, Mr. McSweeney added, ''is meant as a suggestion.'' 
 But Jerome Lawson, 24, a clerical assistant in the Bronx office who was fired in late June, said 3:15 was often treated as a strict cutoff time for ceremonies. 
 ''It was a schedule; 3:15 was the cutoff point,'' said Mr. Lawson, who worked in the office about a year.
 Mr. Lawson -- yes, he's the one with the tattoos -- said he was fired for attempting to file a complaint about his boss, Carmen Baez, who oversees the Bronx office. She is the daughter of Councilwoman Maria Baez of the Bronx. Councilwoman Baez is a former aide to Assemblyman Jose Rivera, the Bronx Democratic chairman. 
 Mr. Lawson said that Ms. Baez would regularly arrive late and leave early, with her mother often picking her up outside the county building in a white S.U.V.
 ''Even when we were short-staffed, she would still leave early and wouldn't help us,'' Mr. Lawson said. 
 Mr. McSweeney, who said he was the only one in the office authorized to speak to reporters, declined to comment on allegations made by Mr. Lawson concerning Ms. Baez and declined to state the reason Mr. Lawson had been terminated. 
 Councilwoman Baez declined to comment. 
 One recent Friday, Sheila Evans, 48, and Leroy Ball, 59, ran down the hall toward the marriage bureau. They had simple plans but elaborate outfits for their big day: matching light-purple suits. 
 But the door was locked. A sign on the door said office hours were from 8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. It was 4:02. Ms. Evans pleaded with an office worker who opened the door, but the worker was not moved by their explanation that they had been stuck in traffic in a cab.
 Ms. Evans said court officers had told her on the way in that the marriage bureau closed at 4:30. She said she had called the office from the cab and was told to come on over.
 A court officer appeared and began arguing, not with Ms. Evans and Mr. Ball, but with the office worker. The court officer said he had been told that the marriage bureau was open until 4:30 p.m. ''The sign's on the door,'' the office worker told the officer. ''It says 4 o'clock.'' 
 The exchange grew heated. Ms. Evans, whose 7-day-old granddaughter slept in a stroller, grew frantic and began crying. 
 Meanwhile, another couple and their relatives, who had been waiting in the hallway when Ms. Evans and Mr. Ball arrived, were called inside. That couple emerged from the office at 4:21 p.m., officially husband and wife. 
 ''This is ridiculous,'' Ms. Evans said. ''I can't believe this.''
 Mr. McSweeney described the situation involving Ms. Evans and Mr. Ball as a misunderstanding. ''There was no reason why court personnel should be telling people that we close at 4:30,'' Mr. McSweeney said. 
 Staff members, he said, are instructed to close the office promptly at 4 p.m. On the day Ms. Evans and Mr. Ball came to the office, he said, 45 civil marriage ceremonies had been performed there. In June, the office performed 508 weddings, with Manhattan conducting the most of the five bureaus, 1,414. 
 ''We do not allow the office to stay open beyond 4 o'clock,'' Mr. McSweeney said. ''It wouldn't be fair to people if we made an exception to that rule, and it would make it harder for us to conduct the administrative work that is required at the end of the day.'' 
 Ms. Evans and Mr. Ball returned to Room B-131 last Thursday, this time in the morning, and this time in jeans. ''It took three minutes to actually marry us,'' she said. ''I can't see how that three minutes made a difference.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Couples complain that the Bronx Marriage Bureau deadline is really 3:15 p.m., not 4.(pg. B1)
 Nickki Sinanan and William Ayala after their wedding on Friday in the Bronx Marriage Bureau. (Photograph by Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York)(pg. B5), Christine Cwiekalo and Ojada Rosario waiting on Friday outside the Marriage Bureau, in the Bronx County Building on the Grand Concourse. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (94%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (69%); WRITERS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007



195 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Growing Talk of Jordanian Role in Palestinian Affairs

BYLINE: By HASSAN M. FATTAH

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, July 6 

 BODY:
Inside a drab cellphone shop, set deep inside the sprawling Baqaa refugee camp on the outskirts of this city, Muhammad Khalil and his friends were as gloomy as the fluorescent lights that flickered on the ceiling. 
 ''Everything has been ruined for us -- we've been fighting for 60 years and nothing is left,'' Mr. Khalil said, speaking of the Palestinian cause. Just weeks earlier, he might have been speaking enthusiastically to his friends here, in their usual hangout, about resistance, of fighting for his rights as a Palestinian and of one day returning to a Palestinian state. 
 Last Wednesday, however, he spoke of what he saw as a less satisfying goal for the Palestinians here and one that raises concerns for many other Jordanians: Palestinian union with Jordan.
 ''It would be better if Jordan ran things in Palestine, if King Abdullah could take control of the West Bank,'' Mr. Khalil said, as his friends nodded. ''The issue would be over if Jordan just took control.'' 
 Even a few months ago, talk of some kind of Palestinian union with Jordan would have sounded quaint or even conspiratorial, 40 years after Jordan lost control of the West Bank in the 1967 war and nearly two decades after King Abdullah's father, King Hussein, formally ceded administrative control of the territory to the Palestinians. 
 But as the Palestinian territories have been engulfed in turmoil, with Gaza and the West Bank now divided economically and politically, as well as physically, talk of a less ambitious, but no less delicate, federation between Jordan and the West Bank has begun rippling through many Jordanian and Palestinian circles.
 Some Palestinians who have begun speaking of the subject see Jordan as a last resort to bring about security and stability to the West Bank and to prevent it from falling under the control of the militant Hamas faction, as Gaza has. Israeli officials who have spoken of the idea also say Jordan could help peace efforts by taking over security conditions -- shorthand, many fear, for Jordan inheriting Israeli responsibility for security there. In any event, when Israel and the United States have spoken of a Palestinian state, they have talked of a demilitarized one, so some solution for Palestinian national security would be needed.
 Jordanian commentators also have begun warning that talk of a union could put an end to the Palestinian national project and put Jordan itself in peril.
 ''You have a scenario-building exercise going on; Jordan is dealing with complex politics and they are trying to see where they will land and where it will leave the country,'' said Oraib al-Rantawi, director of the Al Quds Center for Political Studies in Amman, speaking of the debate about federation. ''Jordan has not yet decided on this issue, but it's clear the debate has begun.''
 The nature of any possible union has many iterations. Some see it as possible oversight of the Palestinian territories by Jordan while others see it as a partnership between two nations. But King Abdullah's position was clear. 
 In an interview with the daily newspaper Al Ghad on July 1, he sought to put to rest rumors of a possible change in policy on the matter. ''I say clearly that the idea of confederation or federation, or what is called administrative responsibility, is a conspiracy against the Palestinian cause, and Jordan will not involve itself in it,'' he said. ''The Jordanians refuse any settlement of the Palestinian issue at their expense.'' 
 Ayman Safadi, editor in chief of al Ghad, who interviewed the king, said: ''He was extremely blunt in the interview. No discussion. It's a no-go.''
 Some analysts, however, said the king's response helped underscore the level of pressure Jordan may be facing.
 ''King Abdullah made himself clear on more than one occasion,'' said Musa Shtewi, professor of sociology at the University of Jordan. ''But by having to do so, it means there's a lot of pressure being put on Jordan to do this.''
 King Hussein, Abdullah's father, lost the West Bank during the 1967 war and had long hoped to one day reunite both sides of the Jordan River, Professor Shtewi and other analysts said. In 1988, however, he formally disengaged from the territory in a major policy shift that made the Palestine Liberation Organization the sole body responsible for the administration of the Palestinian areas.
 Jordanian and Palestinian academics have long talked of the possibility of a political and economic federation. But after Yasir Arafat signed the Oslo peace treaty with the Israelis in 1993, Jordan's official policy on federation became predicated on the formation of a Palestinian state.
 The issue of union has become especially delicate among native Jordanians, who fear that it could further empower Jordan's large number of residents of Palestinian origin, estimated to be up to 60 percent of the population, at their political expense.
 ''This used to be an academic issue that never died away,'' said Professor Shtewi, speaking of confederation. ''But now, it has become a political and even an existential issue too.''
 Rumors began circulating in May that Jordan might be rethinking its position, when Abdul-Salam al-Majali, a former prime minister, was the host of a meeting of Jordanian, Israeli and Palestinian peace advocates in the Red Sea Port of Aqaba to discuss ways of reinvigorating peace efforts. Mr. Majali, in an interview, said the issue of union never came up. 
 But many Jordanian analysts and columnists reported that the meeting touched on the principles of establishing a confederation as a means to breaking the impasse in the peace efforts. Many analysts saw the meeting as a trial balloon intended to gauge the level of interest and resistance to such a move. 
 ''They don't really want this, but they wanted to see what their options would be if it was forced on them,'' said Muhammad Abu Rumman, a columnist with Al Ghad, referring to the Jordanian government. ''Most people will tell you that the confederation scenario is going to happen. The only question is when.''
 Palestinian activists, however, warn against taking Palestinian desire for stability as a serious change in their politics. 
 ''Some Palestinians may regard this as a kind of solution, a way out of the problem for them,'' said Talat Abu Othman, leader of the Jordanian chapter of the High Committee to Protect the Right of Return. ''But these are temporary solutions and temporary solutions don't fix the problem. Without a right of return, without rights, you will solve nothing.'' 
 Mr. Khalil and his friends in the cellphone shop figure, however, that the wait is growing more difficult by the day. ''Jordan wants peace for us,'' he said. ''Jordan wants us to get our rights.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 11, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the increasing possibility of a Jordanian role in Palestinian affairs referred incorrectly in some copies to the year that King Hussein of Jordan formally ceded administrative control of the West Bank to the Palestinians. It was 1988, not 1998.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Palestinian women walking past a graffiti-filled wall last week at the refugee camp in Jordan. One of the slogans says, ''Palestine Till Death.''
 A shop owner in the Baqaa refugee camp outside of Amman, Jordan. Many Palestinians want Jordan to assume control of the West Bank. (Photographs by Tamara Abdul Hadi for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); HAMAS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%); PEACE PROCESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (93%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); JORDAN (97%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2007



196 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: A Good, if Not Great, Deal

 BODY:
Congress faces a difficult choice as it debates whether to approve the free trade agreement with South Korea. The benefits for the United States will likely never live up to the Bush administration's enthusiastic claims. Still, South Korea is the world's 10th biggest economy, America's seventh largest trading partner and a key ally in an important corner of the world. A pact that draws the two countries closer is well worth supporting. 
 Despite its free trade sloganeering, the administration's record on trade is paltry. It has failed to advance global trade negotiations and has backed off from the bold vision of a free trade area of the Americas, resorting instead to a string of modest bilateral trade agreements with countries like Panama and Morocco and now South Korea.
 There is some reason to worry that this country-by-country approach may actually hinder the cause of global free trade, entangling the world in a web of incompatible rules. Having to go back to Congress time and again for approval has also fanned antitrade sentiments. While each deal produces winners that create new jobs, the old jobs that will be lost are the ones that inevitably draw the most attention. 
 That political -- rather than economic -- calculus is behind the Democratic leadership's decision last week to back away from a deal with the White House that would have guaranteed Congressional approval of trade pacts with Peru and Panama. And it is behind the leadership's announcement that it will oppose the South Korea free trade agreement because it doesn't do enough to pry open Seoul's heavily protected automobile market, while it opens the American market to Korean auto exports. 
 There is no question that Detroit would be a loser. But there would be more winners. The agreement would open up South Korea's highly protected financial sector to American banks and other financial companies. American farmers would also benefit, as tariffs immediately drop to zero on a broad range of agricultural exports and phase out over time on many others. The American economy would come out ahead.
 The Democrats may well win more votes in Detroit -- and beyond -- by opposing this and other trade deals. But they would do a lot more for American workers and the economy if they instead focused their energy on broadening the safety net to deal with the dislocations wrought by free trade and other economic forces on vulnerable workers. And if the Bush administration really believes in free trade, that's a fight it needs to join. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); JOB CREATION (71%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (64%); AGRICULTURE (61%)

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (78%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); PERU (79%); MOROCCO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2007



197 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: China June Trade Surplus Renews Currency Pressure

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, July 10 

 BODY:
The politically sensitive Chinese trade surplus surged to a record $26.9 billion in June, potentially heightening tensions with the United States and increasing pressure on China to allow its currency to appreciate.
 The figures suggested that incremental adjustments by the Beijing authorities in the value of the currency, the yuan, had so far done little to alter a trade picture that has angered American lawmakers and some business groups in Washington.
 Some of the increase in the surplus may have resulted from a push by major Chinese exporters to ship goods before government export tax rebates expired on July 1, a move to reduce incentives for domestic companies to produce energy-intensive goods for the global economy. 
 But the hefty surplus, which increased 27 percent from June 2006, also reflected slowing growth in imports. Imports in June expanded at a relatively modest 14 percent compared with the year before.
 The yuan has been allowed to appreciate by a little over 9 percent since China broke the currency's fixed tie to the United States dollar two years ago. The Bush administration and members of Congress have pressed Beijing to allow the yuan to rise much faster, with some arguing that it be allowed to appreciate by a third or more against the dollar.
 Several leading senators are backing legislation that would allow American companies to request steep antidumping duties against countries that keep their currencies artificially undervalued to gain a trade advantage. If the measure is enacted, China will probably be the major target of such petitions.
 The export surge also comes as China has faced heavy pressure to crack down on companies that export counterfeit or shoddy goods that led to safety problems in the United States and other countries.
 The overall Chinese trade surplus for the first six months was $112.5 billion, up 84 percent from a year earlier. Its trade surplus for all of 2006 was $177.5 billion.
 Export-driven growth is unusual for a major continental economy like China's. Similar economies usually rely more on domestic investment and consumption than on exports to stimulate growth.
 Goldman Sachs estimated that the Chinese export surplus in the first half of the year equaled about 8 percent of the gross domestic product. The surplus in the first half of 2006 equaled 6.3 percent of its output.
 On the whole, China depends more on domestic investment and consumption than on exports to generate its growth. But no large economy in recent history, including Japan's in its productive heyday, has had such high trade surpluses in relation to total output, Goldman said.
 ''This level of trade surplus is unprecedented for China or any other major economy in the world,'' Hong Liang, a Goldman economist in Hong Kong, said in a research note. ''This again highlights the ineffectiveness of the policy tinkerings that have so far failed to tackle the root cause of China's bloating trade surplus: the significantly undervalued currency.''
 Some Chinese officials and private economists said they expected exports to cool in the second half of 2007. Export tax rebates adopted in the late '90s to stimulate a then-slumping Chinese economy have been phased out in many industries.
 But the central planning agency, the National Development and Reform Commission, has forecast a total surplus of at least $250 billion in 2007, which suggests a continued rapid growth in exports and a slower growth in imports.
 In contrast to the first part of this decade, China now has a large surplus with many trading partners, including the European Union. Previously, its trade surplus was attributable mainly to its oversize gap with the United States. The surplus with Washington reached $14 billion in June, while that with the European Union was $11 billion.
 Even so, many economists argue that China is serious about reducing imbalances in its economic development, including the trade surplus.
 Chinese leaders have repeatedly pledged to raise domestic consumption as a source of growth, relying less on investment and net exports.
 ''The government is taking significant steps to discourage exports of goods that consume resources that China does not have,'' said Andy Rothman, a CLSA Emerging Markets economist in Shanghai.
 But he said those measures were aimed more at China's energy and environmental issues, and not specifically at reducing its trade surplus.
 Over time, he said, trade should come more into balance, but possibly not fast enough to ease tension with Washington. ''The problem for China,'' he added, ''is that there is very little it can do in the short term to reduce the size of the U.S. trade deficit.'' 
 Mr. Rothman said the value of the yuan was not the most important factor in the Chinese trade picture. American exports to China have increased 188 percent since 2001, a much faster pace of growth than the United States has had with any other major trading partner, despite what some economists argue is the yuan's artificially low purchasing power.
 ''This is a very long-term structural problem that the Chinese are as eager as anybody else to fix,'' Mr. Rothman said. ''But we have to recognize that it will take more time.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); TAX RELIEF (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); CONSUMPTION (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); COUNTERFEITING (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); JAPAN (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2007



198 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Citing Weak Housing Market, Home Depot and Sears Lower Estimates

BYLINE: By ANGEL JENNINGS

 BODY:
Retailers are starting to feel the effects of the housing slump, with two big-name merchants announcing yesterday that they were cutting back their forecasts for profit over the next few months as sales of home improvement items fall and consumer confidence weakens. 
 Home Depot, the world's largest home improvement store, and Sears Holdings, the biggest department store company in the country, said they expected second-quarter net income to drop far more than they anticipated just two months ago. 
 Home Depot, based in Atlanta, said its earnings per share would decline by 15 to 18 percent for the fiscal year. In May, the company estimated a 9 percent decline, but that was before it announced the sale of its contractor supply company, HD Supply.
 Sears, which also runs Kmart, has been recording shrinking sales since it united with the struggling discount chain in 2005. The company, based in Hoffman Estates, Ill., said it expected net income to be $160 million to $200 million. In the corresponding period last year, net income was $294 million.
 Home Depot blamed a weakening housing market and the sale of its contractor unit. Sears acknowledged that it needed ''to become more relevant'' to its customers and to do more to control its costs. Analysts said both companies were the victims of the sluggish housing industry. 
 ''Consumers have the money in their pockets, but they are just not spending it,'' said Markus Schomer, a global economic strategist at AIG Investments, ''because they see the negative headlines about the housing market, and they are scared.''
 Mr. Schomer said the climate was ''supportive for a robust economy.'' The main drivers of spending, job growth and income growth, remain relatively stable. And last month, the Commerce Department reported strong retail sales in May, reflecting an expanding economy.
 But mortgage rates have been rising and the troubles in the subprime mortgage business, which gave loans to people with poor credit, have become more widespread. Reports about delinquencies and foreclosures have made consumers more reluctant to spend money, he said. 
 The retail sales report for June will be released on Friday, and analysts and others are predicting a decrease in spending. ''This appears to be a spillover effect from the downturn in the housing market,'' said James O'Sullivan, an economist from UBS.
 A slumping housing industry affects consumer spending in more ways than one, he said. Not only are consumers less willing to shop, they are also hesitant to do home repairs and buy appliances. 
 Sears said sales at Kmart stores, a leader in tools, home appliances and lawn and garden equipment, declined across most categories, except for a small increase in purchases of women's apparel and footwear. Home appliance sales fell more sharply than most other categories. 
 ''Although we believe our business has suffered from many of the same factors that have led other retailers to announce disappointing results and lowered expectations,'' Aylwin B. Lewis, Sears Holdings' chief executive, said in a news release, ''our recent performance underscores our ongoing need to become more relevant to consumers while improving our discipline around expense management.'' 
 Though Home Depot forecast a sales decline of as much as 2 percent and a revenue drop in the mid-single digits, the company said it would continue with plans to open 108 stores this fiscal year. 
 ''While we expect the housing market to remain challenging for the rest of 2007 and into 2008, we plan to continue our reinvestment plans,'' Carol B. Tome, the chief financial officer and executive vice president for corporate services at Home Depot, said in a news release. 
 Both retailers plan to buy back some of their stock. Last month, Home Depot announced a buyback valued at $22.5 billion. Yesterday, the company announced an offer to buy as many as 250 million shares for $39 to $44 apiece. 
 Sears said yesterday that it would repurchase an additional $1 billion in shares. 
 Analysts forecast more sales declines from retailers as the softness in housing continues. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A shopper studying an environmentally friendly washing machine at a Home Depot store in Manhattan. Some economists say that a housing slump like the current one discourages appliance purchases. (Photograph by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); HOME CENTERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (67%); MORTGAGE BANKING (67%); SUBPRIME LENDING (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); MORTGAGE RATES (62%); INTEREST RATES (62%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (50%)

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (95%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (58%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (95%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); SHLD (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2007



199 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Season Jitters Send Shares Down

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks plunged yesterday as investors, nervous about earnings reports, cringed at troubling forecasts from two retailers, Home Depot and Sears, and at soaring oil prices. 
 The market seemed to be following the pattern of previous earnings seasons, turning lower as second-quarter reports had a rocky start. Home Depot, Sears and the home builder D. R. Horton offered dreary outlooks that suggested the sluggish housing market may cut consumer spending. 
 ''People are a little bit skittish about the health of the consumer,'' said Jack Caffrey, equities strategist at JPMorgan Private Bank.
 As the dollar tumbled and investors fled to the relative safety of Treasury bonds, the stock market dropped further after oil prices briefly spiked above $73 a barrel, raising concerns about energy bills.
 Wall Street also weakened because of the ratings agency Standard & Poor's, which said it might lower the credit rating of more than $12 billion in bonds backed by risky home loans. Such loans are sold by some of the nation's largest banks.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 148.27 points, or 1.09 percent, to 13,501.70, near its low of the session. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 21.73 points, or 1.42 percent, to 1,510.12, while the Nasdaq composite index dropped 30.86 points, or 1.16 percent, to 2,639.16.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 15.76 points, or 1.85 percent, to 837.48.
 Bond prices rose. The price of the 10-year Treasury note gained 28/32, to 95 31/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, declined to 5.02 percent, from 5.14 percent on Monday. 
 The dollar dropped to a new low versus the euro, and to a 26-year low against the British pound. The euro hit a record $1.3738 yesterday before retreating to $1.3729. In New York trading, the pound was at $2.0267, up from $2.0151 Monday.
 A speech by the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, in Cambridge, Mass., did not offer much insight into the central bank's next move on interest rates, and instead focused on how the Fed makes its inflation-fighting decisions.
 The August contract for crude oil climbed 62 cents, to $72.81 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, after briefly surpassing $73 a barrel.
 The financial and retail sectors experienced significant losses on jitters about subprime lending and consumer spending. JPMorgan Chase, American Express and Wal-Mart were the big losers among the 30 Dow companies.
 D. R. Horton fell 39 cents, or 2 percent, to $19.40. Home Depot rose 2 cents, to $40.25, after saying it would begin a tender offer for 250 million shares of its common stock.
 Not all of yesterday's guidance was disappointing. Pepsi Bottling, one of the world's largest distributors of PepsiCo drinks, raised its outlook for full-year earnings, and its stock rose $1.31, to $35.74.
 General Motors and Ford Motor also gained after a JPMorgan analyst upgraded the shares of both automakers. G.M. rose 64 cents, to $37.41, and Ford jumped 1 cent, to $9.09.
 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by nearly three to one on the New York Stock Exchange, where consolidated volume was 3.20 billion shares.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills:

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); COMMON STOCK (79%); TENDER OFFERS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); STOCK OFFERINGS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); BRITISH POUND (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (95%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); D R HORTON INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (95%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); DHI (NYSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2007



200 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Not One Pied-a-Terre, but Three

BYLINE: By ARIANE BERNARD

 BODY:
On paper, the story of Laurie Pike would make anybody envious. A style director for Los Angeles Magazine, she jets four times a year from Los Angeles to Paris, where she has not one, but three, pieds-a-terre, in three very different parts of the city. 
 But hers is not the story of a silver-spoon life. Rather, it is about learning to turn difficult situations into opportunities. 
 ''In 2001, my business went under -- a magazine in L.A. called Glue -- and I was $100,000 in debt,'' said Ms. Pike, 44, sitting on a blue pullout couch in her studio in Montmartre. Yet, four years after entering a debt-management program, Ms. Pike suddenly found herself receiving her paycheck as supervisor of fashion coverage at the influential Los Angeles monthly magazine -- much more money than she had learned to rely on -- and decided to invest. 
 Buying in Los Angeles did not appeal to Ms. Pike, who says that although she finds it the easiest city to live in, she is turned off by its natural instability: ''the earthquakes, the landslides, the fires.'' 
 And then there is the cost. Prices vary widely across the sprawling city. In the once-again chic area of Hollywood, apartments average $640 a square foot, not necessarily including taxes, utilities or maintenance costs, while small apartments in Paris average a bit less, and those charges are included.
 Ms. Pike spent time in Paris over 20 years ago as a student at the Sorbonne. On a recent visit there she realized that mortgage rates were affordable -- about 5 percent -- and property values were not as costly as she had thought. She went on the hunt for an apartment. 
 The third one she saw was a studio on the Rue Nobel, a short street in Montmartre that has access to the stairs of Rue du Mont Cenis -- a picturesque site for which this Parisian neighborhood on a hill is known. Ms. Pike had lived in the neighborhood when she was a student.
 She bought the place in 2006 for 148,000 euros ($176,000 at the time), and spent 9,000 euros ($10,700) on renovations. The 22-square-meter, or almost 237-square-foot ground-floor studio, which has a glass chandelier, also has a small bar to separate the kitchen area from the rest of the room; the bathroom has a bathtub. To supplement a 20 percent down payment, Ms. Pike got a mortgage with a French bank that she found through a broker, French Home Finance. She generally rents out the apartment, which generates enough income to cover the mortgage, taxes and all costs associated with its upkeep.
 Emboldened by the success of the operation, she partnered with her New Jersey-based accountant, a friend of 20 years, and bought two more properties: a small one-bedroom in eastern Paris, between Bastille and Nation, and a studio in the Marais, on the Rue aux Ours. 
 Each apartment cost about 170,000 euros, or about $230,000, and has been furnished in a low-key way. As they, too, are being rented out by short-term visitors, Ms. Pike has avoided setting out much memorabilia. She did not want the apartments to feel ''too lived in'' and turn off American tenants. 
 But there are some personal touches: a coffee-table book about fashion sits on the low table at the center of the Rue Nobel studio, and she has prepared a little booklet about the neighborhood for visitors. 
 The apartments are rented through Craigslist, the popular Web site, or through referrals. They are also advertised on The Paris Blog, a site that Ms. Pike founded in 2006. The group blog features contents from several English-speaking bloggers, most of them expatriates who write about the daily intricacies of life in Paris. ''It's a great way to take the pulse of the city,'' she said. 
 The appeal of buying a pied-a-terre in Paris -- ''I love flying in here with just a few changes of clothes,'' she said -- is not out of reach if approached the right way, Ms. Pike explained. 
 ''If they are doing it for the first time and don't speak really, really good French, they should hire a consultant,'' she said. In France, as in much of Europe, real estate agents generally represent sellers, but buyers are usually on their own. 
 A consultant can help with any red-tape issues that come up, she said, adding, ''When things go wrong, you have somebody on your side.'' 
 Mortgage consultants, too, are helpful. Although Ms. Pike arranged the mortgage for her second apartment on her own, she turned to a mortgage adviser for the Marais apartment. 
 She emphasized the importance of actually being in Paris when conducting the transaction. ''If they want to buy from the U.S.,'' she said, ''they are out of their minds.'' 
 Ms. Pike's boyfriend, whom she described as ''a real California boy,'' has yet to visit Paris, but the pair are planning to make a trip in November. ''He thinks it's great; he thinks it's very exotic,'' Ms. Pike said. ''He's a real foodie. He'll have the time of his life here.'' 
 Ms. Pike, meanwhile, has carved out time for a second life in Paris. ''It's such a double life here. I speak a different language. I smoke, which I never do at home, I eat different foods. Here my friends are philosophy professors, writers,'' she said. ''You kind of have a different identity.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); HOME PRICES (71%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); MORTGAGE RATES (63%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2007

 
