

401 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: Whoosh! A Show of Dominance at Lunch 

BYLINE:  By ALEX KUCZYNSKI

 BODY:
RICHARD CONNIFF, a natural history writer who has tracked leopards through the Okavango Delta in Botswana, documented penis displays of vervet monkeys and followed the migration of Irish elk, trekked to Manhattan last week to share his expertise about the behavior patterns of a species indigenous to large American cities. Rather than hunker down in Central Park to observe pigeon pecking orders, Mr. Conniff planted himself at a discrete corner table in the Four Seasons on Park Avenue. 
 His latest quarry is homo sapiens deluxe. A journalist by trade, Mr. Conniff has been schmoozing with Palm Beach socialites and touring $10 million beach cottages for five years for his latest book, "The Natural History of the Rich: A Field Guide" (W. W. Norton, 2002). Rich people are more like animals than are other humans, he argues in a book that marries Mutual of Omaha's "Wild Kingdom" with Vanity Fair's Hollywood Power issue. 
 "I'm used to writing about African prairie dogs and jellyfish and spiders," said Mr. Conniff, a big bearded man who looked vaguely uncomfortable in his Ralph Lauren blazer and Brooks Brothers shirt. "But this is just as interesting. And the food is certainly better." In his camouflage, Mr. Conniff could pass, if you squinted your eyes a little bit, for a Four Seasons regular. 
The only sub rosa clue to his profession was his tie, a print of green anole lizards. (It looked like Hermes, but it was Nature Conservancy.)
Without using spoor samples or radio collars, Mr. Conniff set his sights on the financier Ronald O. Perelman and went to work. At 1 p.m., Mr. Perelman stood up after an early lunch in a power booth along the east side of the Grill Room. A frisson went through the room as diners feverishly tried to watch Mr. Perelman without moving their heads or shifting their gaze. The Revlon mogul opened his jacket and put his hands on his hips, making his silhouette loom suddenly larger and more forbidding.
"He is sending a signal of dominance, so that the others will know he's the alpha," Mr. Conniff said, gesturing with a forkful of crab cake. "Wow, he looks really good." More strikingly, Mr. Conniff said, Mr. Perelman's posture and behavior were similar to that of the male Bonasa umbellus, the ruffed grouse, a forest bird found in the colder regions of the Northern Hemisphere known for its chest-puffing and wing-thumping displays. (And also its significant output of progeny. Mr. Perelman also fits that profile: he has five children.) 
Chest fanned up and out, Mr. Perelman walked a few short steps to greet Barry Diller, the head of Vivendi Universal Entertainment.
As the two men spoke, Mr. Perelman touched Mr. Diller's shoulder, patting him gently. 
"See how he is also doing all of these appeasement gestures, which signal 'Don't be scared of me.' " Mr. Conniff said. 
Mr. Conniff pointed out that the stock of Revlon Inc. lost more than half its value this year after a string of quarterly losses. 
"He hasn't had the best year," he said. "Alpha males, even when they're down, tend to linger around the periphery, hoping to renew alliances and regain friends."
Mr. Perelman's spokesman, James Conroy, said, "I think we will pass up the opportunity to compare ourselves to animals." 
Marleen Zuk, a biologist at the University of California at Riverside and author of "Sexual Selections: What We Can and Can't Learn About Sex From Animals" (Berkeley 2002), said that while Mr. Conniff's premise was amusing, it can't be stretched too far. 
"You have to be a bit cautious in doing this," Dr. Zuk said. "You can have a lot of fun comparing animal behavior to human behavior. And you can keep lists of things that we do and what animals do. You can also point out that we use toilets and animals don't. And the point is?"
Mr. Conniff argues that the rich deserve their own natural history because they try to be different and separate, like a cultural subspecies. "We're genetically programmed to be interested in what the rich do," Mr. Conniff maintained, his eyes alighting on the lunch crowd, a group that also included Ralph Lauren; Morton Janklow, the literary agent to presidents; Peter G. Peterson, the chairman of the investment banking firm Blackstone Group; and Jim Kelly, the managing editor of Time magazine. 
"They control our lives, the economy, history, whether we have jobs, what the price of gas will be," he said. 
The fact that they are powerful and often at a remove can make the rich difficult to track, Mr. Conniff said, especially in New York. "In Los Angeles and Aspen, they want to put on a show," he said. "In New York, people are much more discrete." 
Most rich people want only that other rich people know exactly how rich they are. For instance, Mr. Conniff wrote an article this year for Architectural Digest about the redecorated apartment of a newly single investment banker. Although the banker did not want to be named as the owner of the apartment, Mr. Conniff said, he did allow his photograph to appear in the story.
"He only wanted a select few people to know who he was," he said. "Peacocks don't show their feathers for dogs. That would be a waste of energy. They only show off their feathers for other peacocks." Palm Beach, on the other hand, was friendly. 
"I was at a fund-raiser and fashion show in Palm Beach and told the table what I was up to," he said. "Someone said, 'Are you going to compare us to monkeys?' And I said no, I was going to compare them to apes. They all laughed and started yammering away about the whole idea."
Zoomorphism, comparing human beings to animals, comes easy to Mr. Conniff. His last two books were "Every Creeping Thing: True Tales of Faintly Repulsive Wildlife (Holt, 1998) and "Spineless Wonders: Strange Tales From the Invertebrate World" (Holt, 1996). He grew up in New Jersey. 
"My background is totally middle class," he said. At Yale, where he earned a B.A. in English poetry, he discovered the phenomenon of "stealth wealth." 
"There were a lot of major left-wingers who kept their wealth, their wardrobes, at Rosie's, the local dry cleaners," he said. "And vacation would come and they'd get their nice clothes out of storage. The rest of the year they would look like slobs." 
In reporting the book, Mr. Conniff decided he might try to pass. "I thought about trying to become like them, pretend to be one of them, but it wasn't going to work," he said. "The built-in system we have for detecting cheaters would have showed me up pretty quickly. You just can't fake it."
It was on an assignment outside his usual purview of tarantulas and transvestite cuttlefish that Mr. Conniff found himself on assignment in the 1990's for National Geographic to write about the culture of Monaco. And watching the behavior in the Monaco nightclub Jimmy'z, Mr. Conniff realized that the rich engage in ritualized behaviors that are similar to displays of fundamental animal behavior. Mr. Conniff decided to toss his Gore-Tex boots and bush vests for a while, rented a $150,000 Ferrari F355 and began spending time in Aspen, Los Angeles and Palm Beach. 
Among the rich there are a few common traits, as a biologist friend of Mr. Conniff confided to him. The rules with baboons are the same as in a Jane Austen novel, the biologist said. Maintain close ties with your relatives and get in with high-ranking animals. Protect your wealth, as Donald Trump has done in the manner of the hangingfly, a predator that advertises to females his catch of a bigger insect than usual, Mr. Conniff pointed out. Scare away predators by making loud noises, as Ted Turner does with his temper tantrums reminiscent of those of an alpha baboon. Combine your genes with good genes and pamper the offspring. 
Walking on Madison Avenue after lunch, Mr. Conniff spotted an alpha female, evident in her ferocious leather outfit, big jewels and leopard print scarf. "Look at the tiger on her scarf," he said. "The gaping maw stares back at you. All that leather. That's scary."

GRAPHIC: Photos: ALPHA MALE -- Ronald O. Perelman fluttered his jacket at the Four Seasons like the chest-puffing of a ruffed grouse, according to the naturalist author Richard Conniff. (Left, George De Sota/Liaison; right, Joe McDonald/Animals Animals)(pg. 1); TEMPER -- By a nature writer's account, Ted Turner scares away predators by tantrums like a baboon's. (Left, Gerard Lacz/Animals Animals; right, Associated Press); PROTECTING A FLANK -- According to the author Richard Conniff, Donald Trump has been able to protect some of his wealth by acting like the male hangingfly, a predatory insect. (Jack Wilburn/Animals Animals; left, Chris Hondros/Getty Images); OBSERVER -- Richard Conniff, a nature writer, has turned his attention to the world of humans and is studying the characteristic behavior of the rich. (pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); WRITERS (90%); HIKING (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); ANIMALS (77%); BIRDS (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RONALD PERELMAN (89%); DONALD TRUMP (50%); RALPH LAUREN (50%); BARRY DILLER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) BOTSWANA (91%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



402 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Marriott's Baroque Finances Draw Complaints

BYLINE:  By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
LIKE unwanted guests who persist in returning, awkward questions about the true strength of earnings at Marriott International, the giant hotel-management company, keep popping up. 
 Some investors and industry analysts are increasingly concerned about the financial health of an off-balance-sheet entity called CBM Joint Venture L.L.C. Marriott is a co-owner of CBM, which in turn owns and operates 120 hotels under the Courtyard by Marriott name, in a joint venture with Host Marriott. Host, a separate hotel property company, is also publicly traded and, like Marriott itself, run by a Marriott family member. 
 James S. Chanos, the president of Kynikos Associates, an investment firm in New York, is one of the skeptics. He says one large unit of the joint venture provided nearly 13 percent of Marriott International's pretax earnings last year but "is by technical definitions insolvent." He also says it has been late in paying some fees to Marriott. 
Investors like Mr. Chanos want to know why an entity that contributes such a significant part of Marriott's earnings and has financial problems of its own is kept off the balance sheet; they cannot get a full picture of its health.
Mr. Chanos is a well-known short-seller; he benefits financially when prices fall on his investment bets and could profit on any negative news about the company, a household name in hotels. But short-sellers like Mr. Chanos aren't the only ones looking askance at CBM. "I am concerned that we don't know what's really going on behind the financial statements of the joint venture," said Jason N. Ader, a hotel industry analyst at Bear, Stearns. 
Marriott shares have fallen nearly 29 percent so far this year, in part because of pressure from short-sellers in recent weeks. The stock closed on Friday at $28.88.
Marriott, based in Bethesda, Md., disputed Mr. Chanos's assertions.
"The joint venture as a whole is generating enough cash flow to service its debt and its operating expenses," said Michael J. Green, a vice president for finance and principal accounting officer at Marriott. "So it's solvent."
Mr. Chanos said he drew his conclusions after analyzing regulatory filings by Marriott and by a unit of the joint venture called Courtyard by Marriott II L.P. That is the unit he says is technically insolvent. 
Questions about the financial strength of the joint venture are just the latest burr in the saddle for Marriott, which has faced growing criticism from industry analysts and from owners of the hotels it manages, over what even Marriott calls its hard-to-decipher business.
Marriott, whose chairman and chief executive is J. W. Marriott Jr., manages 2,500 hotels for nearly 500 independent property owners. The brands it operates or franchises include Marriott Hotels, Resorts and Suites; Ritz-Carlton; Renaissance Hotels; Residence Inns; and Courtyard by Marriott, its lowest-price chain. In exchange for management and other fees, as well as a share of profits, Marriott handles all areas of a hotel's operations, from reservations and minibars to towels and conference-room video projectors. The company also owns assisted-living facilities and sells time shares.
At least four lawsuits by owners against Marriott contend that the company charges excessive management fees, declines to provide detailed invoices and fails to share with owners the rebates from volume-discount purchases of everything from soda to telephone service. The owners also say Marriott engages in unfair transactions with Avendra, a major hotel-industry supplier that Marriott partly owns. (A fifth suit was thrown out last week.)
Marriott dismissed the allegations of impropriety but has promised in recent weeks to be more transparent with the owners.
Marriott and Host Marriott each have a 50 percent stake in CBM. Host, the largest owner of Marriott-managed hotels, was part of the original Marriott but was split off into a separate company in 1993. 
The joint venture's hotels, in 29 states, are part of a chain of 450 limited-service hotels all known by the Courtyard by Marriott name. The chain caters to budget business travelers, mainly in suburban areas. Marriott has an agreement with the joint venture to manage its group of 120 hotels; it has similar arrangements with other owners to manage the remaining Courtyard hotels. 
Marriott contends that there is no need to disclose the financial details of its investment in the joint venture because it does not have control and technically does not own the hotels. "The joint venture owns the hotels," Mr. Green said.
But that argument has not stopped some questioners from focusing on the financial health of Courtyard by Marriott II L.P., the unit of the joint venture that holds 70 Courtyard-brand hotels and that Mr. Chanos called "insolvent." (Another venture unit, called Courtyard by Marriott I L.P., owns and operates 50 Courtyard-brand hotels.)
THE joint venture had total sales of $316 million for 2001, according to Marriott's most recent 10-K filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Last year, Marriott recorded operating profit on the joint venture of $25 million. When that is combined with $18 million in land-rent income from the venture and interest income of $26 million on a $200 million loan Marriott made to the venture, total pretax income for Marriott from the venture was about $69 million last year.
But according to Standard & Poor's, the credit rating agency, Courtyard by Marriott II L.P. is in trouble. It owes Marriott $56.5 million in delinquent fees. The agency downgraded the unit's senior secured note credit rating on Thursday from B to B-, or junk status.
Furthermore, Marriott's questioners are troubled by what has been disclosed about the joint venture unit in regulatory filings that suggest it is technically insolvent. It had liabilities of $510.2 million as of June 14, 2002, compared with assets of only $494.5 million, according to a 10-Q filing dated June 14, 2002, the most recent one for the unit.
Marriott reported $370 million in pretax income for all its operations in 2001. Excluding restructuring and other one-time charges, the figure was $542 million. According to Mr. Chanos, that means the joint venture accounted for nearly 13 percent of Marriott's pretax income last year. Marriott reported net income of $236 million last year on revenue of nearly $10.2 billion.
Mr. Green at Marriott said the skeptics are vastly exaggerating the financial importance of the joint venture. He said it accounted for less than 6 percent of Marriott's total pretax income when Marriott's interest expenses in the venture were deducted.
Little is publicly known about financial results for Courtyard by Marriott I. Unlike its sibling, Courtyard II, the unit has no publicly traded debt or equity and is not required to make regulatory filings to the S.E.C. But some short-sellers have said they suspect it has some of the same difficulties.
Neither Marriott nor Host, which is run by J. W. Marriott's brother, Richard E. Marriott, displays consolidated results for the Courtyard joint venture on its balance sheet. While Mr. Chanos said he thought that was legal, he termed the off-balance-sheet approach "aggressive accounting."
Marriott once owned many of the hotels it now manages. In the early 1980's, it began to remake itself into a manager and franchiser, selling off hotels to private investors through numerous limited partnerships. In 1986 it sold stakes in Courtyard hotels through a partnership it created, Courtyard by Marriott I. It set up Courtyard by Marriott II a year later and sold more hotels.
Many of those hotels have always struggled. Many partnership investors were sideswiped by an overbuilt hotel market in the 1980's and a recession later that decade. Even during the economic boom, they labored to make a profit. Some of the investors blamed Marriott for what they called overly optimistic profit projections. Many partnerships, including Courtyard by Marriott II in 1999, sued Marriott. 
As part of a legal settlement of those suits, Marriott and Host bought out the aggrieved investors and created the joint venture to run the properties they regained.
But if the latest questions about the joint venture are any indication, the troubled legacy of those partnerships has come back to haunt the company.
"Historically, there have been a number of Marriott limited partnerships that have been insolvent," said Raymond R. Ciccone, a forensic accountant for the hotel industry. "Marriott's investments in these limited partnerships may have to be written down."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Marriott International faces financial questions from investors and analysts about a joint venture that owns many Courtyard by Marriott hotels. J. W. Marriott Jr., chairman of Marriott International, attended a charity dinner last year, organized by Anne Ford. (Bill Cunningham/The New York Times); (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) Chart: "Riding the Elevator Down"Questions about the true strength of Marriott International's earnings have put pressure on its shares. Graph shows share prices of Marriott International since January.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOINT VENTURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LODGING (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RESORTS (73%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (98%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (MAR) 

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (98%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (98%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%) SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS; 

PERSON: J WILLARD MARRIOTT JR (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



403 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Word for Word/The Cuban Missile Crisis; 
When the World Stood on Edge And Nobody Died Beautifully

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER

 BODY:
FORTY years ago this week, the United States and the Soviet Union went eyeball to eyeball. Moscow had smuggled nuclear missiles into Cuba. Washington wanted them out. One wrong move and World War III would be at hand.
 Newly declassified documents provide a worm's-eye view of those 13 days of crisis. Secret weapons bases, fragile alliances, failed coups, gunpoint weapons inspections, spy flights, the diplomatic dance as the war drums pound -- all are eerily of the moment as Washington goes eyeball to eyeball with Baghdad. 
 The documents were obtained by the National Security Archive (www.gwu.edu/nsarchiv/), a nonprofit research institute on international affairs, and the Cold War International History Project at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, both in Washington, D.C. Excerpts follow. TIM WEINER
Herbert Stanley Marchant, the British ambassador in Havana, writing after the dust had settled, described the scene with aplomb in a cable to his home office: 
Any record of the story of these first two weeks of the Cuban crisis must necessarily read more like a wildly improbable sequel to "Our Man in Havana" than a Foreign Office dispatch. Indeed I doubt whether a month ago any reputable publisher would have given a moment's consideration to a story in which Soviet Russia was to be credited with shipping some four dozen assorted giant missiles, each one longer than a cricket pitch, across the Atlantic to Cuba, where Russian military technicians disguised as agricultural advisers would set them up in secret. . . .
Whilst we in Cuba were as unprepared for the breaking of the storm as was the rest of the world it would not be true to say it came out of a clear blue sky. For two years we have lived in an atmosphere of the wildest rumors, 90 percent of them totally without foundation and many of them specifically about gigantic nuclear missiles. Intelligence agencies must therefore be excused if they tended to discount the hundreds of recent rocket stories from their usual unreliable sources.
The Central Intelligence Agency had long tried to confirm the existence of secret weapons in Cuba. In a post-crisis chronology, it reported:
The Intelligence Community had been flooded with reports of Soviet weapons shipments and missile installations in Cuba. . . . C.I.A.'s files contain 211 intelligence reports on missile and missile-associated activity before 1 January 1962. All of these were either totally false or misinterpretations. . . . C.I.A. analysts had naturally come to view all such reports with a high degree of suspicion. . . . That tended to throw a sort of smoke screen around the Soviet offensive deployment when it finally began.
Meanwhile, after the disastrous Bay of Pigs invasion in 1961, American spies and soldiers had kept planning to overthrow Fidel Castro. A February 1962 memorandum, circulated at the Pentagon and the C.I.A., described one such scheme that had been approved by the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
The first phase of a U.S. endeavor to cause the overthrow of the Castro government should include the creation of a condition of unrest by covert means rather than the active use of major military forces. . . . Then lure or provoke Castro, or an uncontrollable subordinate, into an overt hostile reaction against the United States; a reaction which would in turn create the justification for the U.S. to not only retaliate but destroy Castro with speed, force and determination.
On Oct. 16, 1962, President Kennedy saw photos from a U-2 spy plane showing Soviets setting up nuclear missiles that could hit New York and Washington. For the next 13 days, he weighed whether to bomb, invade or blockade Cuba. The Joint Chiefs recommended air strikes, invasion and occupation. Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara advised the president: "We need to have two things ready: A government for Cuba, because we're going to need one . . . and plans for how to respond to the Soviet Union. . . . It will be an eye for an eye." President Kennedy chose to blockade, not invade. And on Oct. 28, the Soviet Union backed down, agreeing to dismantle the missiles in exchange for a secret assurance that the United States would withdraw its own missiles from Turkey. The question of verifying the Soviet withdrawal remained. The Cubans felt betrayed. Their anger surfaced at a late-night meeting in Havana on Nov. 5 with Anastas I. Mikoyan, the Soviet official handling military and economic aid to Cuba. His memo of the conversation:
Cuban President Oswaldo Dorticos: Cuba opposes any surveillance of its territory, airspace and ports aimed at inspection of the dismantling and removal of "offensive" weapons. . . . We want simultaneous inspection on the territory of the U.S.A., Guatemala and other countries of the Caribbean. . . .
Cuban Vice Premier Carlos Rafael Rodriguez: This inspection would refer to areas where camps for the training of counter-revolutionary mercenaries for aggression against Cuba are set up. The inspection could be extended to Florida, not touching, naturally, Cape Canaveral. . . .
Mikoyan: When we complete the evacuation of the missiles, many issues will be seen in a different light. . . . We will be able to adamantly oppose overflights, the quarantine, verification by the Red Cross, violations of airspace. . . . We mustn't underestimate the value of diplomatic means of struggle. . . . 
Ernesto (Che) Guevara: An extremely complicated situation has been created in Latin America. Many Communists . . . are dismayed by the actions of the Soviet Union. A number of divisions have broken up. New groups are springing up, factions are springing up. The thing is, we are deeply convinced of the possibility of seizing power in a number of Latin American countries. . . . But the Soviets' withdrawal means that we can now expect the decline of the revolutionary movement in Latin America. . . . It may cause difficulties for maintaining the unity of the socialist countries. It seems to me there are already cracks in the unity of the socialist camp.
Mikoyan: That issue worries us too. We are doing a lot to strengthen our unity and, with you, comrades, we will always be with you despite all the difficulties.
Guevara: To the last day?
Mikoyan: Yes, let our enemies die. We must live. . . . We have at our disposal global rockets. Using them would lead to nuclear war. What do you say to this? Shall we die heroically? That is romance. . . . There will come a time when we will show our enemies. But we do not want to die beautifully.
In the end, no one wanted to die beautifully. On Nov. 10, as the missiles were being dismantled, Ambassador Marchant, London's man in Havana, calmly reflected on the passing storm:
My own early disbelief, shared by most of my colleagues, was based on the contention, which I still hold to be true, that Castro's first principle in all his thinking and doing has been to survive and "defend the Revolution." It was consequently our opinion, and we thought it was also Castro's opinion, that the installation of offensive missiles in Cuba was the one thing that would justify United States invasion. . . . 
We therefore believed that neither Castro nor Khrushchev would consider such a move. . . . Although we still do not know exactly where our reasoning went astray it seems probable that the fault lay in not realizing how high the stakes were that Khrushchev was prepared to play for. . . . 
Life here, in spite of the acute underlying tension, has been relatively undramatic. . . . The Cuban public has shown itself remarkably unenthusiastic about dying for the cause.
The same calm has, I am glad to say, prevailed among the British colony. . . . An early interest in the possibility of evacuation has subsided as it became evident that if it was a nuclear war we were heading for, Cuba was perhaps a better place to be than in Britain.
 Among Cuba's people the relief generally felt, if not publicly expressed, at moving a step or two back from the brink of nuclear war was in itself sufficient to take the sharp edge off any immediate urge to complain, much less to resist or revolt. . . . 
The Cuban people, like other peoples all over the world, were no doubt happy at this particular moment in history to settle for any available situation which would avoid a nuclear war.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Kennedy's order to prevent missile deliveries to Cuba. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); ARMS TRADE (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); COUPS (76%); CHRONOLOGIES (76%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); INSPECTIONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); CRICKET (64%); APPROVALS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS (56%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



404 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: The World: At the Brink, Then and Now; 
The Missiles of 1962 Haunt the Iraq Debate

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
FOR 13 days starting Oct. 16, 1962, "the world stood like a playing card on edge," as Norman Mailer put it, while President Kennedy and his closest aides faced down the threat of Soviet missiles in Cuba. Forty years later, Washington and the world are again on the brink, and debates about the lessons of that long-ago October are as fresh as the morning headlines.
 Then, as now, the threat was nuclear weapons and the risk was a wider war. Then, as now, the midterm elections were approaching and a president put in office by a razor-thin margin battled doubts about his reputation in the world. Then, as now, some of the president's aides urged a pre-emptive strike and invasion, while others counseled diplomatic isolation backed by the threat of force. 
 But much has also changed since the crisis that historians have called the most dangerous moment in recorded time. Then, it was uniformed commanders and some Congressional leaders who pushed hardest for military action, while a president all too familiar with World War II combat was skeptical. Now it is uniformed commanders scarred by Vietnam and politicians shaped by its legacy who most urge caution, while civilian Pentagon officials and a president who saw no combat as a home-front National Guard pilot seem more disposed toward force. 
Even as a grizzled group of President Kennedy's New Frontiersmen met this weekend with Fidel Castro at a commemorative conference in Havana to review hundreds of newly released documents, current hawks and doves here summoned snippets from the already voluminous historical record to buttress their cases.
Campaigning for his first term 40 years ago this month, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts was warned by his brother's aides not to so much as mention Cuba, lest the Soviets read too much into his words. Last week, as the Senate's reigning liberal lion, he took to the floor to recall that "many military officers urged President Kennedy to approve a preventive attack" to destroy the Soviet missiles before they became operational. But, he said, their brother Robert argued that would amount to "a Pearl Harbor in reverse," and he added: "That view prevailed. A middle ground was found and peace was preserved."
Hours later, Mr. Bush made a televised speech to the nation on the dangers posed by Iraq's efforts to acquire nuclear weapons, and cited President Kennedy's words to warn: "We no longer live in a world where only the actual firing of weapons represents a sufficient challenge to a nation's security to constitute maximum peril." Mr. Bush's aides say Mr. Kennedy wouldn't have succeeded if he hadn't been genuinely ready to start shooting, and by week's end Congress went along with the president, voting overwhelmingly to authorize him to use force.
"It's like fighting over biblical passages, and what the devil said," said Fred I. Greenstein, an expert on presidential leadership at Princeton. "On the one hand, there is the Kennedy who arrived at the judgment that we can't let those missiles stay in place. But Kennedy also did triple cartwheels to perform in as cautious and unprovocative a way as possible with the Soviet Union. He was not dealing with Saddam Hussein and a bizarre banana non-republic, but with Soviets who had proved throughout the cold war to be rational actors."
Some of Mr. Bush's advisers have pointed to the Kennedy decision to impose a naval blockade on Cuba -- and to threaten drastic action if the missiles were not removed -- as an example of pre-emptive military action. But Kennedy loyalists say the point was precisely the opposite. "The whole purpose of it was to avoid an American attack," a participant in the discussions recalled last week. "And the reason it was called a quarantine and not a blockade is because a blockade is an act of war. We were trying to find a way of communicating more forceful than the English language. It was communicating, not pre-emption."
In 1962, President Kennedy was taken with Barbara Tuchman's new book, "The Guns of August," a history of the unintended chain of consequences that led to the devastation of World War I. He was obsessed with avoiding similar miscalculations.
This fall, White House aides have been reading another provocative work -- by Ms. Tuchman's daughter, Jessica Tuchman Mathews, the president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. The institution produced a report advocating a new regime of "coercive" weapons inspections in Iraq, backed up by force and aimed at disarming Mr. Hussein without resorting to war. Most military commanders faulted the idea as impractical, but Mr. Bush incorporated an echo of it in his proposal for a United Nations resolution that would force Iraq to submit to much more stringent inspections or face the consequences.
"There are never two choices in foreign policy," Ms. Mathews said the other day, "and the right answer is not to choose an unacceptable one, but to look for a third. I think it's fair to say, in the missile crisis doing nothing was unacceptable, and so was going to war with the risk of nuclear holocaust." She added: "The other key lesson was, give your opponent some room to maneuver. Don't back him against the wall."
One problem with this argument: a version of it has already been tried for the decade since the Persian Gulf war. Kenneth M. Pollack, who as a C.I.A. analyst and national security official in the 1990's helped formulate the strategy of containing Iraq through economic sanctions and limited military actions, has reluctantly concluded in a new book, "The Threatening Storm" (Random House), that an invasion of Iraq is now the best approach.
"The fact that a war against Iraq could be potentially quite costly should make us think long and hard about whether or not we should embark upon such an endeavor, but it should never be an absolute impediment," he writes. "Often, the costliest wars are the ones that are the most important to fight."
Perhaps the biggest challenge of any conflict is the unknowns. A C.I.A. analysis released last week supported President Bush's portrait of Iraq's efforts to acquire nuclear weapons, but did not echo the White House's depiction of an immediate threat. In fact, it said, Mr. Hussein might be most inclined to unleash devastating weapons against the United States if he was convinced an American strike was inevitable.
In the missile crisis, the debate over invasion proceeded in ignorance of a threat that only came out 30 years later: the Soviets already had not only missiles but tactical nuclear warheads on the island before the quarantine began, and were ready to use them in the event of an attack.
"I now conclude that however astutely the crisis may have been managed," former Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara said in Havana last week, "luck also played a significant role in the avoidance of nuclear war by a hair's breadth."
Graham T. Allison, the Harvard professor who wrote "Essence of Decision," a seminal study of the crisis recently revised with Philip D. Zelikow (Addison Wesley, 1999) noted another element: President Kennedy's willingness to take a secret gamble on Sat. Oct. 27, the last full day of the crisis. The president's advisers worried that the blockade was failing; a U-2 surveillance pilot had been shot down over Cuba; the missiles were becoming operational.
"Everybody's been on overdrive for two weeks and is fraying, and there's a sense of 'Well, I guess we played out this hand and it didn't work,' " Professor Allison said. Then the president circled back to another possibility: A parallel American withdrawal of obsolete Jupiter missiles from Turkey. He sent Robert F. Kennedy to convey all this to the Soviet ambassador.
"Thus you had this rather bizarre package," Professor Allison added. "A public ultimatum to the Soviets, 'missiles out by next week,' and a pledge not to invade, then a private ultimatum that said, 'We really mean this,' and then, finally, a secret carrot, that if the missiles are withdrawn, then within six months, the missiles in Turkey will not be there, though Bobby insisted there could be no quid pro quo."
These details, too, were not confirmed conclusively until 20 years later. Is it just possible that the Bush administration could be working on some similar secret diplomacy now, say, exile for Saddam Hussein?
"I certainly hope so," said President Kennedy's special counsel, Theodore C. Sorenson.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Aerial photos, like this one displayed after the crisis was over, showed Soviet missiles in Cuba. Robert S. McNamara is at left. (United Press International) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HISTORY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); APPROVALS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (92%); TED KENNEDY (79%); FIDEL CASTRO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); CUBA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



405 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Wars Of Nerves 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Living in Montgomery County, Md., these days with a sniper on the loose is an unnerving experience. We've all gotten to know our police chief, Charles Moose, through his news conferences during the past two weeks of random shootings. We've also gotten to know our pizza deliveryman better. Last Monday night my wife ordered pizza from the California Pizza Kitchen. When the deliveryman arrived, I was in the living room watching President Bush address the nation about Iraq. As my wife paid the pizza guy, she remarked to him that the pizza smelled great, "but I don't think my husband will get up because he's watching the news conference."
 "Oh," the deliveryman said, "has there been another shooting?" 
 No, no, no, my wife explained, my husband is watching the president speak about Iraq.
But who can blame the deliveryman for assuming that I must be watching a news conference about the shooter. If you had to drive around here at night, standing on people's doorsteps with your back to the street, all you'd be worried about would be the shooter, too. But he's hardly alone. There is something about these shootings that is touching deeper nerves in us all.
The fact that the president speaks only about Iraq, while his neighbors down the street speak only about the shooter, reinforces the sense that this administration is so obsessed with Saddam it has lost touch with the real anxieties of many Americans. Mr. Bush wants to rally the nation to impose gun control on Baghdad, but he won't lift a finger to impose gun control on Bethesda, six miles from the White House.
Personally, I'm glad Mr. Bush is focused on disarming Iraq's madman and tracing Iraq's Scud missiles and weapons of mass destruction. It's a worthy project. I just wish he were equally focused on disarming America's madmen, and supporting laws that would make it easier to trace their .223-caliber bullets and their weapons of individual destruction. A lot of us would like to see more weapons inspectors on the streets here, and in the gun shops here, not just in Baghdad.
What's also frightening about this shooter, with his high-powered rifle, is that he could be the first real domestic copycat of 9/11, in terms of technique. That is, this shooter doesn't seem to be a serial killer with a political agenda or the perverse lust to look into the eyes of his victims before he snuffs out their lives.
No, like Osama bin Laden, this shooter seems to get his thrills from seeing the fear in the eyes of the survivors -- after he randomly kills his victims as if they were deer. And like bin Laden, this shooter is a loser who combines evil, cunning, technical prowess, a world stage and a willingness to kill everyday people doing everyday things to magnify that fear. By gunning down people pumping gas, mowing lawns and walking to school, the shooter is making America's capital area squirm. That's power. No wonder the note he apparently left said, "I am God."
And no wonder the Bethesda Gazette, which normally covers school board meetings, carried a big headline that I never thought I'd see in my local paper. It said, "In the Grip of Terror," and the article included little bios of all the people killed. It could have been The New York Times on 9/12: "A County Challenged."
Finally, whether or not this shooter is a twisted copycat, he is part of a larger post-9/11 trend. That trend is the steady erosion of our sense of security, our sense that while the world may be crazy, we can always crawl into our American cocoon, our sense that "over here" we are safe, even if "over there" dragons live.
Well, "over here" is starting to feel like "over there" way too much. Over there, they just shot up U.S. marines guarding Kuwaiti oil fields, but over here, when I filled my car with gas the other day, I ducked behind a pillar so no drive-by sniper could see me; others hide in their back seats. Over there, Saddam terrorizes his people, but over here, my kids are now experts in the fine distinctions between Code Blue and Code Red. Code Blue means they're locked in their public school building because a potential shooter is in the area, and Code Red means they are locked in their classroom because there may be a gunman in the building.
Frankly, I don't want to hear another word about Iraq right now. I want to hear that my president and my Congress are taking the real steps needed in this country -- starting with sane gun control and sane economic policy -- to stop this slide into over here becoming like over there. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FIREARMS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (86%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLICE FORCES (73%); MURDER (72%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (70%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (67%); DISARMAMENT (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (88%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



406 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Turning Away From U.S., Pakistan's Elite Gravitate Toward Islamic Religious Parties 

BYLINE:  By DAVID ROHDE

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Oct. 12 

 BODY:
Seated on the front lawn of his father's palatial house in a leafy enclave here, Ehsan Ijaz, a 20-year-old junior at Georgia Tech, explained this afternoon why other members of the Pakistani elite have turned against the United States.
 While anti-Americanism has long had deep roots here, Western diplomats and Pakistani analysts all insisted that there was no great cause for concern because Pakistan's wealthy elite and urban middle class would never support the country's Islamic religious parties. 
 That changed on Thursday, when residents of Islamabad, with the richest and most well-educated population in Pakistan, backed the local candidate of a coalition of religious parties bent on expelling American forces from Pakistan, ending corruption and imposing Taliban-style Islamic law.
Mr. Ijaz, an affable computer science major who was dressed in flip-flops, shorts and a Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets T-shirt, said he was not surprised, because in Islamabad, the image of the United States is "terrible." 
Mr. Ijaz himself felt some sympathy for the religious parties. He cited popular frustration with the corruption of the country's two main parties, and the hope the religious parties would reform the derelict education system and curb poverty.
But mainly he finds himself defending the United States these days, in increasingly heated conversations with other members of the country's elite.
The talk of an American attack on Iraq has caused many here to declare the American campaign against terrorism a war against Islam. That follows anger over the United States military campaign in Afghanistan, a perception of one-sided American support for Israel and resentment that while President Bush speaks of democratic values, he backs the military dictatorship of Gen. Pervez Musharraf in Pakistan. Much of the anti-Americanism is also based on notions about the attack on the World Trade Center that Americans would consider ludicrous.
The hardening of attitudes is playing out in politics. On Thursday, the local religious party candidate, Mian Aslam, received 40,000 votes in the Islamabad area, twice the number of his nearest rival, the candidate of one of the country's two mainstream political parties. Mr. Aslam, a wealthy businessman, said, "The people of Pakistan want an Islamic system." 
The religious parties did well not only in the religiously conservative provinces bordering Afghanistan. They also beat leading mainstream candidates in the country's cities for the first time, picking up one seat here in the capital, two in Lahore and two in Karachi. 
Based on the final returns today, the religious parties will control two of the country's four provincial governments and will be the third-largest party in the National Assembly, holding a record 50 seats. Their best previous showing was 9 seats in 1993. That will give the party considerable standing in the assembly, where the party backed by General Musharraf won 77 seats and that of former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto won 62. (A fourth group, the party of former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, took 15 seats.) 
Mr. Ijaz has personally been caught in the tensions between the Muslim world and the United States, because he is missing classes waiting for his visa to be renewed. He criticizes the new security checks for Muslim males from 20 countries that have prevented him getting a visa to continue his studies.
But he fights with his growing number of Pakistani friends who deride America as a bullying, arrogant, anti-Islamic country. Mr. Ijaz has been told by people here that the jets that struck the World Trade Center were flown by remote control or were part of an American or Israeli conspiracy to defame Islam. It is commonly believed here that thousands of civilians died in indiscriminate American bombing in Afghanistan. Estimates by journalists put the figure at 400 to 1,500.
"People here don't understand why they attacked Afghanistan," Mr. Ijaz said, referring to the United States. "They fear that if they attack Afghanistan today they can attack Pakistan tomorrow."
Conversations with Pakistanis over the last two months matched Mr. Ijaz's description. In Karachi, a wealthy young businessman who had studied in Britain asked why the Western news media had failed to report that the United States dropped nuclear weapons in Afghanistan. 
A young Pakistani man who had lived in New Jersey for several years announced at a party given by American marines that he admired the strength of the Jewish conspiracy that controls the Western news media, the United States Congress and the world economy. 
In an interview before the elections, Rasul Bakhsh Rais, director of an American studies center at Quaid-i-Azam University in Islamabad, said anti-Americanism was simmering among the urban middle class and elite. But at the time, he said the sentiment would not produce increased support for the religious parties.
"I'm surprised," he said in an interview a day after the election. "I did not expect this." 
Anti-Americanism was not the only factor for the support for the religious candidate here, both he and Mr. Ijaz said. Mr. Asam said today that his campaign focused on reducing poverty and lawlessness in Islamabad. A perception that the government fixed the race prompted a low mainstream turnout that also aided the religious parties.
Zarin Qureshi, a retired air force colonel who voted for the religious party candidate in Islamabad, said today that the victory was a message to the United States to halt its "anti-Islamic" policies on Chechnya, Israel and Iraq. 
Western diplomats said the widespread belief in conspiracy theories here stemmed from an education system that teaches rote learning, not critical thinking. 
The Pakistani news organizations also fuel suspicions. In the last two months, English-language Pakistani newspapers have reported that the Federal Bureau of Investigation wanted to open 200 offices in Pakistan and that dozens of American soldiers have been killed in Afghanistan, and highlighted accounts of discrimination against Muslims in the United States. 
The tone of anti-Americanism in the English-language press has become increasingly acerbic, Professor Rais said. President Bush is strongly criticized in opinion pieces, and recent editorial cartoons have festooned his name and image with swastikas and stars of David. 
Pakistani political analysts said anti-Americanism would die down here if Afghanistan is fully rebuilt, the dispute with Iraq is resolved through United Nations inspections and a Palestinian state is created. Until then, Mr. Ijaz said, he expected his friends to continue hating the superpower they read about.
He recently sent two letters to a local newspaper. One complained about the United States' discrimination in granting visas. The other defended the United States response to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
"Whenever I say that I am not getting a visa and Americans are cruel, they publish it," he said. "But when I say something positive about America, they never publish it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Supporters of the party backed by Gen. Pervez Musharraf celebrated their party's election victory yesterday. (Agence France-Presse); Ehsan Ijaz says he fights with Pakistani friends who deride the United States as a bullying nation. (David Rohde/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); POLITICS (88%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TALIBAN (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); EDUCATION REFORM (70%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%); TERRORISM (64%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (54%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGIA TECH UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (78%) UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



407 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2999 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE DISEASE; 
White House Debate on Smallpox Slows Plan for Wide Vaccination

BYLINE:  This article was reported by Lawrence K. Altman, William J. Broad and Denise Grady and was written by Mr. Broad.

 BODY:
Intense debates in the Bush administration over smallpox vaccinations have delayed critical decisions in the nation's program against germ terrorism for months, participants say.
 They say officials, including at times Vice President Dick Cheney, have argued that the nation should move quickly to vaccinate widely even in the absence of a bioterrorist attack. But others, including President Bush, have been more cautious, worrying about the vaccine's risk of causing serious illness or death. 
 The result has been confusion and delay, even as preparations for some immunizations move ahead.
Though state health officials have been asked to prepare to vaccinate health workers who might confront any smallpox cases, they have not been told how many workers they should immunize. Federal health officials said this month that the government should also consider making the vaccine available to everyone who wants it -- an option that would require complex public education campaigns and extensive logistical preparations -- but President Bush has not announced his decision. 
The hesitancy reflects the magnitude of the issue and the difficulty of resolving it, given the uncertainties over whether the United States faces a smallpox attack and how the population would respond to the hazardous vaccine, both physically and emotionally.
Still, emergency plans are advancing. The Pentagon is completing plans to vaccinate up to 500,000 troops. Last month, federal health officials sent the states a detailed blueprint for preparing to vaccinate all Americans. Its particulars include two-pronged needles, paper gowns, cots, medical screeners, security officers and vaccination times per patient of 30 seconds to two minutes.
Moreover, the upholding of mass vaccinations as a viable option, which officials from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and other health agencies did on Oct. 4, was a large expansion from the modest plans endorsed as recently as a few months ago. The about-face has caused government officials, health experts and the public alike to pay new attention to questions about smallpox, the vaccination that prevents it and the likelihood of its use as a weapon.
A disease of high fevers and open sores contracted by inhalation, smallpox was one of humanity's great scourges. Until it was declared eradicated in 1980, it killed up to a third of those who contracted it -- as many as 500 million people died in the 20th century alone.
Today, only the United States and Russia have publicly declared stocks of the virus. But if clandestine supplies exist -- and terrorism experts say they do -- smallpox could be a potent weapon of mass destruction, one that could put all of the United States at risk.
American officials fear that Iraq may have the smallpox virus and might use it. That, officials say, is a crucial factor driving the Bush administration's accelerated planning for smallpox defenses.
Extensive reviews of documents and interviews with germ authorities show only circumstantial evidence that Iraq has the virus -- plausible enough, most experts say, to warrant the defensive efforts under way, but as a senior official with access to intelligence data conceded, not conclusive. "That's the problem," he said.
Caught between worries about vaccination side effects and Iraqi germ attacks, Washington is preparing for wide protections and quietly encouraging allies to do the same.
"Every week that goes by, we're in a better position to deal with this, even a substantial outbreak," a health official who briefs the White House said. "We've got to be ready to respond."

The Scourge
A Deadly Weapon That Floats in the Air
American officials worry about smallpox because they know that the United States and Soviet Union prepared decades ago to use the virus as a weapon.
Though infected volunteers, so-called smallpox martyrs, could spread the disease, each country developed more efficient methods. Moscow made a liquid, Washington a powder, said Jonathan B. Tucker, an arms expert and author of "Scourge," a book on smallpox.
Smallpox virus weaponized this way can float in the air over long distances, potentially infecting thousands of people. 
In 1966, the United States Army considered sowing smallpox on the Ho Chi Minh Trail in Vietnam, former officials say. But that idea was dropped, and by 1969, President Richard M. Nixon had renounced all germ weapons and championed a global treaty to ban them. The treaty was unveiled in 1972 and signed by more than 100 nations, including Iraq. 
As doctors were redoubling a global effort to eradicate smallpox from the wild, an effort that succeeded in 1980, Soviet scientists secretly developed the means to make 100 tons of smallpox a year. In one Soviet field test, American and Russian experts say, the virus escaped and sailed nearly 10 miles over open water to start an outbreak. 
After the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, many Soviet smallpox experts found themselves impoverished, leading Western experts to fear they might be tempted to sell the virus or their knowledge of how to weaponize it, or both. In 1994, the Defense Intelligence Agency cited an unidentified source as saying Russia had shared smallpox technology with Iraq and North Korea in the early 1990's.
But Iraq could have developed its own supply of the virus from a natural outbreak that struck there in 1971 and 1972, infecting at least 800 people.
"It is most unlikely that Iraq would have missed the opportunity," Richard O. Spertzel, a microbiologist who in the 1990's led the United Nations biological weapons inspections of Iraq, told a House committee last December.
In 1994, United Nations inspectors examining Iraqi medical facilities found an industrial-size freeze dryer, 4 feet high, 5 feet wide and 5 feet deep, the type of dryer microbiologists use to put germs into a kind of suspended animation that extends their life span.
The dryer was labeled "smallpox machine" in Arabic, an inspector recalled.
Iraqi officials insisted the dryer was not for smallpox but for the vaccinia virus, the active ingredient in the smallpox vaccine. The answer was judged plausible since the vaccines are often freeze-dried for storage.
But in 1995 the Iraqis admitted to a clandestine program for making germ weapons. A cache of documents Baghdad turned over to the United Nations that year included at least three papers on smallpox, Dr. Spertzel said in an interview.
A final clue, he said, came from Dr. Hazem Ali, a senior virologist involved in Iraq's biowarfare program, who told inspectors he had worked on camelpox, a relative of smallpox that infects camels.
His statement was judged a cover story. Dr. Spertzel said, "I'd say there was a high likelihood they were messing around with smallpox instead of camelpox."
In 1998, the Central Intelligence Agency told the White House that Iraq probably kept clandestine stocks of the smallpox virus for military use.
Biologists say growing the smallpox virus would be easy for Iraq or any group familiar with basic microbiology. It multiplies readily in chicken eggs and can be harvested on a large scale. Any state or group proficient in germ warfare could turn it into a weapon.
"There are no significant hurdles," said Ken Alibek, a former top Soviet germ warfare official now at George Mason University. "Iraq would be able to do it."
No smallpox detectors exist. So if a smallpox attack occurred, the authorities would probably learn of the strike in two weeks or so -- the disease's incubation period -- when sick people started to exhibit symptoms and head for clinics and emergency rooms.
Vaccination against smallpox can be effective after exposure to the virus, but only up to four days afterward, so it would come too late for the first wave of victims. For them, doctors would have little to offer but comfort as the disease ran its course.
At a Senate hearing in July, Richard Butler, who from 1997 to 1999 directed the United Nations hunt in Iraq for weapons of mass destruction, called the possibility of Baghdad's having smallpox a "deeply disturbing" issue that required "urgent attention."

The Defenses
Vaccine Stockpiles And Outbreak Plans
As worries about germ terrorism grew in the late 1990's, Washington began a low-profile program to rebuild national stocks of smallpox vaccine and update vaccination plans. When routine smallpox vaccination ended in the United States in 1972, only 15.4 million doses were left. In 2000, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention contracted with Acambis of Cambridge, Mass., for 40 million more, at a cost of $343 million.
After the Sept. 11 attacks, that effort expanded, with the goal of having enough vaccine for every American, by late this year or early next.
The plan has old and new elements. Clinical studies showed that the 15.4 million Dryvax doses could be diluted five times to yield 77 million doses. To that would be added 209 million new doses by Acambis Baxter, making a total of 286 million -- enough for every American.
Meanwhile, the drug company Aventis Pasteur disclosed that it had, in cold storage, an additional 75 million to 90 million old doses, which officials now view as an emergency backup. Studies are under way to see if they, too, could be diluted.
For security reasons, storage sites and exact vaccine inventories are kept secret.
As the stockpile took shape, Bush administration experts and officials began to clash over who should be vaccinated and when. The most pressing issue was pre-attack immunizations of emergency personnel and doctors who would vaccinate wider groups of people.
Officials said President Bush and Vice President Cheney eventually became deeply involved in the disputes, with Mr. Bush hesitant and Mr. Cheney more willing.
Minimalists argued for vaccinating only 15,000 health workers, citing the vaccine's dangerous side effects and the June recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, a panel reporting to the federal government that made that suggestion.
On the other side, maximalists by July were pushing for 500,000 individuals or more, arguing that a sizable number of protected people would be needed in the event of a serious outbreak. Officials at the time said an announcement of that number was imminent.
Complicating the decision were doubts about "ring vaccination," the tactic used to eradicate the disease, in which health workers would isolate infected patients and vaccinate people around them. But critics of the approach argued that while ring vaccination worked with natural outbreaks, it would be ineffective in an attack involving thousands of people infected simultaneously.
Douglas Holtz-Eakin, chief economist at the White House Council of Economic Advisers, went so far as to argue that a major attack could virtually shut down the economy and cost $177 billion per week. At a public meeting in June, he asked if even truck drivers and airplane pilots should be vaccinated.
This summer, outside the administration, some experts began calling for vaccinations soon for anybody who wants them, arguing that this would help lessen chaos in a bioterror attack.
A senior official who has briefed President Bush said no consensus had been reached, even as the idea of wide vaccination gained adherents. "The president is clearly concerned about the adverse effects of the vaccine," the official said.
Smallpox vaccine is not given by injection; rather, it is scratched into the skin with about 15 jabs of a special needle that carries two thin prongs. Suspended between them is an exact amount of vaccine. Vaccinators must be taught the immunization technique, but doctors say it is not hard to learn.
The license for the old vaccine has expired, leaving it classified as an "investigational" drug. As a result, anyone who receives it must read about its risks and sign a declaration of understanding, paperwork that slows and vastly complicates the vaccination process. Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, has said the government is trying to license the vaccine like any other as soon as possible.
At least a million undiluted doses of Dryvax are expected to be licensed in the next few weeks, officials said. Meanwhile, the licensing of the Acambis Baxter vaccine, which requires detailed safety and effectiveness testing because its manufacturing technique is new, is not expected before the end of next year. The Aventis emergency stockpile is not to be licensed, officials said.
In the event of an outbreak, there is a critical adjunct to vaccination: isolating the sick to contain the contagious disease. States are under pressure from federal officials to revise their patchwork of quarantine laws to make them uniform and address concerns that giving police powers to public health officials could violate basic liberties.
Dr. David Fleming, deputy director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said people in quarantine would receive "the best care if they became ill." 
Though doctors have no recent experience with smallpox, they hope that modern drugs and treatments might save more lives than was the case in past epidemics.

The Side Effects
Risks That Include Rashes and Death
The immunizations for most diseases are made with dead or crippled germs. By contrast, smallpox vaccine is made with a live virus, a smallpox relative called vaccinia, that can multiply aggressively in people with impaired immune systems, cancer or certain common skin conditions.
When vaccination was routine, complications from vaccinia killed about one person in a million and struck one in 10,000 with serious skin infections, brain inflammations and other ills. Since routine vaccination halted, millions of Americans have contracted the AIDS virus, which can suppress the immune system, and some 200,000 others take immunosuppressive drugs because of organ transplants. Also, rates of skin disorders like eczema are much higher now.
People with eczema, or even a history of it, are at risk for a condition called eczema vaccinatum, which can produce high fever, a severe rash, scarring and even death. Patients whose immunity has been lowered by illness or by medicines used to prevent transplant rejection have an increased risk for a potentially fatal reaction known as progressive vaccinia, in which the sore that normally forms at the vaccination site expands abnormally, damaging tissues all over the body.
Pregnant women, babies and patients with cancer and autoimmune diseases like lupus are also at risk for severe reactions.
Even if they are not vaccinated themselves, vulnerable people can be infected by someone who has recently been vaccinated, since the live virus can be shed from the sore at the vaccination site for weeks. So health officials are looking at special bandages to keep shedding to a minimum.
Many experts contend a drug called vaccinia immune globulin or V.I.G., can counter some adverse reactions. Obtained from the blood of vaccinated people, it contains the proteins known as antibodies that the immune system forms to combat germ invaders.
Few people have been vaccinated in recent years, and the nation has only enough V.I.G. to treat up to 700 patients. At a cost of about $100 million, the government recently contracted with a Canadian company, Cangene, to produce thousands of doses of V.I.G. by late this year or early next.
But V.I.G.'s effectiveness has never been tested in a rigorously controlled study. Dr. John F. Modlin, chairman of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, said he was skeptical that it worked. "It seems to me an important issue if we are going to spend tens of millions of dollars" to build up a supply, Dr. Modlin said.
Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said the government was making more of the drug "because you don't have anything else."
So officials are hunting for a safer vaccine. One is a modified vaccinia called M.V.A., which has an unusually low rate of adverse reactions. In late July, the government asked companies to submit proposals for developing the vaccine and producing up to 30 million doses.
That effort will take several years, Dr. Fauci said, adding that M.V.A. "is not in the Iraq picture."
A more futuristic alternative is antivirals, an emerging class of drugs that fight viruses directly. One, known as cidofovir, is undergoing federal study in animals to see if it can help allay the side effects of smallpox vaccination or perhaps even fight the disease itself. That would be a breakthrough, making treatment possible for the first time and possibly saving many lives.
Because cidofovir has to be injected and can damage the kidneys, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases is supporting research to develop a form that can be taken by mouth, making administration easier and possibly safer. The findings are encouraging.

The Global Response
Israel Is the First To Start Vaccinations
Vice President Cheney, at the start of his 12-country tour in March to drum up support for the removal of Saddam Hussein, reportedly warned the British prime minister, Tony Blair, that a military attack on Iraq could be met by germ reprisals. On April 12, British officials announced that they had placed an order for 30 million doses of smallpox vaccine. Other countries are following suit, often at the urging of the United States.
In August, Israel became the first nation known to have started vaccinating emergency workers against smallpox.
"They're doing it," said Edward H. Kaplan, a Yale public health specialist who recently talked to Israeli health officials. "And the total time it took them to figure it out was quite a bit less than here."
Dr. Kaplan nonetheless praised the new American planning for mass vaccinations.
"Finally, we have something that says we're taking this possibility quite seriously," he said of a smallpox attack. "It says, 'If something happens, we can deal with it,' and maybe it lessens the chance that this kind of thing would happen."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Crowds for smallpox vaccinations at the New York City Health Department in 1947. (The New York Times); Richard O. Spertzel says Iraq was probably "messing around with smallpox." (Getty Images); Ken Alibek, a germ warfare expert, says Iraq could turn smallpox into a weapon. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times); A hospital worker receiving a smallpox vaccination last month in Tel Aviv. In August, Israel became the first nation known to have started vaccinating emergency workers. (Associated Press) Chart: "Preparing for Smallpox"On Sept. 23, the government announced guidelines for possible mass vaccinations. MASS VACCINATION PLANSIf even one case is confirmed, the president could declare a health emergency. Vaccination would be voluntary and require written consent. Health workers would screen out people at risk for side effects. People at risk could be involuntarily quarantined for up to 18 days. IN PROGRESSEnough vaccine is being manufactured for every American, with completion due by early next year. The government is considering how many health workers to vaccinate in advance of any outbreak. RISKSIn the 1960's, the vaccine caused 1 death, 12 cases of encephalitis and 39 cases of severe eczema in every million recipients. Infants, pregnant women, and those with skin ailments or weakened immune systems should not be vaccinated unless exposed to smallpox. COURSE OF THE DISEASEVaccine given in the first four days after exposure can protect against smallpox. About one in three infected may die after symptoms appear. Graph tracks the progression of the disease over a five week period, listing symptoms. NO SYMPTOMS -- Virus intro-duced to respiratory system, replicates in lymph system. FIRST SYMPTOMS -- Fever, backache, headache, nausea, malaise. (Sources: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Pox Americana, by Elizabeth Anne Fenn)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALLPOX (93%); VACCINES (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); VIRUSES (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (78%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (75%); BIOLOGICS MFG (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); DICK CHENEY (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



408 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1550 words

HEADLINE: Pipeline Dream Sets Backdrop In Alaska Race 

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY EGAN

DATELINE: JUNEAU, Alaska, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
In a week when every man, woman and child who has lived in Alaska long enough to prove it received a $1,540 check just for hanging around another year, the dreams of yet one more jackpot from the Last Frontier State die hard.
 Gone are the more far-fetched ideas, the plans of floating icebergs south to sell frozen water to gullible Californians or detonating small nuclear bombs to build harbors on the ice-locked Bering Sea. This year, with chances of opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling fading faster than October daylight, the last best hope for a new boom is in a 3,500-mile natural gas pipeline. 
 Virtually everyone in Alaska is for the gas pipeline, which with an estimated $20 billion construction cost could be the largest single energy project in United States history. It would move an enormous source of gas from Prudhoe Bay to Fairbanks, then south through Canada, along the Alaska Highway. It would bring Alaska roughly $1 billion a year in new revenue, making taxes unnecessary in a place that has no statewide taxes but is facing its biggest budget deficit. 
The only significant hitch for the pipeline is that the companies that want to move the gas say they need the federal government to ensure that they will not lose money on the venture, a provision that could amount to a subsidy of up to $40 billion. But Alaska's political leaders say free market economics simply do not apply anymore to big energy projects. 
The pipeline plan, which has passed both houses of Congress in some form but is stalled in conference committee largely over the subsidy provision, is also entangled in the political dreams of Senator Frank H. Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, who wants to leave the Senate after 22 years to become governor. Having failed to persuade fellow senators to open the Arctic refuge to oil drilling, Mr. Murkowski had hoped to deliver the natural gas pipeline as a grand consolation prize. It is also a big part of a strategy for national energy security, he said. 
"We've been working on this for a long time," Senator Murkowski said in an interview. "It would be nice to finally have it." 
But by insisting that the pipeline and the gas that flows through it be subsidized, Senator Murkowski has angered Canada, the White House, Gulf of Mexico gas producers and free market purists. They have lobbied so hard in recent days to kill the subsidy provision of the pipeline that the chance of any energy bill getting out of Congress this year is now considered no better than 50-50.
In the meantime, Mr. Murkowski finds himself in an unusually difficult contest for governor. What was supposed to be a cakewalk for him in this heavily Republican state has turned into a tight race, with the Democrat, Lt. Gov. Fran Ulmer, running even with Mr. Murkowski in some polls and trailing by not much in others. 
Should Mr. Murkowski win, he would be able to appoint his successor in the Senate, courtesy of a law the Republican-controlled State Legislature passed over the veto of Gov. Tony Knowles, a Democrat, who must step down after eight years because of term limits.
But Mr. Murkowski, who still has two years to serve on his Senate term, has no guarantee of sitting here in Juneau in the governor's chair. In part, the debate over whether Alaska residents finally have to start paying for the state's extensive public services is driving the campaign to govern the nation's largest state.
Like other Democrats who succeed here only by pretending not to be Democrats, Ms. Ulmer is pro-oil and pro-gas development. She also carries a pistol in her purse, counts gun enthusiasts as her strongest supporters and traveled from village to village in a whimsically named "Tour de Fran."
She parts company with most politicians in the far north by saying Alaskans probably have to start taxing themselves, statewide, or say goodbye to all the free benefits, including the annual dividend paid for living here. The reality check is driven by declining oil production on the North Slope, which provides most of the money to keep the state afloat. It is declining by 8 percent to 10 percent a year. 
Ms. Ulmer has been gaining ground in part because many Alaskans say Mr. Murkowski, the senior Republican on the Energy Committee, can better serve the state by staying in Washington. She has also been running an aggressive campaign while Mr. Murkowski has been stuck in the Capitol.
Ms. Ulmer favors the subsidized pipeline, and has criticized Mr. Murkowski for being unable to win support for the plan from the Bush administration. But she is campaigning on other issues.
"Quite a few Alaskans are starting to say we do have to pay for services, that everything can't be free," she said. "But it's hard to change that mindset."
Senator Murkowski says taxes are anathema to Alaska. He proposes building railroads and highways, opening the wildlife refuge to oil drilling and getting that natural gas pipeline under construction. 
Democrats and environmentalists have said little about the pipeline. The strongest criticism has come from conservatives and from other energy producers who say it would put them at a disadvantage to subsidize Alaskan gas.
"This is just an amazing gift to a certain segment of the energy industry," said Jerry Taylor, of the libertarian-leaning Cato Institute. "It's not really that important to the United States, otherwise the free market would build it. But it's very important to Senator Murkowski, who wants to show he can bring home one last piece of pork."
In a joint statement with the Sierra Club, the Cato Institute labeled the energy bill "a grotesque bipartisan avalanche of welfare for the well connected."
The Canadian government, which prefers that the pipeline go a shorter route through the Mackenzie Valley, has been equally harsh, saying the subsidized plan would kill incentives for natural gas development in Canada. As it is, Canada is the largest outside energy supplier to the United States, providing 94 percent of the nation's natural gas imports.
"We hope that Congress will ultimately conclude that it is the marketplace, not government subsidies, that will ensure that Americans receive secure, clean-burning gas at the lowest possible price," Michael Kergin, the Canadian ambassador to the United States, said in a recent speech. 
Canadians say they prefer the Mackenzie Valley Route, in part, because it would provide more jobs in the country and would be easier to build.
Some of the world's largest oil companies that sell gas from the Gulf of Mexico have also attacked the plan. In a recent letter, gulf state producers said, "Congress should not pick winners and losers through selective regional subsidies."
Senator Murkowski says that the opponents do not want to compete with all the gas that Alaska could bring to the United States market, and that the other producers are subsidized by a variety of tax credits as well. 
"There's got to be some kind of assistance from government," Mr. Murkowski said. Without federal support, he said, "Alaska natural gas could stay in the ground for a very long time."
The gas pipeline plan dates to the late 1970's, when President Jimmy Carter signed a treaty with Canada giving the go-ahead to a pipeline. The North Slope is full of gas, but there has never been enough economic incentive to bring it to the lower 48 states.
Trying to jump-start the pipeline, Alaska's two senators added provisions in the Energy Bill that provided $10 billion in loan guarantees for the builders of the line and offered tax credits for gas producers should the price fall below $3.25 per thousand cubic feet. The windfall would apply only to Alaska producers. Should gas rise above $4.85, the producers would have to repay the Treasury.
An additional provision requires the pipeline to go south to Fairbanks, and then follow the Alaska highway through Canada. From there, it would go to United States markets through regional pipelines. The shorter route, which Canada prefers, seems doomed, for now.
"Over my dead body," Alaska's other Republican senator, Ted Stevens, said of the route preferred by Canada. "And I'm not quite ready to leave this world."
Mr. Murkowski said, "It's a win-win for everyone," adding that the subsidies were a "safety net" to ensure that gas developers do not lose too much money.
But opponents pointed out that since gas has seldom risen above $4.85, and has often traded below $3.25, the pipeline could cost American taxpayers more than $40 billion, and might never have to be repaid. They also argue that it is a dangerous precedent for government to set price support levels for big energy, as it now does for major farm crops. 
The Bush administration has not said if it would veto the energy bill, should the House and Senate agree on a final product. But the president has said he opposes subsidizing Alaska gas. 
Senator Murkowski, who has been stuck in Washington while his opponent travels from village to village, is eager for Congress to end its session. He would like to return home with a $20 billion pipeline plan in hand, he said. But failing that, he said there are always railroads, new gold mines, other oil opportunities to ensure that Alaskans do not give up their dreams of another boom. 
"You've got a big hunk of real estate out there," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lt. Gov. Fran Ulmer, left, with her running mate, Ernie Hall, has criticized her Republican opponent for governor, Senator Frank H. Murkowski, right, for not winning support for a subsidized natural gas pipeline. (Associated Press): (Al Grillo for The New York Times) Map of Canada and Alaska highlighting the proposed gas pipeline: The route for a proposed gas pipeline is a matter of contention.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (88%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); BUDGETS (74%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); WILDLIFE (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (70%); INTERVIEWS (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (57%); MILITARY WEAPONS (56%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (54%); BUDGET DEFICITS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: LISA MURKOWSKI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JUNEAU, AK, USA (79%); FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (73%) ALASKA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); BERING SEA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



409 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: HUNT FOR WEAPONS; 
Iraq Tour of Suspected Sites Gives Few Clues on Weapons

BYLINE:  By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: AL YUSUFIYAH, Iraq, Oct. 12 

 BODY:
If Iraq is developing nuclear weapons, American officials say, its plans almost certainly involve a sun-beaten, dust-blown, ill-kept industrial plant at Al Furat, a bleak site near this town southwest of Baghdad.
 Five busloads of reporters and photographers were driven to the site today, and given a 90-minute tour by Iraqi generals, who say it is being used for the repair and development of electronic equipment for Iraq's armed forces. 
 In his speech about Iraq on Monday, President Bush said satellite photographs had revealed that Iraq was rebuilding at the sites of its past nuclear programs, including this plant, where Saddam Hussein's government had been secretly preparing to enrich uranium on the eve of the Persian Gulf war in 1991. 
Black-and-white aerial photographs released by the White House to support the speech included two of Al Furat. One was identified as having been taken in 1998, another in September 2002, with arrows pointing to a large building "originally intended to house a centrifuge enrichment cascade operation." An accompanying caption said the building appeared to be in use again. 
All week, and every week for months, top officials of Mr. Hussein's government have been saying that the American allegations have been fabricated to justify another war with Iraq. They have offered visits to areas identified by Washington as suspected weapons sites, and today it was the turn of Al Furat, about 20 miles southwest of Baghdad. 
The generals who gave the tour today contended that Al Furat had turned the page, and that the site was now used exclusively as a "research center serving the Iraqi Army in the repair and development of communications equipment."
The visitors toured laboratories testing outdated Soviet-made radar and radio equipment and tramped across the floors of uncompleted hangar-sized buildings strewn with the twisted wreckage of pipes and girders from previous undertakings. 
But whatever Al Furat may be these days, the Iraqis certainly knew that the tour for at least 200 scrambling, sweating reporters would not settle the matter conclusively, and not just because none of the visitors were experts in nuclear physics. The tour left no time to visit all of the dozen or more buildings on the site, and no opportunity to descend into the underground bunkers that appeared to be accessible from steel-sided entranceways with rusting doorways that were dotted about. 
The results, mostly, were confusion and befuddlement -- whether that was the intention of the tour's organizers in the Ministry of Military Industrialization, or an inevitability given the complexity of the issue and the chaotic circumstances. What was certain, however, was that tours like these for reporters are unlikely to add very much to the world's knowledge of what Iraq's secretive leadership has been up to.
To gather hard information, international weapons inspectors are required, and even they seem likely to face a perplexing task.
Mr. Bush's hand was strengthened on Friday when the Senate joined the House of Representatives in a resolution giving the president sweeping authority to use force in Iraq. 
Iraq's response to the growing pressures from Washington took other forms today, as well. The Iraqis mixed the conciliatory with the confrontational.
In an interview published today in the German weekly Der Spiegel, Vice President Taha Yassin Ramadan said Iraq was ready to allow United Nations weapons inspectors to visit eight presidential palaces that Mr. Bush identified in his speech on Monday as possible hiding places for weapons programs. Mr. Ramadan did not say specifically, though, that Iraq was ready to scrap the time-consuming procedures for palace inspections that were agreed to with the United Nations in 1998, and which the United States has said would give the Iraqis the opportunity to move or conceal evidence. 
But a letter sent to the United Nations this week backed away from recent agreements on minimum conditions for inspectors to complete their work, and a different tone was struck in an interview with Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz, during a visit to Beirut, that was published in Iraqi newspapers today. 
Mr. Aziz was quoted as having said, "America is the one challenging us -- we are not the ones challenging America." 
Iraq also prepared other ripostes for Washington. A gathering of 450 Shiite Muslim clerics in Baghdad issued a religious decree declaring a holy war against the United States and its allies in the event of a military attack. About 55 percent of Iraq's population of 22 million people are Shiite Muslims, though Mr. Hussein and most of the top officials in his government are Sunni Muslims. The Shiites are kept under tight government control here. 
The visit by reporters to Al Furat was marked by the ambiguities and frustrations that customarily attend such events in Iraq. On the one hand, there were the flat-out denials by the officers in charge of the plant that its operations have anything to do with nuclear technology; on the other, the realities glimpsed by the visitors -- inconsistencies, as they seemed to some -- that left many with a sense that the generals may have been less than candid.
Lt. Gen. Abbas Saadi, the plant's director general, acknowledged that there had been a "nuclear program" at the plant before the gulf war. The concession was necessitated by the findings of United Nations weapons inspectors who raided the plant after that war and found evidence that the Iraqis had built a facility for manufacturing and testing gas centrifuges, a principal means of enriching uranium for nuclear weapons.
One of the buildings at the site, evidently the one marked with an arrow on the photographs released by the White House on Monday, was determined by the weapons inspectors to have been the location for a "centrifuge cascade" that would have been used to test the process before a full-scale enrichment plant was put into operation elsewhere.
A problem for any Iraqi official denying the existence of new weapons programs is that all such programs were also insistently denied by Iraq during the early stages of the weapons inspections after 1991, and acknowledged only after United Nations research and Iraqi defectors had led inspectors to the sites.
One indication that the current operations at Al Furat might not be quite as harmless as the Iraq officials claimed came from the extensive defenses around the plant. Sandbagged bunkers lined the approach road after the buses carrying the group turned off the highway leading south from Baghdad. Farther off were clusters of antiaircraft weapons mounted on high earthen berms, all of them manned. 
General Saadi, the plant's director, seemed ill at ease when asked about the defenses, but eventually said that it was normal for any country facing military attack to defend its industrial plants.
Asked about Mr. Bush's assertion that "Iraq is reconstituting its nuclear weapons program," the general, an engineer by training, shot back, "Of course, it's false." But when pressed further, he seemed to waver. "I am sorry," he said. "I have no details about the nuclear program." 
Much of what the reporters saw at the plant had an oddly makeshift appearance, almost as if work on the radar and other electronic appliances under way in the laboratories was new, or at least being conducted in an oddly haphazard way. Secretaries sat staring mutely at the screen savers on their computer desktops, and logged onto programs only when reporters approached. Some testing equipment in otherwise bare laboratories sat on carts parked awkwardly along the walls, as if nobody had given much thought to the matter.
Two large buildings, including a four-story one earmarked in the White House photos, seemed to be under construction, but no work was in progress and little construction machinery was visible. 
All in all, the site seemed lacking in the brisk purposefulness usually associated with a military plant. Some of the officers escorting the group made no effort to hide their anger at the intrusion, and at the reporters' skepticism, and stalked off almost as soon as the questions began.
"Bush is a liar," said an officer who identified himself only as Colonel Adil. "You can see for yourself what is here." After identifying one battered, rusting torpedo-shaped device lying on a trestle in the corridor as a Soviet-made airborne electronic jamming pod, he stormed off, saying that one of his children had died because United Nations economic sanctions deprived the child of adequate hospital care. 
"America is ready to do anything dirty to the Iraqi people, anything!" he said. "What Bush wants is Iraq's oil. That is all he wants!"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqi officers led journalists yesterday on a tour of a site south of Baghdad that the White House says is part of a nuclear weapons program. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. 17) Map of Iraq highlighting Al Yusufiyah: Reporters toured Al Furat, a plant near the town of Al Yusufiyah. (pg. 17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT REPAIR & MAINTENANCE (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (75%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); CENTRIFUGES (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); PHYSICS (63%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



410 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: After Torricelli, Race Now Suits The Democrats 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON, Oct. 12 

 BODY:
In the two weeks since Senator Robert G. Torricelli abruptly ended his bid for re-election, the race for his seat has been transformed into a contest that is less predictable, less expensive and more likely to focus on issues favorable to Democrats, officials with both parties say.
 With Democrats holding a single-seat majority in the United States Senate, party leaders were in a near panic last month, fearful that Mr. Torricelli's floundering candidacy might cost them control. 
 The race, which now pits former Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, a Democrat, against Douglas R. Forrester, a Republican, has become very competitive, and polls show the candidates even or Mr. Lautenberg holding a slim lead. It remains one of several contests with the potential to decide the majority in the Senate. 
Republicans say privately that it has been moved off the top tier of races they have hopes of winning to one that looks slightly more marginal. Democrats say they are confident that the playing field now favors them in a state that has not elected a Republican senator in 30 years. 
In any case, it has changed from a brass knuckles campaign with a sitting senator facing almost certain defeat to a volatile battle of parking lot confrontations and comic television advertisements between a 78-year-old retired senator and a relative political newcomer in which both candidates are making up their campaigns day by day.
 "This has gone from being a race where Democrats were likely to lose to one that plays to their strengths," said Jennifer Duffy, an analyst for The Cook Political Report. "All of a sudden it's about issues -- issues other than Bob Torricelli -- and that helps them."
 Mr. Torricelli's departure is likely to make the contest less costly for Democrats, allowing them to divert resources to close Senate races in other states. New Jersey Democrats said the party in Washington had pledged $9.5 million for the race and issue ads to help Mr. Torricelli, the former chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, defend his seat. Mr. Lautenberg is likely to receive only half that amount from Washington, according to party strategists. After Mr. Torricelli left the race, New Jersey's Democratic leaders, many of whom had declined to help him, set a goal of $3 million for a get-out-the-vote effort.
It is less clear how the drastic shift in the race will affect the financial support Mr. Forrester receives from Washington Republicans. Several months ago the National Republican Senatorial Campaign pledged $934,000 in direct aid for Mr. Forrester, the maximum allowable, and he spent more than $600,000 in September on a single television advertisement attacking Mr. Torricelli's ethics. Republican Party leaders said Friday that they still had not determined how much money for independent expenditures and issue ads they would commit to the New Jersey race, but their support is likely to be crucial. The Republican Party in New Jersey has raised little for the campaign, and Mr. Forrester's wealth, which he has estimated at more than $50 million, is tied up in his pharmacy benefits management company.
Party officials in Washington say that they expect the race to be competitive down to the wire and that they will finance it accordingly. "This is now a more conventional race," said Mitch Bainwol, executive director of the National Republican Senatorial Committee. "Two weeks ago, it was a referendum on the incumbent. With no incumbent we're pleasantly surprised that we're now running against someone with two decades of experience in politics who is still polling in the mid-40's. You couldn't ask for anything better than that, except for Torricelli."
As this new phase of the race has unfolded, the spectacle of one campaign starting from scratch while the other was being redesigned has given the race an improvisational feel. Mr. Forrester had comfortable leads in most polls, only to be suddenly cast into the role of underdog. Trying to seize the initiative, he confronted Mr. Lautenberg at a fair in Old Bridge on Oct. 5, and challenged him to 21 debates, one in each county in the state. Mr. Lautenberg responded by poking a finger toward Mr. Forrester and inciting his supporters to drown him out with raucous cheers.
Mr. Forrester has also sought to taint Mr. Lautenberg with Mr. Torricelli's unfavorable image by making frequent references to a "Torricelli-Lautenberg machine" and issuing daily news releases showing the two men's heads so close together they look like conjoined candidates.
Mr. Lautenberg, for his part, has been forced to cram a year's worth of campaigning into 35 days, a feat that has led to confusion. Between fund-raising, interviews, assembling a staff and attending strategy sessions, Mr. Lautenberg has rarely made time for more than one campaign stop a day. His aides say, many of his speeches and appearances have been hashed out in transit along the New Jersey Turnpike.
"Some strange lady called here the other day and was angry that Frank Lautenberg didn't have a Web site up yet," said Tovah Ravitz, spokeswoman for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. "We had to giggle."
By Thursday, Mr. Torricelli's old Web address featured a photo of Mr. Lautenberg, along with a promise that a complete Lautenberg Web site would be available soon. The Forrester campaign promptly distributed a photo of the site saying it was the latest evidence that Mr. Lautenberg and Mr. Torricelli -- whose dislike for one another was a subject of Washington lore when they served together in the Senate -- were engaged in a secret alliance.
By far the biggest change brought by Mr. Torricelli's departure is that he is no longer the dominant issue. Mr. Lautenberg wasted little time before focusing on the four chief Democratic issues in socially moderate New Jersey: abortion rights, gun control, environmental protection and Social Security.
"Doug Forrester doesn't share the values of the people of New Jersey," Mr. Lautenberg said. Political analysts agree that New Jersey voters are more attuned to Democratic positions on those issues.
"This has become a very difficult place for Republicans to run statewide during the past decade," said Clifford Zukin, a pollster and political science professor at Rutgers University. "The population entering the voting age identifies with Democrats far more than the generation it replaced. So the challenge for Doug Forrester is to tell people something more than that he's not Bob Torricelli."
Democrats are so optimistic about their chances of convincing voters that Mr. Forrester is a conservative extremist that the Lautenberg campaign occasionally has the air of a front-runner. Mr. Forrester, who is still trying to establish his political identity with the public, has asked for as many one-on-one debates as possible; Mr. Lautenberg, who is well known because of the 18 years he served in the Senate, has said he will only debate if minor party candidates are also included.
Mr. Forrester has proven himself to be a crafty counterpuncher, though. For most of this year, Mr. Forrester's performance on the campaign trail reflected the fact that he has not run for office since he was elected to the Town Council of West Windsor, N.J., in 1982. Since late August, however, Mr. Forrester has appeared forceful and aggressive. 
After losing his legal challenge to keep Mr. Lautenberg off the ballot, Mr. Forrester has taken the offensive, saying that the Democratic political machine had made New Jersey "a national joke" by allowing the candidate switch after the deadline stated in the law.
While it is unclear whether that argument will sway voters, polls suggest that the change in candidates has appeared to energize Mr. Forrester's Republican base.
The Forrester campaign has also brought up Mr. Lautenberg's age, suggesting that a rigorous debate schedule might be too taxing for him, and asking in a news release, "Is Frank Lautenberg running from his record or is he getting forgetful?"
Political strategists warn that such arguments can backfire by offending elderly voters, who are a crucial segment of the electorate. Mr. Forrester points out, however, that during Mr. Lautenberg's first Senate race, in 1982, he made a similar argument against his opponent, Millicent Fenwick, who was 72.
"There shouldn't be a limit on age," Mr. Forrester said, "but there should be a limit on hypocrisy."
Mr. Forrester also said Mr. Lautenberg and the Democrats were out of step with New Jersey's voting public. In an unusual maneuver, Mr. Forrester's campaign this week distributed copies of its own internal poll which found that the issues of most concern to voters were national security, the war on terrorism and the economy. Since then, Mr. Forrester has focused each day on criticizing Mr. Lautenberg's record on national defense, particularly his vote against the Persian Gulf war resolution in 1991.
"The Torricelli-Lautenberg machine is trying to follow the standard Democratic playbook and make this about issues that appeal to a relatively small segment of the electorate," said Bill Pascoe, Mr. Forrester's campaign manager. "We want to draw an issue-contrast on the matters that New Jerseyans really care about, to wit: the war on terrorism and the economy." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ETHICS (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (56%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



411 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Issues in Search of a Campaign 

BYLINE:  By Andrew Kohut; Andrew Kohut is director of the Pew Research Center.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Rarely has the mood of American voters been as inscrutable as in the current election cycle. What issues will the midterm election turn on: a new war with Iraq, the war on terrorism, a sagging economy, a stock market boom gone bust, one of the biggest business scandals in American history, or the old domestic agenda lost in the fog of the shattering events of the past 13 months?
 Republicans are hoping that the focus on Iraq and the war on terror will help decide a handful of close Senate races and perhaps two dozen toss-up House races. Democrats want to see the economy, corporate scandals and seldom-discussed domestic issues like health care and Social Security reform at the top of voters' minds. Yet neither party has the advantage at this point. The presumed Republican issues, especially Iraq, have dominated the headlines, but domestic issues may still influence voters more. In the end, this could be an election filled with major issues but not driven by them. 
 The polls find voters acknowledging the importance of a wider than usual range of concerns this year. An ABC/Washington Post survey at the end of September found 74 percent of respondents saying that the war on terrorism would be a very important factor in their choice of a House candidate -- but the very same percentage said that about the economy and also about education. Almost the same numbers of people rated the situation with Iraq (71 percent) and health care (70 percent) as very important factors in their vote. And a solid majority of respondents judged five other issues as potentially key considerations on election day: Social Security, the federal budget, prescription drug benefits for the elderly, taxes and corporate scandals. A Pew Research Center survey conducted in early October found similar results when respondents were presented a similar laundry list of issues.
When voters are asked to come up with their own list of issues without prompting, however, there is a more decisive tilt. Domestic concerns dominate. In particular, the economy dwarfs all other issues when people are asked what they would most like to hear the candidates talk about. In Pew's recent survey, 40 percent cited the economy. In contrast, only 4 percent cited the possible war with Iraq and only 11 percent mentioned terrorism.
This may sound like the Democrats have an advantage -- but it's not necessarily so. Polls this year also show that voters have about as much confidence in Republicans to improve the economy as they do in Democrats. And more respondents think Republicans would better handle the domestic terrorist threat (44 percent compared to 28 percent for Democrats) and make wise decisions about Iraq (46 percent compared to 30 percent for Democrats.)
So while domestic issues that might give Democrats the edge are generating strong voter interest, Democrats have not been able to capitalize on them. Some of this may be due to Washington's focus on Iraq and terrorism and the accompanying news coverage of it. But even that does not explain why Democrats are not much better regarded than Republicans on handling the economy -- or, for that matter, on addressing corporate scandals.
We have not seen the kind of anger and blame that led to a shift in control of Congress in 1994 or the anti-impeachment backlash of the 1998 midterm elections. Americans do not give President Bush good grades for the economy. Since the early summer a majority of those surveyed say he has not paid enough attention to the economy. Yet the public does not blame President Bush or his party for the weak economy or the stock market tumble. Instead, most people see these events as a result of the Sept. 11 attacks or the business cycle. By the same token, while voters may have less confidence in the Democratic Party on national security, it is unlikely they will reject its candidates on that basis.
Despite an atmosphere of war and economic angst, next month's midterm elections may turn out to be like others of the past -- dictated by local issues rather than driven by national trends. Americans are not yet assigning blame for the foreign and domestic challenges the country faces -- and it is that impulse that usually boosts voter turnout and turns political tides. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HISTORY (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); SCANDALS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGETS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); AGING (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



412 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
At an industry gathering, the emphasis is on reasserting the power of brand-name products.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott

DATELINE: NAPLES, Fla. 

 BODY:
THE anxiety among consumer marketers over the sputtering economy was palpable throughout the 2002 annual meeting of the Association of National Advertisers here, as speaker after speaker offered unusually frank admonitions to concentrate scarce corporate resources on reasserting the power of name-brand products.
 "Too much marketing is done by rank amateurs," said Charles B. Strauss, chairman of the Unilever North American division of Unilever, in a speech at the conference, which began on Thursday and ended Sunday, and as a result "so many companies have mismanaged their brands." 
 "In a more demanding world, our brands must become stronger and more valuable," he added. "We must focus our very best talents on our very best brands." 
To that end, Unilever is culling its myriad product lines, Mr. Strauss said, to 400 brands from 1,600, with "my best guess, an eventual focus on 200." Among the survivors in the United States are All, Dove, Q-Tips and Wisk, but among the casualties are two of Unilever's oldest soap brands, Lifebuoy and Lux, both formerly heralded by classic ad campaigns that demonized "B.O.," for the body odor that Lifebuoy fought and lionized Hollywood stars for their Lux complexions.
"We're very pragmatic," Mr. Strauss said, particularly in trying to balance the benefits of scale of selling brands globally with the familiarity with consumers achieved by brands marketed locally.
"The goal is global knowledge being applied to satisfy local consumer needs," he added, and "we say to our agencies, 'We want the clout that comes with global brands and the relevant intimacy the strongest local brands have.' "
Mr. Strauss's speech was among the best-received by attendees of the conference, which was the 92nd annual meeting of the association, the trade organization for major marketers. Reflecting the skittish feelings about the econony, attendance, initially estimated at 400, was actually closer to 250; there were 220 people at the opening dinner on Thursday.
Whatever the number, those marketers who did attend represented some of the nation's largest spenders on advertising and promotion, including AT&T, ConAgra, Johnson & Johnson, Kraft Foods, Procter & Gamble, Wendy's International and the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company. 
Two other speakers with messages of tough love also came from the ranks of those major marketers, in effect putting their ad dollars where their mouths are. They were Douglas R. Conant, president and chief executive of the Campbell Soup Company, and Thomas G. Stemberg, chairman of Staples, the office supply retailer.
"Today's market place is more Darwinian than ever before," said Mr. Conant, who spoke from the experience earned by grappling with continued sluggish sales of Campbell's flagship brand, its condensed soups with the red-and-white labels. "You either differentiate or die; there really is no in-between."
Mr. Conant acknowledged that Campbell had "lost our competitive edge" and outlined a four-step, three-year "transformation" plan undertaken in July 2001. The plan, whose eventual success or failure Wall Street is following closely, includes what Mr. Conant described as "a significant increase in reseach and development financing, because quite frankly we had allowed competitors to narrow the gap in quality" between their brands and Campbell's, as well as a "major increase" in advertising and promotional spending. 
In some instances, Mr. Conant said, the plan is already yielding results, listing among them increased sales of the Campbell's Chunky and Campbell's Select soup brands as a result of campaigns that "sharply delineated to consumers" the attributes of those products like improved ingredients and redesigned packaging. The company has high hopes for new products, he added, like Soup at Hand, sold in heat-and-serve microwaveable cups, and "we are moving forward confidently in the upcoming soup season."
Still, Mr. Conant confessed, "we do have more work to do" on the mainline red-and-white soups, promising that significant changes in that brand "will flow into the market in the next 18 months." Whether impatient investors and hungry competitors will allow the company's ambitious efforts to come to a boil, or yank the pot off the stove before it heats up, remains to be seen.
Mr. Stemberg, in his speech, outlined the aggressive steps being taken to remake the Staples brand as rivals like Office Depot and Office Max -- not to mention Wal-Mart, warehouse chains and even supermarkets and drug stores -- co-opt its original differentiating selling point to customers, lower prices.
Because "everybody's got low prices," Mr. Stemberg said, "we're now going to appeal to the consumer's need for simplicity, convenience and an effortless shopping experience, and take a much more empathetic tone."
That change of voice, though still "leavened with traditional Staples humor," reflects the "kinder, more compassionate" approach consumers insist on, he added, after the scandals stemming from "the petty greed of a few C.E.O.'s that has humiliated all of corporate America" and eroded their trust in what companies tell them.
Mr. Stemberg showed two humorous new Staples commercials meant to convey that "we appreciate, we know, we understand that saving time is as important as saving money," he said, which represents "a greater risk" than simply promising lower prices because "we're asking our customers to have faith we'll not disappoint them on immeasurables that are not easily checked on like low prices."
To assure that "the expectations we raise must be met," Mr. Stemberg said, Staples is backing the brand makeover with a chainwide program called "Back to Brighton" after its first store in Brighton, Mass. The program includes time-saving steps like "four ordering stations" in each store, he added, linked to the Staples Web site (www.staples.com), so that shoppers can order online any merchandise they do not find in stock and have it "delivered free the next day."
The speaker who made the attendees laugh most was Donny Deutsch, representing the point of view of the Madison Avenue agencies that they hire. Mr. Deutsch, chairman and chief executive at Deutsch in New York, part of the Partnership division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, offered marketers 16 rules he would follow "if I were a client."
Here are some of the Deutsch dictates:
*"If you cannot look in a mirror and say you have the best marketing thinking in your competitive set, if someone else is doing it better, fire your agency and hire theirs."
*"Creative awards are immaterial and stupid because great work is work that moves your business."
*"Beware of the schmooze. If your agency is schmoozing you, it's probably not that good. Take that out of the equation. Say, 'Let's spend the time working.' "
*"If you're not having fun with your agency, find another agency."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); BRANDING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FAST FOOD (77%); OILS & FATS (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); CELEBRITIES (66%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (60%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (60%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

COMPANY: UNILEVER PLC/NV (90%); CAMPBELL SOUP CO (80%); WILLIAM WRIGLEY JR CO (63%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (63%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (84%)

TICKER: UNIA (AMS) (90%); UNA (BIT) (90%); UNA (AMS) (90%); UN (NYSE) (90%); ULVR (LSE) (90%); UL (NYSE) (90%); CPB (NYSE) (80%); JNJ (NYSE) (63%); PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (90%); NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (80%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (80%); NAICS311930 FLAVORING SYRUP & CONCENTRATE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (63%); SIC2067 CHEWING GUM (63%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (52%) SIC2079 OTHER EDIBLE FATS & OILS; SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES; 

PERSON: DOUGLAS R CONANT (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



413 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1695 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
The intellectual property debate takes a page from 19th-century America.

BYLINE:  By Steve Lohr

 BODY:
IN the 19th century, the United States was both a rapidly industrializing nation and -- as Charles Dickens, among others, knew all too well -- a bold pirate of intellectual property. 
 But these days, when it comes to dealing with developing nations around the world, the United States seems to be ignoring its own swashbuckling heritage. Or at least that's the implication of a recent report by the international Commission on Intellectual Property Rights. The report recommends that the World Trade Organization's treaty on intellectual property rights be made much more flexible so that developing nations, from Brazil to Bangladesh, can adopt rules more at their own pace. 
 The global debate over intellectual property rights -- patents, copyrights and trademarks -- is focused mainly on forward-looking industries like computer software, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology. But Americans can look back to this nation's 19th-century experience in book publishing, for example, to understand the developing world's viewpoint. 
Back then, American law offered copyright protection -- but only to citizens and residents of the United States. The works of English authors were copied with abandon and sold cheap to an American public hungry for books. This so irritated Mr. Dickens -- whose "Christmas Carol" sold for 6 cents a copy in America, versus $2.50 in England -- that he toured the United States in 1842, urging the adoption of international copyright protection as being in the long-term interest of American authors and publishers. 
Such appeals proved unpersuasive until 1891, when the United States had a thriving literary culture and a book industry that wanted its own intellectual property protection abroad. So Congress passed a copyright act extending protection to foreign works in return for similar treatment for American authors overseas.
Indeed, the economies that were shining success stories of development, from the United States in the 19th century to Japan and its East Asian neighbors like Taiwan and South Korea in the 20th, took off under systems of weak intellectual property protection. Technology transfer came easily and inexpensively until domestic skills and local industries were advanced enough that stronger intellectual property protections became a matter of self-interest.
But according to the recent report, this kind of economic-development tactic -- copying to jump-start an industry -- is endangered by the United States-led push for stronger intellectual property rights worldwide. 
As part of a sweeping trade deal reached in 1994, the member nations of the World Trade Organization must adhere to a global agreement known as Trips, for Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. Trips stemmed partly from the prevailing belief during the 1990's that the "American model" -- free trade, wide-open capital markets and strong intellectual property protection -- was the sure way to global prosperity. 
But just as the prescriptions of the International Monetary Fund are now being questioned, as prosperity has proved elusive for countries like Brazil and Argentina, so are the W.T.O.'s intellectual property rules.
"If we cut off imitation strategies for developing countries, we are drastically narrowing the options they have to reach an economic takeoff," said John H. Barton, a professor at Stanford law school who led the commission on intellectual property rights. 
Many economists regard the 1994 agreement as a triumph for a few industries -- pharmaceuticals, software and Hollywood -- that stand to gain a lot from the protections and whose interests were championed by the United States government. "Trips was a matter of powerful companies with intellectual property concerns essentially dictating trade policy," said Keith E. Maskus, a trade expert at the University of Colorado.
The United States does stand to gain the most from stronger intellectual property protections, most of which must be in effect by 2005, under Trips. A World Bank study estimates that American companies would pocket an additional $19 billion a year in royalties, while developing nations like China, Mexico, Brazil and India -- net importers of intellectual property -- would pay more to the patent holders.
Intellectual property rights are temporary grants of monopoly intended to give economic incentives for innovative activity. Why toil for months or years to develop a new drug or think up a clever software program, the thinking goes, unless there is the potential for a big payoff? The intended result is that consumers will pay somewhat higher prices for an individual drug or software program but will benefit from all the additional innovation in the economy.
That is the theory. Within the United States, there is criticism that the corporate frenzy to patent any technical advance, even business methods, undermines innovation by unnecessarily restricting the flow of ideas. And just last week, the United States Supreme Court heard a challenge to a 1998 law that extended copyrights in this country by 20 years; the law's opponents contend that the extension inhibits public creativity by making it harder for other people to obtain and build upon existing works. But in general, the theory behind intellectual property rights tends to work in rich nations. 
The concern about Trips is that it is too much of a one-size-fits-all approach that works to the detriment of developing nations. "It would be fine if we lived in a world of all rich people," said Jeffrey D. Sachs, a development economist at Columbia University. "The danger with Trips is that it will mostly hurt the developing countries' access to ideas."
The report of the intellectual property rights commission, which was sponsored by the British government, includes a long list of recommendations, some of which would be anathema to American companies: 
*Encourage developing nations to make greater use of compulsory licensing of drugs.
*Allow more "reverse engineering" of software programs -- that is, copying a product by studying and making educated assumptions about the underlying code.
*Permit "cracking" of software used to protect copyrighted digital media, if the country determines that the copy-protection technology limits the fair use of digital text, video or music.
The commission's report comes amid a growing backlash in developing countries against the imposition of a strong global system of intellectual property rights. The lightning-rod issue has been the AIDS epidemic, and the resulting confrontation between developing nations and the pharmaceutical industry. 
Facing a public outcry and the threat of compulsory licensing in countries like South Africa, Brazil and India, the pharmaceutical companies began cutting prices by 80 percent or more on drugs for use in treating AIDS-related ailments in developing nations two years ago. 
The World Trade Organization, at its meeting last November in Doha, Qatar, issued a declaration that public health matters must be weighed equally with intellectual property rights. As part of the Doha declaration, the trade organization allowed the world's least developed nations, mostly in Africa, to exempt pharmaceuticals from patent protection until 2016. (The intellectual property rights commission recommends that exemption for the poorest nations be extended to all fields of technology.)
Whether the AIDS episode was a single, isolated case or a sign of a changing relationship between the developing counties and the pharmaceutical industry is uncertain. But emboldened developing countries could invoke the public health argument for diseases like heart disease and diabetes -- and the increasing sophistication of generic drug makers in India and China could give them alternate sources of supply.
"H.I.V.-AIDS is what made everybody think about this," said Dr. Jim Yong Kim, a professor at the Harvard Medical School and an expert on health projects in poor countries. "But I think access to medicine will be on the table much more broadly in the developing world."
The pharmaceutical makers insist that they responded quickly to the AIDS crisis, working cooperatively with the United Nations and other international agencies. But the industry says focusing on low-cost drugs alone ignores the more significant chronic hurdles to treating diseases of all kinds in developing nations -- lack of public health infrastructure, education, financing and political will. There are 35,000 people in Africa being treated under the international program begun two years ago, while an estimated 30 million people have H.I.V. in Africa. 
"There is plenty of supply," said Harvey E. Bale Jr., director general of the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Associations in Geneva. "Access is not the issue."
Those who defend the Trips global standards for intellectual property protection say that a strong patent system not only fuels innovation but provides the best way for developing nations to attract investment and encourage a rapid transfer of technology. China, for example, has steadily given foreign companies a greater measure of protection for intellectual property and last year signed on to Trips, when the nation joined the World Trade Organization. 
"There is no doubt that has played an important role in attracting R. & D. investment in China," said Brad Smith, the general counsel of Microsoft. In June, Microsoft announced that it would spend $700 million over the next three years in China in education, training and research, and in investments in local companies.
In the end, the debate over intellectual property rights, like the controversy over I.M.F. policies in developing nations, may be more a dispute about speed than direction. Free trade, open financial markets and intellectual property rights are economic goals worth pursuing. But that is not to say that the preferred path is necessarily the straight line of ideological purity. 
Trips, as it stands, reflects "a mentality borne of the American triumphalism of the 1990's," said Mr. Sachs of Columbia. "There is a widespread sense that that approach to development policy has to be recalibrated."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) Chart: "The Rich Would Get Richer"If a global agreement on intellectual property rights goes fully into effect, the developed nations, led by the United States, would gain the most, according to World Bank estimates. But developing nations would pay more. Estimated annual changes in net receipts and payments for patent licenses and royalties as a result of full application of the World Trade Organization's Trade-Related Intellectual Property Rights Agreement. United States -- +$19.1Germany -- +6.8Japan -- +5.7France -- +3.3 China -- -5.1Mexico -- -2.6India -- -0.9Brazil -- -0.5 (Source: World Bank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (94%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (94%); TRADEMARKS (90%); PATENT LAW (90%); COPYRIGHT (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COPYRIGHT LAW (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); WRITERS (89%); BOOK PUBLISHING (88%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PATENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL COPYRIGHT (77%); TRENDS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (74%); LITERATURE (72%); PUBLISHING (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); ENGLAND (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



414 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: It's a Site for the Truly Geeky, And ItEven Makes a Few Bucks 

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
The front door to the office of Slashdot bears a nerdy little joke. A computer key is glued to the door: "Enter." The other side of the door has an old "Return" key.
 That's the geeky essence of Slashdot.org, an online publication with a fanatical community of millions of readers that combines a rich view of technology with quick, off-kilter wit. 
 Could it be that this is the 21st-century model for Internet publishing? 
The highest-flying print publications of the dot-com bubble burbled about technology and the businesses that it fertilized. But now they and their glossy paper have fallen to earth. Just last week, Forbes ASAP and Upside joined the once-fat Industry Standard in the glossies' graveyard. "There is no market for a dedicated new-economy publication," said Monie Begley, a spokeswoman for Forbes.
But far away from the buzz and the glamour, Slashdot survives and thrives. Run out of a basement office in a suburb of Ann Arbor, Mich., Slashdot has remained true to the slogan: "News for nerds. Stuff that matters."
The secret to the online publication's moderate success? "They didn't buy a Super Bowl ad," joked Sean Bergeron, a fan from Virginia. 
It's a little more complicated than that, but not much. The company keeps its expenses low. Its creators write about what interests them. And -- here's where the business model may not be everyone's cup of Bawls Guarana energy drink -- they don't seem to care if the operation actually makes any money.
Publishing without paper is cheap and cheap is good, said Richard Seltzer, an Internet entrepreneur and author of "Web Business Boot Camp: Hands-on Internet Lessons for Managers, Entrepreneurs and Professionals" (Wiley, 2002). He said online publications like Slashdot could flourish "in a down market, and especially when the market for online advertising is in disastrous shape."
Slashdot persists as a must-read publication for the wizardly set, and especially those within the community of developers and fans of "open source" software like Linux, which is created and improved by legions of volunteers. The Web site provides the technically inclined a place to keep up with news, submit articles on their own, and discuss it all at length that can make a neophyte's head throb. The 25-year-old creators of the site, Rob Malda and Jeff Bates, estimate that in their five years online they have published 30,000 articles, served 500 million pages and amassed an audience estimated at 2 million people -- including some 50,000 who regularly enter the continuing conversation at least once a month.
"Slashdot is the best site in the world for techies that want to know," said Daniel Hedblom, a reader in Sweden.
The site's editors look for news and interesting sites, and cull hundreds of daily free submissions from readers and then edit and post a dozen or so articles each day. Those pieces are short, rarely more than 200 words, and offer links to other Web sites or news reports. The discussions then can go on for hundreds and even thousands of postings by readers, offering comment, argument and further research. Those who want to post without using their names are allowed to, but the system automatically gives them the user name "anonymous coward."
And, of course, there is the goofy stuff. Along with arcane discussions of software technology and licensing schemes, the editors post gleeful critiques of Microsoft and its wares, and approving commentary on pop/nerd culture, including Natalie Portman, Aibo robot dogs, Lego projects and fun science projects.
The creators also let pictures substitute for a thousand words. Small icons are attached to each item, including a much-used image of Bill Gates made up to look like a Star Trek Borg -- a race of half-man, half-machine beings that spreads across the universe and whose members drone: "Resistance is futile. You will be assimilated." It conveys everything that the geekerati think about the software mogul Mr. Gates.
"They have this fun combination of total geek cred and a good editor's eye for the weird and interesting and compelling," said Michael Hirschorn, senior vice president of news and production at the cable channel VH1, and co-founder of the late Inside.com, which was an online report on the world of media.
Mr. Hirschorn applauded Slashdot's "very smart balancing act," which he characterized as "appealing in a very intimate, direct way with its core audience and figuring out a way to branch out into other topics, like intellectual property, that would appeal to a broader audience."
He suggested, however, that any comparison between large business efforts like his Inside site and Slashdot were misleading. Slashdot's creators don't really "measure themselves as a business. They can meaure themselves as a cause," he said. "The fact that it's turned out to be a modest business is a happy surprise."
Does Slashdot, in fact, make money? Its owners say, yes, sort of. The site is owned by Open Source Development Network Inc., a subsidiary of the VA Software Corporation. Open Source runs a number of technology-related Web sites and an online store, ThinkGeek.
Richard French, senior vice president and general manager for Open Source, declined to break out the income of any one component of the company, except to say, "Slashdot works from a cost point of view and from a revenue perspective."
In fact, he acknowledged, "If you took any one of them on their own, probably none of them would be profitable," he said of Open Source's various Web sites.
But because many of the sites use the same hardy, low-maintenance software developed by Mr. Malda and his team, and because the Internet resources are pooled, the company says it is able to squeeze out a profit from the cluster, and makes further profits from sites that it sets up for businesses.
The sites have a combined audience of some six million people, Mr. French said, and a sizable number of those visitors go to ThinkGeek. The store offers a range of goods that techies love, including T-shirts with the logos of Slashdot and other affiliated sites, like Freshmeat and SourceForge, as well as shirts and caps that bear representations of the chemical structure of caffeine; caffeine-spiked candies; and even caffeine-saturated soap.
"Apparently, our readers need caffeinated soap," Mr. Malda said.
The arrangement works, Mr. French said, because the corporate owners do not interfere in the editorial decisions of the Slashdotters. "I don't go down and say, 'Rob I want you to write about this,' " he said. "Rob understands his community."
Mr. Malda added: "I still think of it as my personal soapbox. If I decide next Thursday that 'It's all about Windows!' I don't know if Slashdot would follow that -- but I would keep posting it and posting it until they fire me."
Mr. Malda and Mr. Bates met in high school in Holland, Mich., and went on to attend the local Hope College, where Mr. Malda created the site. He was soon joined in the effort by Mr. Bates, the way that kids in the old Judy Garland-Mickey Rooney movies put on a show with friends. They were stunned by the site's popularity, and even more stunned when it actually made money.
They once had visions of dot-com wealth of their own, and had immense paper profits when their site was bought in 1999 by the Open Source Development Network, then known as Andover.net. Open Source was then sold the next year to VA Linux (which later changed its name to VA Software). The 2000 transaction was, for a heady moment, valued at $975 million. That's when the company's stock was worth nearly $250 a share. These days, VA Software's stock trades for around 75 cents a share.
Mr. Bates said his stock did not make him rich, but he was able to sell some shares.
"Not as many as I would have liked," he said, "but that's the nature of lockup" -- the clauses that restrict a corporate insider's ability to sell newly acquired stock. "At the end of the day, I was able to buy a house, and hey, I'm not going to complain about that."
Fans of the site are ready, even impatient, for more.
One of the messages posted to the discussion of passing the five-year mark last month was a simple three words: "O.K., now what?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bars of caffeinated soap sold by ThinkGeek.com, a store tied to Slashdot. (pg. C4); The Slashdot crew, from left, Rob Malda, Jon Pater and Jeff Bates in their basement office in Dexter, Mich. Their audience is about 2 million. (Jeffrey Sauger for The New York Times)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (77%); WRITERS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); SPORTS MARKETING (68%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (60%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



415 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Under Ruling, Prilosec May Still Face Generic Rival
While AstraZeneca scored a victory late Friday in its battle to keep generic drug makers from undermining its $5.7 billion franchise in Prilosec, the popular ulcer treatment, it was hardly a complete one.
 A federal judge did uphold two important AstraZeneca patents on Prilosec, and the company said those patents were valid until 2007. But the judge also left the door wide open for an American unit of the German company Schwarz Pharma to make a lower-cost version much sooner. Market Place. Page C2. 

New Format Is Seen for 'Early Show'
CBS News is expected to announce as soon as today a new format and hosts for "The Early Show," the morning news program that started with so much promise three years ago but did not live up to expectations. C5.

A Second Act for Singing 'Idol'
Kelly Clarkson, the 20-year-old Texas waitress turned singer who captured America's fancy on "American Idol," the summer's hottest television series, is winning radio listeners and raking in huge record sales. Her double-sided CD, featuring "A Moment Like This" and "Before Your Love," has sold 450,000 copies and is the No. 1 selling single, according to Soundscan. C9.

ESPN.com to Offer Fast Clips
The sports Web site ESPN.com plans to introduce a free video-clip service to high-speed Internet users in the next few weeks. C2.

Talks to Revive Minibiographies
Atlas Books and HarperCollins are in talks to revive the series of minibiographies that married famous authors with famous subjects -- like Mary Gordon with Joan of Arc or Garry Wills with St. Augustine. C9.

An Uphill Battle in Copyright Case
There was a growing acknowledgment last week among a loose coalition opposed to a law that extended copyrights for 20 years that most people still do not quite understand the relevance of copyrights to their lives. C4.

Clash of Internet Privacy Policies
As more people adopt the latest version of Microsoft's Internet Explorer Web browser, its privacy features are creating unintended consequences. Users get more privacy protection than they once did. But on many Web sites they are also getting more pop-up ads and less personalized service, executives and analysts say. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C7.

Debate on Intellectual Property
In the 19th century, the United States was both a rapidly industrializing nation and a bold pirate of intellectual property. But these days, when it comes to dealing with developing nations around the world, the United States seems to be ignoring its own heritage. Or at least that's the implication of a recent report by an international panel, which recommends that the World Trade Organization's treaty on intellectual property rights be made much more flexible so that developing nations can adopt rules more at their own pace. New Economy. C4.

Emphasis Urged on Pushing Brands
The anxiety among consumer marketers over the sputtering economy was palpable throughout the 2002 annual meeting of the Association of National Advertisers here, as speaker after speaker offered unusually frank admonitions to concentrate scarce corporate resources on reasserting the power of name-brand products. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C8.

TXU Unit May Lose Infusion of Cash
TXU, the former Texas Utilities, is poised to withdraw a promised $700 million lifeline to its troubled European subsidiary. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 7,850.29 up 321.89Nasdaq composite -- 1,210.47 up 70.5710-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.81% up 0.14The euro -- $0.9871 up 0.0073The dollar -- 124.06 yen up 0.84

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); GENERIC DRUGS (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GASTROINTESTINAL AGENTS (90%); COPYRIGHT (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (89%); PATENT LAW (78%); PATENTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); JUDGES (72%); REALITY TELEVISION (70%); INTERNET PRIVACY (69%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (68%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (66%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (64%); WRITERS (64%); INTERNET BROWSERS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ASTRAZENECA PLC (84%); UCB SA (BELGIUM) (57%); ESPN INC (54%)

TICKER: AZN (STO) (84%); AZN (NYSE) (84%); AZN (LSE) (84%); UCB (BRU) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



416 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 810 words

PERSON: James Searles 

HEADLINE: James Searles, 90, a Master of Lightning-Fast Checkers 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
James Searles, who elevated the lightning-fast form of checkers played mainly by black men in barbershops, parks and sidewalks to the province of an exclusive if distinctly clamorous society -- the Brooklyn Elite Pool Checker Club -- died in Brooklyn on Oct. 5. He was 90. 
 A retired warehouse worker, he lived in the Bushwick neighborhood of Brooklyn. 
 Mr. Searles, who was known by the nickname Step, and friends with names like Ghost, Tijuana and the Mighty Claw could not stay away from the club on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights. They lived for the clack-clack, the resounding exclamations of victory and, not least, the odd side bet. They lived, mainly, for one another. 
"Checker players is really a brotherhood -- like family," Mr. Searles said in an oral history included in "Holding On," a book about eccentric Americans by David Isay (Norton, 1995).
"If there's a sickness in one of the guys' family, we raise money," he continued. "If a guy gets unemployed, another guy will pay his dues. We look out for each other. I don't know no other group of people who do that." 
But the game mattered, mightily, and Mr. Searles set the club's objectives high. The constitution he drafted in 1972 pledged "to elevate checkers to a level of respect equal to or greater than that of any other national or international pastime." 
He personally never needed persuasion about the greatness of pool checkers, as the game is known in the United States. He missed the boat for a Jamaican honeymoon cruise with his bride 50 years ago because he was wrapped up in a game.
"They had a cash prize," he said in an interview with The New York Times in 1991. "That calmed her down a little bit."
Pool checkers differs from the checkers most people know. One difference is that single pieces can jump forward or backward diagonally. Another is that when a piece reaches the other side and is crowned, it becomes a king that can jump over more than one open square, even turning in midjump.
Mr. Searles estimated that 95 percent of black people play pool checkers. And, he said, in Russia, Eastern Europe and other European countries, people play a form of the game much closer to his. 
The fame of one Russian checkers champion, Vladimir Kaplan, preceded his immigration from the Soviet Union. Mr. Searles and other members of his club, one of whom spoke some Russian, met Mr. Kaplan at the airport, spirited him to their clubhouse and offered to pay his way to the national championships in Atlanta. He won.
Bobby Fischer, then a young chess grandmaster from Brooklyn, dropped by the club in the mid-1970's. Mr. Searles said Mr. Fischer had pronounced pool checkers a hard game that gave him a headache to watch. 
James William Searles was born in Philadelphia on March 1, 1912, and played his first game in a park there. "Naturally I lost the first time, and I got beat so bad that I just couldn't give it up," he said in the oral history. 
He improved, partly by playing with other people on public works projects during the Depression. He said he "would shovel some dirt, and then move some checkers."
In Philadelphia, he worked as a bellhop at the Douglas Hotel, which catered to black guests. There was a checkerboard in the hotel lobby where he said he played almost everyone in Duke Ellington's band. He had some great games with Count Basie, and beat the comedian Moms Mabley, though she complained he took too long to move. 
Mr. Searles worked in New York as a longshoreman and became a regular player in games at Mount Morris Park in Harlem. He played in barbershops (a custom reflected in the movie "Barbershop," with Ice Cube and Cedric the Entertainer). After a shop closed for the day, players would move the game to the sidewalk.
Mr. Searles said he organized the club because he was ashamed that there was no regular place to play. He found a place on Fulton Avenue in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, for $125 a month. When the landlord raised the rent, the club scraped together $5,000 to buy another place down the street. That building was accidentally destroyed by workers demolishing a building next door.
They had no place to go for more than a decade, until the Salvation Army began to let them play regularly in their library in Fort Greene in 1989. 
Mr. Searles is survived by his wife, Delores; his daughter, Sadie; and three grandchildren, all of Brooklyn. Two hundred members of his club also survive him. 
In the interview with The Times, Mr. Searles recalled a phone conversation in which he told the wife of one club member that playing checkers helped keep a married man out of trouble. 
"Mrs. So-and-So, if you got a husband playing checkers, you got nothing to worry about, because he's not drinking, gambling or running around with women," he patiently told her.
"But checkers can't do what I can do for him," she replied slyly. 
Speechless, he hung up.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Searles, who organized the Brooklyn Elite Pool Checker Club. (Harvey Wang, from "Holding On" Norton, 1994 ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); BOARD GAMES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); POOL & BILLIARDS (77%); HISTORY (68%); IMMIGRATION (64%); INTERVIEWS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (86%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (85%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



417 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1513 words

HEADLINE: Auditors Say U.S. Agencies Lose Track of Billions 

BYLINE:  By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13 

 BODY:
Year after year, auditors studying the financial records of federal government departments find many of them so disorganized, even chaotic, that the agencies cannot account for tens of billions of dollars.
 What is more, when many agencies realize that they have made major accounting errors, rather than looking back to see where the money went, they simply enter multibillion-dollar balance adjustments, writing off the money. 
 That is just one of many problems that auditors typically find in annual financial statements of government agencies. The 2001-2002 fiscal year ended Sept. 30, so government agencies are preparing statements now.
In the last year, the Office of Management and Budget has taken on the financial accounting problem in something like an auditor's holy war. In a letter to Congress on Oct. 7, Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., director of the budget office, said the federal government's accounts would "never be tolerated in the private sector," adding that "repair of a system so badly broken will not happen overnight." 
In part to embarrass the agencies so they will improve their financial performance, the budget office early this year began rating the 24 largest federal departments, scoring each green, yellow or red. Green indicates that the agency's financial systems are acceptable, yellow that they are troubled but improving and red that there are serious, chronic problems. In the most recent rating, completed in June, only one agency was rated green, the tiny National Science Foundation. Twenty were rated red.
The Department of Defense routinely makes the largest financial blunders. In the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, 2000, auditors found, the department entered unsubstantiated balance adjustments totaling $1.1 trillion. That was an improvement over the previous year, when the figure was $2.3 trillion.
"They just made the adjustments up," said a senior official with the Defense Department's inspector general's office. 
That does not mean $1.1 trillion is missing. Some adjustments were deposits, others were debits. For example, the Defense Finance and Accounting Service found last year that its accounts were out of balance with the Treasury Department, the bank, by $3.9 billion. Instead of determining the source of the discrepancy, the service simply entered a balance adjustment for that amount. Hundreds of similar adjustments are behind the $1.1 trillion total.
Over all, the department's financial records are so chaotic -- the agency has more than 1,100 accounting systems -- that Congress advised the agency's auditors not to bother even trying to audit them.
Three other federal agencies -- the Agriculture Department, NASA and the Agency for International Development -- had unauditable books in 2000-2001. But even many of the agencies that received so-called clean audits -- with books well organized enough to be audited -- had serious financial shortcomings.
The Internal Revenue Service, for example, is unable to produce a hard figure for the amount of tax payments due the government. Instead it runs a statistical sample of taxes due and from that derives an estimate -- an arduous process that takes several months. That estimate is one of the figures the government uses to plan spending for the year.
All told, for the 2000-2001 fiscal year, the Treasury Department entered a balance deduction from the government's general fund of $17.3 billion to make up for financial errors throughout the government. The government also recorded at least $33 billion in erroneous payments last year, like improper Medicare payments of $12.1 billion.
"We have to pump money into the executive branch to help them balance these things out," said Representative Steve Horn, the California Republican who is chairman of the House Subcommittee on Government Management. 
Audits of the departments' financial statements for the fiscal year 2001-2002 are due early next year. 
For most of the nation's history, no one asked much of government agencies in terms of financial accounting. The Constitution said only that "a regular statement and account of the receipts and expenditures of all public money shall be published from time to time."
Early last century Congress passed laws prohibiting government agencies from spending more than Congress appropriated. These laws have not been entirely successful. For example, in the 2000-2001 fiscal year the Forest Service alone overspent its budget by $1.1 billion.
Starting in the 1990's, Congress began passing more requirements. One law, in 1994, required each agency for the first time to produce annual financial statements. Those reports would be subject to audit, and in 1996, the first year audited statements were due, only 6 of the 24 agencies produced statements that it was possible to audit.
An additional law, in 1996, required major agencies to install a financial accounting system that could generate auditable statements and give managers the ability to examine the agency's situation before making decisions on programs or policies -- something they could not do. 
Now, six years later, only the National Science Foundation has a financial accounting system, and most of the major agencies are still years away from attaining one. 
As a result, the annual task of preparing a financial statement is a Herculean effort involving hundreds, perhaps thousands, of people at every level of a department, who must pull together records of everything a department has done over the year.
At the Internal Revenue Service, for example, "it's a massive effort that begins in the mid-July time frame and typically continues well into late January," said Steven Sebastian, a senior official in the agency's inspector general's office. 
Several officials said this labor-intensive process distracted from the agencies' principal work. The Immigration and Naturalization Service, for example, "had to count manually approximately five million immigration applications" to determine fees due the government, said an inspector general's report, adding that the work "shut down production at several sites for more than a week and caused delays in processing applications."
In the end, to make the books balance, agencies make "billions of dollars in adjustments," the 2000-2001 audit of the federal government said. 
The government's financial rating system shows the Department of Agriculture to be the worst managed major agency. 
The agency's financial statements are in such disarray that they have been unauditable since 1994. But Edward R. McPherson, the department's chief financial officer, insisted in a recent interview that most of the problems had been solved and that future audits would be much improved. His predecessors have made similar assertions.
A senior auditor in the inspector general's office, while acknowledging that "there have been changes" at the department, added that "we won't know anything until we complete the audit" early next year.
The audit for the 2000-2001 fiscal year, completed last February, showed that the department made unsubstantiated balance adjustments totaling $2.9 billion.
"I can't tell you what's in that figure," said the senior auditor, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "I don't think they even know."
Behind it, audit reports show, is a department in financial disarray. After seven years of trying, the Agriculture Department recently completed installation of a financial accounting system. But another inspector general's audit, last summer, found the system to be largely dysfunctional because of user errors and unauthorized modifications.
For example the system uses a "funds control" program to limit spending to the budgeted amount. In 68 accounts, the audit said, agency employees had overridden the control, or not turned it on, leading to $1.3 billion in what was apparently overspending. When auditors tried to view the system's override log, to see how the overspending had occurred, they found it turned off.
The system included a payment limit for each check of $999,999. But users who could not be identified by auditors had added a digit, changing the limit to $9,999,999. Contrary to agency rules requiring approval from supervisors, more than 2,200 agency employees had been authorized to process certain payments with no oversight or approval, raising the risk of fraud, auditors said. In addition, 186 people who no longer worked for the department still had approved access to the system.
The Forest Service, a division of the department, tries to hold back money each year so it has money available to fight forest fires. In 2001, as in most years, the service could not figure out how much money it had available and overspent by $274 million, auditors found.
At the end of the fiscal year, in a feverish and ultimately futile effort to make the agency's books balance, the Forest Service made 15,337 adjustments, credits and debits, over several weeks. They totaled $11 billion. Auditors examined 144 of those adjustments, totaling $7.9 billion, and found that 73 percent were "unsupported, unapproved and erroneous."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "SCORECARD: Flaws in Government Bookkeeping"The White Houses budget office rates nearly all federal agencies as having serious problems with their financial systems. RED: Has any of a number of serious flawsYELLOW: Meets some but not all standardsGREEN: Meets all standards 1: Financial management2: Spending effectiveness AGENCY: Interior Dept.ESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: $ 10.7CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: REDPROGREES 2: YELLOW AGENCY: Agriculture Dept.ESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: 76.5CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: GREENPROGREES 2: RED AGENCY: Health and Human Services Dept.ESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: 468.5CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: YELLOWPROGREES 2: YELLOW AGENCY: Housing and Urban Development Dept.ESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: 34.3CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: YELLOWPROGREES 2: YELLOW AGENCY: AGENCY: Army Corps of EngineersESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: $ 4.8CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: YELLOWPROGREES 2: YELLOW AGENCY: Education Dept.ESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: 55.3CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: YELLOWPROGREES 2: GREEN AGENCY: Veterans Affairs Dept.ESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: 51.7CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: YELLOWPROGREES 2: GREEN AGENCY: Treasury Dept.ESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: 383.1CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: GREENPROGREES 2: YELLOW AGENCY: Defense Dept.ESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: $333.0CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: GREENPROGREES 2: YELLOW AGENCY: Office of Personnel ManagementESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: 56.3CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: GREENPROGREES 2: YELLOW AGENCY: Energy Dept.ESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: 19.2CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: GREENPROGREES 2: YELLOW AGENCY: State Dept.ESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: 9.5CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: GREENPROGREES 2: YELLOW AGENCY: Federal Emergency Management AgencyESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: $ 7.3CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: GREENPROGREES 2: YELLOW AGENCY: Justice Dept.ESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: 26.3CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: GREENPROGREES 2: GREEN AGENCY: NASAESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: 15.0CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: GREENPROGREES 2: GREEN AGENCY: Commerce Dept.ESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: 5.5CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: GREENPROGREES 2: GREEN AGENCY: Agency for International DevelopmentESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: $ 7.1CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: GREENPROGREES 2: GREEN AGENCY: Small Business AdministrationESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: 1.2CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: YELLOWPROGRESS 1: GREENPROGREES 2: YELLOW AGENCY: E.P.A.ESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: 8.0CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: YELLOWPROGRESS 1: YELLOWPROGREES 2: GREEN AGENCY: Transportation Dept.ESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: 64.4CURRENT RATING 1: REDCURRENT RATING 2: YELLOWPROGRESS 1: GREENPROGREES 2: GREEN AGENCY: General Services AdministrationESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: $ 0.6CURRENT RATING 1: YELLOWCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: GREENPROGREES 2: YELLOW AGENCY: Labor Dept.ESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: 59.4CURRENT RATING 1: YELLOWCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: GREENPROGREES 2: GREEN AGENCY: Social Security AdministrationESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: 492.1CURRENT RATING 1: YELLOWCURRENT RATING 2: YELLOWPROGRESS 1: GREENPROGREES 2: GREEN AGENCY: National Science FoundationESTIMATED 2002 BUDGET, IN BILLIONS: 4.9CURRENT RATING 1: GREENCURRENT RATING 2: REDPROGRESS 1: GREENPROGREES 2: YELLOW (Source: Office of Management and Budget) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); AUDITS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (79%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (83%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%)

PERSON: MITCH DANIELS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



418 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 2167 words

HEADLINE: THE RACE FOR GOVERNOR; 
Excerpts From the Debate Among the Candidates for Governor

 BODY:
 Following are excerpts from the debate yesterday among the candidates for governor, as recorded by The New York Times. The participants were H. Carl McCall, Democratic Party; Gerard J. Cronin, Right to Life Party; George E. Pataki, Republican Party; Thomas K. Leighton, Marijuana Reform Party; Scott Jeffrey, Libertarian Party; Stanley Aronowitz, Green Party; and Tom Golisano, Independence Party. A full transcript is online at nytimes.com/nyregion.

Taxes

Q. -- . . . Can you promise right now that there will not be a tax increase next year if elected?

MR. CRONIN -- I cannot make that promise. . . . I don't think that's being honest to the people. Taxes are part of life. They hurt, you know. I mean they hurt. For instance, when I was a teacher, I'm a teacher, and out of every $100 that I make I take home $62. That's an awful lot of money to be taken out of your check. But every once in a while you do have to raise taxes. I think what you have to do is try to make the taxes as fair as possible. I'm not saying that you should tax the rich, but if there are special interests, like for instance now they just, they raised the taxes obviously on smoking to a great degree. Things like that. Perhaps things like alcohol. Things like special entertainments. Things like luxury items . . . So I would try my best to not tax the little guy, but to try and tax those who perhaps are in a better position. But I would try my best to avoid taxes if at all possible.

Q. -- . . . Mr. Pataki, the issue is raising taxes.

MR. PATAKI -- . . . I can tell you right now we're not going to raise taxes next year. We've been through this before: 1995 a $5 billion deficit. And we not only did not raise taxes, we began the most sweeping tax-cut program in the history of this state. We have cut taxes 63 times. The gross savings is over $100 billion. And 25 percent of all tax cuts in America over the course of the past seven and a half years have been in New York.
I mean, today in this city if you go out and purchase an article of clothing with a value of up to $110, you don't pay any state or city sales tax anymore. We have the STAR tax-cut program to help our seniors and all homeowners deal with their school tax problems, and we've been very successful. And today more than 200,000 senior citizens in this state pay no property, school property taxes at all because of our STAR program.
We're going to have to reduce again and control the size of state government. . . . But we've done it throughout my term; we'll continue to do that.

Q. -- . . . Mr. Leighton.

MR. LEIGHTON -- . . . The Marijuana Reform Party has an economic plan based upon a new hemp industry that will bring in new revenue. Now, we all know most people don't want to pay taxes, but there is one group who does. I represent close to one million New Yorkers who are . . . willing to pay taxes. New Yorkers who smoke marijuana would much rather pay taxes to the state via a regulated market for marijuana and not have to risk getting arrested or buying their marijuana from a black-market dealer. I am probably the only candidate on this stage who has a constituency that wants to pay more taxes.

Q. -- . . . Mr. Jeffrey.

MR. JEFFREY -- Well, I am a pot smoker who does not want to pay more taxes, but I'm fighting against the cigarette tax. It's a regressive tax on the working families of our state. The average smoker pays over $500 a year through this tax and it's over $1,000 if you live in the city. And the cigarette tax is much like a lottery: it is billed as voluntary, but when you break it down the revenues raised come from our poorest community. . . .
. . . I think I'm the only candidate up here who is against the cigarette tax.

Q. -- . . . Mr. Aronowitz.

MR. ARONOWITZ -- If we do not raise taxes on those best able to afford them, we're going to have layoffs of state workers right after this election, tuition in higher education, public higher education, is going to be increased. . . . I have a plan and the plan is relatively simple. On those incomes above $80,600 payroll taxes, when the Social Security tax stops, I am for a 2 percent general welfare tax on all that income. So if you make $100,000 a year, you would pay $380 in additional taxes. This could raise us $4 billion. And I'm for taxing those corporations who do business with the three stock exchanges.

Q. -- . . . Mr. Golisano . . .

MR. GOLISANO -- I'm always amused at the difference between perception and reality. Mr. Pataki has said that he's reduced taxes. Our state budget, under his jurisdiction, has gone from $62 billion to $89 billion. That is a 45 percent increase, that is $1,500 for every man, woman and child. If taxpayers aren't paying those taxes, I don't know who is. Maybe Santa Claus is. But our taxes have definitely gone up. . . .

MR. McCALL -- . . . I think the issue here is credibility in terms of who has the credibility by standing here and saying, 'I'm not going to cut taxes because I have a plan.' I have the credibility because I've saved the taxpayers, actually, over $4 billion over the last several years because of my management of the pension fund.
On the other hand, Governor Pataki talks about the fact he reduced taxes. What he really did is he transferred the tax burden from the state to the localities. Tom Golisano mentioned it. Right now, for instance, property taxes here in New York State are the highest in the nation: 72 percent above the national average. Just in the last week Nassau County announced that they're going to increase their property taxes by 19 percent, Westchester by 31 percent. . . . The other thing that's happened is fees have increased. And what is a fee but another tax? We face the prospect of an increase in the fare for the Metropolitan Transit Authority. Why? That's just a hidden tax because of the mismanagement and lack of information by the people who have been appointed to the M.T.A. by Governor Pataki. So credibility's the issue. Look at the record of who cut taxes, who saved people money in the past and who's committed to continue to save money for taxpayers.

Leadership

Q. -- . . . As governor, you've promised to overhaul the harsh Rockefeller drug laws. You said you would include gays in the state's nondiscrimination laws. And you said you would lead the way for significant campaign finance reform. Nothing of substance has really happened on any of these issues. Why didn't you succeed and why should the voters believe that you will be any more successful in your --

MR. PATAKI -- . . . Let me say that I'm proud of the leadership I've shown over the course of the past seven and a half years. And this state has achieved more reforms and greater change under my leadership than, I believe, in decades prior. Just take a look at our health care system. We have completely changed the way the system operates, making it more accessible and more affordable. . . .
We have now the finest senior citizen prescription drug program, our EPIC program, anywhere in America. We're the only state in America today where every single child is entitled to comprehensive health insurance. And we're in the process now of making sure that lower-income working adults are entitled to this. We've reformed our criminal justice system from top to bottom. And our streets are the safest they've been in a generation. We ended parole and early release for violent felons. We created a tougher approach to criminals so that they have to spend more time behind bars. And we have achieved dramatic reform in education as well. And one of the most important reforms that we achieved this year was finally giving control of the New York City schools to the mayor of this city. We will continue to fight for reforms and achieve those.

Q. -- . . . Mr. Leighton.

MR. LEIGHTON -- Well, I certainly would not want to fault the leadership of Governor Pataki. I think he's done an interest -- a good job, and the voters of New York seem to support him. But the Rockefeller drug laws that you mentioned are an especially important issue to my party and my platform. There are at least . . . $600 million spent every year to house 19,000 nonviolent drug offenders, 94 percent of whom are black and Hispanic. This policy has just got to change. The question is how are we going to do it? And I think that's why we do need a Marijuana Reform Party, we need a political voice for people who want to change drug laws in this state. . . .

Q. -- . . . Mr. Jeffrey.

MR. JEFFREY -- Well, on the subject of leadership, I'm running for governor to empower youth and provide my generation a voice in politics. Young New Yorkers are politically apathetic because we don't meet candidates with whom we identify and who campaign on issues relevant to our lives. So besides my own campaign, I've been very active in recruiting other young New Yorkers to run for office. . . . I also empower youth by providing fliers on my Web site so people can speak out on the issues, on youth issues, and get them out in the public forum.
So I invite young people to visit my Web site. It's www.votejeffrey.com. . . .

Q. -- . . . Mr. Aronowitz.

MR. ARONOWITZ -- Well, I can't see how we are going to make our campaigns a level playing field as long as we have large corporations and wealthy individuals supporting candidates to the tune of millions upon millions of dollars. What we need in the first place is campaign finance reform. We need public funding of campaigns. And we need a sharp limitation on the amount of money that individuals can give to candidates. Secondly, it is outrageous that we still don't really have full gay rights in our state legislation. And thirdly, I obviously do not want to change our marijuana, excuse me, our Rockefeller drug laws, I want to repeal them and decriminalize drugs. We can save billions of dollars if we actually get rid of these laws because it reminds me of prohibition in the 1920's, when alcohol was illegal. And I think drug illegality is really an irrational response to the fears that people have.

Q. -- . . . Mr. Golisano

MR. GOLISANO -- . . . Of course, crime is down all over the United States, and during the last eight years Mr. Pataki has taken a lot of credit for reducing crime. I sort of equate it to a rooster taking credit for a sunrise. Crime is down all over the country; we enjoyed the benefits here in New York State. The Rockefeller laws that you asked about are quite harsh. For example, a person caught with four ounces of a narcotic substance could be sent to prison for 15 years to life. Politicians should not be making those type of decisions, judges should be. But if we do really want to continue to reduce crime the one thing we can do that'll make the biggest difference is people who have jobs do not commit crimes. We've got to get our taxpayer money back to the people, let them spend it on the things that makes their quality of life better and that will create jobs. When government takes our money, we don't create jobs, we just create waste.

Q. -- . . . Mr. McCall.

MR. McCALL -- You know, leadership is about accepting responsibility. The governor has to accept the responsibility for the fact that the gay rights bill didn't pass, that campaign finance reform has not been enacted, that we still have late budgets. . . .
And now the new scandal that we see, in terms of the fact that we've got the United States Justice Department coming to New York to look at the scandals in our nursing homes. The fact that under Governor Pataki that people have been pushed out of mental health institutions operated by the state and now we learn that they're being locked up in nursing homes, which is a violation of their civil rights.

Q. -- . . . Mr. Cronin.

MR. CRONIN -- Yes, well, I think that we have some serious problems in politics today, leadership. I'd like to comment on the governor's leadership. I believe George Pataki did a fine job during the crisis of 9/11. I think upstate and downstate, with the leadership of Rudy Giuliani, that there was a real team effort. I think Mr. Cuomo, who's not here today, really hurt himself terribly by making a negative statement in regards to the governor's leadership. . . .

Q. -- . . . Mr. Pataki, in the interest of fairness, we'll give you 30 seconds to respond to what's been said.

MR. PATAKI -- Well, I'm proud of my leadership and I'm proud of what we've done. And just responding specifically to Tom's comment on crime: I ended early release and work release for violent felons in this state. The rate of crime in those programs is down by 91 percent. The rate of violent crime is down by more in New York State than any state in America. . . . With respect to the mental health question, Carl, I fully am proud of my professionals and what they've done. When I took office, there were 5,000 New Yorkers in nursing homes, not in New York, locked up out of state away from their families, away from the community. We are bringing them back and that is an important positive thing for them and for their families.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); SALES TAX (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); TRANSCRIPTS (73%); LUXURY GOODS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



419 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: THE RACE FOR GOVERNOR: THE DRUG LAWS; 
Golisano to Take to Airwaves To Condemn Rockefeller Laws

BYLINE:  By SHAILA K. DEWAN

 BODY:
Staking out a far more sweeping position on the Rockefeller drug laws than either of his opponents in the race for governor, Tom Golisano will call today for the laws' repeal, his campaign aides said.
 Mr. Golisano, the Independence Party candidate, has said as much before, with little fanfare. But now, he will back up his statement by broadcasting commercials that accuse Gov. George E. Pataki of offering a Rockefeller plan that is "not real reform." 
 Campaign aides would not say exactly how much Mr. Golisano, who has already spent nearly $40 million on his bid for the governorship, will spend on the new ad campaign. But, Roger Stone, Mr. Golisano's campaign adviser, said, "Everyone will know his position by the end of the week."
"Tom Golisano is the most conservative candidate in this race, and he is acknowledging that the Rockefeller laws are harsh, ineffective and expensive," Mr. Stone said, noting that more than $700 million is spent yearly to incarcerate drug offenders. "We are hopeful that his position will give others now the cover they need to get these laws repealed."
While Mr. Golisano's candidacy is considered a long shot by most political professionals, he has raised several issues, including higher education and the upstate economy, that have broadened the agenda of the campaign. The drug laws' critics see the commercials as an opportunity to revive an issue that has slipped somewhat from the public eye.
"The issue will really be aired out," said Randy Credico, the organizer of the Mothers of the New York Disappeared, a group that has lobbied against the laws. "The only time people are reminded of the Rockefeller drug laws is when someone in the news media writes one of these horror stories. Now they'll be reminded daily about the horrors of the Rockefeller drug laws." 
The laws impose lengthy mandatory minimum sentences on even first-time, nonviolent drug offenders. Efforts to amend them are stalled in a situation not atypical of Albany politics: everyone professes to agree that the laws are too harsh, but no one agrees on what to do about it.
H. Carl McCall, Mr. Pataki's Democratic challenger, has accused the governor of failing to live up to his promise to change the laws substantially, and Mr. Pataki in turn has blamed the Democratic leaders of the State Assembly for refusing to compromise.
The principal difference between the Assembly plan, which Mr. McCall supports, and the governor's plan is that the Assembly would give judges greater discretion over which offenders would receive treatment instead of prison time.
Advocates for change have hoped that the impending election would pressure Mr. Pataki into a compromise, especially since the governor seems intent on winning over Latino voters. Nine out of 10 people imprisoned under the laws are black or Latino.
But the debate in Albany has been over the degree of change, and advocates have long been told that outright repeal of the laws is a political impossibility. Like Mr. Golisano, Andrew M. Cuomo, who ran against Mr. McCall in the Democratic primary, called for abolishing the laws.
Mr. Golisano's commercials, in both English and Spanish, will feature people who were imprisoned under the laws and their family members, including Hilda Garcia, who has blamed Governor Pataki for her husband's death in prison, at age 68, after he was denied clemency for his crime of acting as a lookout for a drug gang, which earned him a sentence of 15 years to life.
Mr. Golisano will release a detailed position paper today that emphasizes treatment over incarceration for nonviolent, first-time offenders, and that advocates redirecting law enforcement resources toward apprehending kingpins instead of low-level drug offenders, Mr. Stone said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (78%); POLITICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); SENTENCING (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); PRISONS (72%); CONSERVATISM (68%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



420 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: THE HUNT FOR A SNIPER: THE VICTIM; 
10th Victim Is Recalled As Motivator On Mission

BYLINE:  By ELISSA GOOTMAN

 BODY:
Bearing dishes of chicken salad, lasagna and carved turkey, friends and relatives of Kenneth H. Bridges gathered yesterday at his three-story gray stone home in the East Germantown section of Philadelphia.
 Behind windows shrouded by pine and oak trees, they comforted Mr. Bridges's wife, Jocelyn, whom friends described as an intensely private woman sustained by deep spirituality, and the couple's six children, ages 12 to 24. They arranged speakers and security provisions for a memorial service, which is scheduled to take place tomorrow, and they sifted through photographs of happier times: Mr. Bridges playing tennis. Mr. Bridges in business school. 
 They fielded telephone calls from people in Georgia, California, Illinois and elsewhere who knew Mr. Bridges, 53, from his motivational speeches and his years of work promoting African-American economic empowerment. They also confirmed the worst for the callers: yes, the Ken Bridges who had co-founded the Matah Network, a distribution company devoted to improving African-American-owned businesses, was the same man who had been shot to death while pumping gasoline near Fredericksburg, Va., on Friday morning. The police said they believed Mr. Bridges was the 10th person shot by the Washington-area sniper. 
"Some of them call and they cry, they don't even get into talking," said Karen Wellington, a close family friend who is a vice president of the Matah Network, based in Oaklyn, N.J. "You go through, 'Why?' With this man who he was, doing what he was doing, on a mission, why?"
Mr. Bridges's mission was to encourage African-Americans to spend their money on products made by black-owned companies, and his economic blueprint was part of a larger philosophy. He believed that blacks, still suffering from the psychological trauma of slavery, lacked "that basic love for self that so many other peoples have," said Al Wellington, Ms. Wellington's husband and the chief executive of the Matah Network, which Mr. Bridges served as executive vice president.
The network, through which individual distributors sell black-manufactured products as varied as moisturizing lotion, clothing and board games, was the latest and most successful manifestation of Mr. Bridges's beliefs, Mr. Wellington said. 
The idea, Mr. Wellington said, was "to organize a marketplace and then become the facilitating link between black producers and consumers."
Mr. Wellington added, "Ken not only had vision and purpose, but he also had methodology, and that's the thing that so many of the other leaders were lacking." 
When he was not traveling to churches and community organizations across the country, Mr. Bridges would walk into the company office and hug every person inside before opening his briefcase to start working, Ms. Wellington said.
"You know how some people are so upbeat?" she said. "You just couldn't help to be pulled into that energy." 
Mr. Bridges grew up primarily in Detroit. After earning an M.B.A. from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, he worked for several years at the Scott paper company. At the same time, he worked as an Amway distributor and became quite successful, friends said. He left Amway, they said, when he grew frustrated at his failure to get it to sell more products made by black-owned companies. 
In the 1980's, Mr. Bridges helped start a program with an agenda similar to that of Matah, called Power, or People Organized and Working for Economic Rebirth. Mr. Wellington said the program ran into trouble after he and Mr. Bridges had a disagreement with Louis Farrakhan, the leader of the Nation of Islam, over the extent to which the two groups should be linked. Mr. Bridges distanced himself from Power, Mr. Wellington said, and helped found Matah about 10 years later. 
Jamil Muhammad, a spokesman for Mr. Farrakhan, was one of dozens of people who posted messages of shock, mourning and homage on the Matah Web site this weekend. 
"He had the beautiful family, the well-mannered children and the stone home on a tree-lined street of Philadelphia, but he did all of that without what we call selling out," Mr. Muhammad said in a telephone interview. "He showed us that we could have the material wherewithal to support our families." 
"In many ways he was like Detroit, where he came from," Mr. Muhammad said. "Times weren't always the best, but he was always plucky and upbeat." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (88%); EXECUTIVES (86%); CHILDREN (78%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (75%); RELIGION (71%); TENNIS (70%); SPORTS (70%); BOARD GAMES (70%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (68%); MENTAL ILLNESS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



421 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
Policing a Fine, Porous Line Across the Perilous West Desert Corridor

BYLINE:  By ANDRES MARTINEZ

DATELINE: TUCSON 

 BODY:
It's a 40-mile walk across some of the world's most oppressive desert landscape from the Mexican border to the patch of desert near the highway where the Border Patrol chopper hovered above the exhausted group of young men. The 21 Mexicans pursuing the American dream -- the $5-an-hour version -- had almost made it. 
 As he booked the young men, David BeMiller, a Border Patrol agent, made them an enticing offer: "Would you like to return to Mexico as soon as possible without any punishment?" Most migrants accept the offer, opting for an immediate administrative deportation once their fingerprints are run through a database to determine how many times they have tried crossing. The Tucson United States attorney's office doesn't automatically prosecute migrants unless they have tried entering 15 times. Call it the "15 strikes and you're out" policy. 
 An hour's drive away in Tucson, Mr. BeMiller's wife, Michele, teaches English as a second language, often to the children of the unauthorized migrants who elude her husband. There are sound public policy reasons for not checking papers at the schoolhouse door, but the juxtaposition of the BeMillers' careers says a lot about our society's ambivalence toward immigration, particularly toward the relentless stream of Mexicans who illegally cross the 1,950-mile-long border.
That ambivalence has never been more pronounced than in recent years, a time when the economic contribution of undocumented workers has been increasingly acknowledged and border security has been steadily tightened. The United States cannot seem to decide whether to post "Do Not Trespass" or "Help Wanted" signs along its southern border. We criminalize entry without a permit, direct the Border Patrol to seal the frontier, then eagerly hire the migrants who are successful in running the gantlet. 
There are now an estimated eight million illegal immigrants in the United States. Entire industries, like agriculture, would suffer if these immigrants were rounded up and deported overnight. 
President Bush took office with ambitious hopes of addressing these contradictions. He entered into negotiations with Mexico's president, Vicente Fox, to create a new temporary worker program, expand the number of legal visas for Mexicans and provide something akin to an amnesty for undocumented workers already here. The ambitious aim was to rationalize the flow of labor and reverse the undesirable growth of a shadow economy in this country. But when other issues seized Mr. Bush's attention after the Sept. 11 attacks, Washington seemed to lose interest. It is time for the two nations to resume negotiations in earnest. 
While the talks have stagnated, the Border Patrol has become more aggressive about carrying out its thankless mission. Having grown from some 4,000 agents in 1994 to almost 10,000 today, the patrol has regained control of the border in and around urban areas.
This has redirected illegal immigration into more remote areas. The group being rounded up as I rode along with Agent BeMiller was wise to attempt the desert crossing in October, when temperatures retreat back to the double digits. During the summer, ground temperatures can often reach 140 degrees in this desolate expanse the patrol calls the West Desert Corridor.
The corridor is the epicenter of a humanitarian disaster along the southwestern border. Last year most of the 134 deaths in the Border Patrol's Tucson sector, one of eight sectors along the Mexican border, occurred here. There have been some 2,000 deaths along the border since vigilance was stepped up in 1994.
In hopes of reducing the number of deaths, the Border Patrol created search-and-rescue teams. It also produces television spots that air on Mexican TV, featuring pop stars warning of the desert's killing power and of the danger of trusting the smugglers, known as coyotes. 
The 21 young men claimed their coyotes had abandoned them, but the agents suspected that one of them, a wiry youngster from Chiapas, might have been the smuggler upon finding $345 in his wallet. The suspicion didn't last long -- tucked into a Manila folder in his backpack the agents found a notarized copy of his junior high diploma. "My mom thought it might help me get a better job," he said sheepishly.
Advocates for the immigrants often blame the Border Patrol's strategy for the deaths in the desert, but that seems a narrow diagnosis. It isn't the patrol's fault that there are ample rewards awaiting those who make it through their increasingly challenging obstacle course. 
Mr. BeMiller is not one to be fazed by the seeming futility of trying to seal the border. There are millions who have succeeded in eluding the Border Patrol, but 826 migrants were arrested in the Tucson sector alone on the day I spent with him. 
"It's the thrill of the hunt, without the kill," he said of his job. Most agents felt reinvigorated in the aftermath of Sept. 11, he added. "It was a powerful reminder of why we need to make sure we know who is in this country, and for what purpose." 
As one of the detained Mexicans awaited the transport bus that would take him to the detention center and then back to Mexico, he also alluded to Sept. 11. Referring to the potential for a greatly expanded temporary visa program, he said, "Everything was looking up until those planes slammed into the twin towers." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (91%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); DESERTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (86%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); EVIDENCE (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); DEPORTATION (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (69%); AMNESTY (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (65%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (93%) ARIZONA, USA (93%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



422 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: THE RACE FOR GOVERNOR: THE DEBATE; 
Pataki Joins Crowded Field In First Debate

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki stood behind his record over two terms yesterday during a debate with six other candidates for governor that offered a range of solutions to New York State's ills -- from cutting taxes to regulating marijuana -- but little opportunity to scrutinize them.
 Mr. Pataki, in his first-ever debate as a candidate for governor, did not specify what he planned for a third term beyond saying, "We are not going to raise taxes next year" to close a budget deficit that may swell to up to $7 billion. 
 The governor, a Republican, had insisted that the minor-party candidates be allowed to participate; he ended up sitting between the Right to Life and Marijuana Reform candidates. During the 90-minute forum, candidates were generally permitted to make one-minute responses. That meant each candidate had only 8 to 10 minutes of talking time, including Mr. Pataki's Democratic chief opponent, H. Carl McCall, who was limited to 10 minutes to rebut the governor's record and set out his own agenda. 
It also meant that with each candidate promoting his own sometimes quirky agenda, talk veered at times from substance to silliness.
They discussed whether to cut taxes or raise them, what to do with the World Trade Center site, and whether a nuclear plant near New York City should be closed.
But the forum also afforded obscure candidates like Thomas K. Leighton, of the Marijuana Reform Party, an opportunity to urge the state to regulate the marijuana market, and allowed Gerard J. Cronin, the Right to Life candidate and a teacher, to turn to the camera and greet his students not once but twice.
Scott Jeffrey, the Libertarian candidate, even had a moment of confession when he responded to a comment by Mr. Leighton that marijuana users would not mind being taxed by the state if the drug were legalized. "Well, I am a pot smoker who does not want to pay more taxes," Mr. Jeffrey said, drawing a giggle or two from some of the candidates.
Mr. Jeffrey had another, more serious moment of candor as he answered why he and the other third-party candidates were in the race, beyond sending a message. He admitted to viewers, "I'm not expecting to be elected," but urged people to vote for him anyway so his party could get the 50,000 votes needed under state law to keep its line on state ballots for the next four years.
The session, sponsored by WABC-TV and The Daily News and held at the Midtown studio used by the morning show "Live With Regis and Kelly," was the first time since 1990 that a sitting governor participated in such a forum with a major party rival.
Mr. Pataki has refused to debate unless all the candidates were invited, a turnabout from 1994 when he refused to debate Gov. Mario M. Cuomo because Mr. Cuomo insisted the third-party candidates be there as well.
Mr. Pataki now says he will not debate Mr. McCall, the state comptroller, one on one.
All the candidates, who were debating for the first time, are set to meet again on Sunday in Syracuse.
Critics suggest Mr. Pataki insisted on this format to allow only the briefest of opportunities for partisan attacks, and to minimize attention on his main rivals, Mr. McCall and Tom Golisano, the self-financed billionaire and Independence candidate.
The only candidate not present was Andrew M. Cuomo, who had won the Liberal Party nomination but quit his bid for the Democratic nomination a week before the Sept. 10 primary. Mr. Cuomo remains on the ballot on the Liberal line but has said he will not campaign.
Although viewers did not hear Mr. Pataki articulate his plans for a third term, the governor used the word "proud" 12 times when describing what he thought of his record on issues like crime, education and transportation.
He did offer views not often stated publicly. He answered yes when asked whether the state should ban smoking in public spaces and said that he would consider advocating the shutdown of the Indian Point nuclear plant 35 miles north of New York City if the evidence of its danger to public safety was credible. He promised to fight for term limits if elected for a third time.
Mr. Pataki agreed that reforms were needed to address the ways state government does business, in which it is often said that "three men in a room" -- the governor, the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver -- make key decisions on a budget that is chronically late.
Mr. Pataki said he would support mandating conference committees to reconcile differing versions of the budget passed by the Senate and Assembly.
Mr. Golisano said Mr. Bruno had shown him "the room" on a visit to Albany. "It's about 10 by 12," Mr. Golisano said. "It's got a table in it with four chairs and two windows. I said, 'This is the way we run our state government?' "
Mr. McCall, in turn, promised: "I'm going to seal that room so it'll never be used again. We've got to open up the process. It's dysfunctional. In fact, we've run out of adjectives to describe how bad it is."
All the candidates but one, Stanley Aronowitz of the Green Party, said they would either cut taxes or avoid raising them. Mr. Aronowitz suggested wealthy people should be taxed more.
"My plan would say tax those who are most able to pay and tax fairly and spend wisely so we meet the needs of our people," he said. "Unless we have new taxes, there's absolutely no way we're going to close the budget gap."
To ease the tax burden, Mr. Leighton suggested the state allow farmers to grow hemp for industrial purposes. "This would not only save the family farm and preserve valuable farmland for the future, but it will also provide raw materials to revitalize manufacturing industries in clothing, textiles, paper products," he said. "And these new industries would affect the economies very directly. It would also help the garment workers down in New York City."
Mr. Aronowitz was also one of two candidates -- the other being Mr. Leighton -- who supported reinstating a commuter tax that until its repeal in 1999 imposed an assessment on people who worked in New York City but lived in the suburbs.
All the candidates said they would prefer not to raise subway and bus fares but none would rule it out.
Mr. Pataki said he would work to increase revenue by attracting more riders and supporting the proposed merger of Metro-North and the Long Island Rail Road.
Regarding the trade center site, most of the candidates said a combination of a memorial with new commercial or residential space would be appropriate.
But Mr. Leighton said he believed the whole site "should be a totally open green space with a suitable memorial in the center," while Mr. Jeffrey said, "What would I know about that?"
Mr. Pataki noted that Mr. McCall had originally insisted all the candidates be present and went on to say, "I think allowing this free discussion, allowing this open involvement by everyone who the voters have the option to vote for on Nov. 5 is the appropriate course to take."
Mr. McCall said that a debate with all the candidates should be supplemented with one "where we have the candidates who have the most likely opportunity to get elected."
He added, "And I think that kind of debate would be a little more instructive and a little more helpful to the public." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CANNABIS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (77%); TAX LAW (77%); BUDGETS (77%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: REGIS PHILBIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



423 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Rumsfeld War Guidelines Call for Early Action
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, in a personal set of guidelines for committing forces to combat, wrote that leaders must quickly judge when diplomacy has failed, then "act forcefully, early, during the pre-crisis period" to foil an attack on the nation. A1

Bali Death Toll Rises
The death toll in the car bombing in Bali, Indonesia, climbed to at least 184, including at least 2 Americans. A dozen of the 300 injured survivors were in critical condition and another 30 bodies were believed to be buried in the rubble. The attacks were being attributed to Indonesian terrorists, possibly linked to Al Qaeda or other Islamic extremists. A1

Fifteen Australians have been confirmed dead in the bombings. A10

U.S. Criticism for Israel
The Bush administration has criticized Israel again for killing Palestinian civilians during Israeli military operations and for maintaining restrictions on movement in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. A7

Ivory Coast Rebel Advance
Rebels captured the city of Daloa in the Ivory Coast, dealing a blow to the government as peace envoys worked to negotiate an end to the fighting. Residents said rebels told them they planned to continue south toward the president's home village. A6

Belfast Weathering Setback
Although Britain is expected to suspend the Northern Ireland Assembly, in the worst impasse in the province's four-year-old peace agreement, the overall feeling in the city is more one of frustration than of fear of returning to the violence of the past. A1

Serbian Election Invalid
More than half the Serbian electorate did not vote in the presidential election, making the result invalid. A power struggle between rival politicians has brought reforms to a standstill and alienated voters desperate for living standards to improve. A3

Support for Afghan Leaders
The Afghan government won an endorsement from international donors for its budget and development plan to benefit Afghanistan, positioning it well to win badly needed long-term assistance. A8

NATIONAL A12-13, 15-17

Money Matters Are Vital In the Elections Ahead
Incumbents or their chosen successors in this year's elections are being held responsible for the stalled economy and kept on the defensive about its consequences. The South Carolina governor's race is one of several extremely competitive contests shadowed by voters' worries about money and jobs. A1

Early Voting Begins
More than 15 percent of the vote this year might be cast before Election Day as voters take advantage of early voting procedures that have swept across states and counties over the last 15 years. The phenomenon is recasting the way campaigns are being conducted in the nation. A1

Investigation's Challenges
The search for the Washington-area suburban sniper has turned into an unprecedented, profoundly difficult and deeply frustrating manhunt. A1

The investigation's leaders have decided to hold fewer news conferences amid concern that the gunman might be taking cues from them. A15

Clemency in Illinois
The national debate over the death penalty returns to the stage in Illinois with an unprecedented set of clemency hearings for nearly all 158 prisoners on the state's death row scheduled to begin tomorrow. A12

A Record Meat Recall
Wampler Foods recalled all cooked deli products made since May at a plant in Franconia, Pa., and halted production because the meat might be contaminated with Listeria monocytogenes bacteria, the authorities said. A12

Health Aid Goes Unused
Large amounts of federal money intended to provide health insurance to children are going unused, federal officials say, even though 8.5 million children are uninsured. A17

Government Accounting Woes
Auditors studying the financial records of federal government departments find many of them so disorganized that the agencies cannot account for tens of billions of dollars. When many agencies realize that they have made major accounting errors they simply enter multibillion-dollar balance adjustments, writing off the money. A17

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

7 Candidates for Governor Debate Range of Issues
Gov. George E. Pataki stood behind his two-term record during a debate in which he and six other candidates for governor offered a variety of solutions to the state's ills, from cutting taxes to regulating marijuana. B1

Mayor Takes the Bronx Instead
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, after being rebuffed by Manhattan's Columbus Day Parade organizers, marched in a Bronx parade. B3

More People Rolling Cigarettes
As state and local governments pile new taxes on maunfactured cigarettes in efforts to discourage smoking and to increase revenue, more people are rolling their own. B1

Second U.N. Security Breach
United Nations security was breached for the second time in 10 days when two Long Island men jumped over a fence -- apparently to take each other's photographs -- the authorities said. B2

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

Anaheim in World Series
The Angels beat the Minnesota Twins, 13-5, in Game 5 of the American League Championship Series, earning their first trip to the World Series. D1

San Francisco Takes 3-1 Lead
The Giants beat the St. Louis Cardinals, 4-3, in Game 4 of the National League Championship Series. D2

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Hope for Cancer Vaccine
A cancer vaccine virtually eliminated tumors in 2 of 28 patients with advanced melanoma according to the results of a trial in Italy. C7

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES B7

Stephen E. Ambrose
The military historian, whose books recounting the feats of American soldiers during World War II fueled a national fascination, was 66. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

AOL Estimates Exceeded Facts
AOL Time Warner's top executives rejected arguments from its chief financial officer that they should scale back their ambitious promises to Wall Street, senior executives said. C1

Publisher Explores Past
The Von Holtzbrinck Group, the German conglomerate that owns gilded names in American publishing, has disclosed that it has been exhuming its Nazi-era past. C1

Overhaul of 'The Early Show'
CBS is expected to announce a new format for "The Early Show," the morning program that started with promise three years ago but did not meet advertiser expectations. C5

ESPN.com to Offer Video Clips
The sports Web site has developed a way to put video clips on its home page and plans to introduce a free video-clip service to high-speed Internet users in the next few weeks. C2

Biography Series Deal Seen
Atlas Books and HarperCollins Publishers are in talks to revive minibiographies that married famous authors with famous subjects, people close to the negotiations said. C9

Subsidy May Be Withdrawn
TXU is poised to withdraw a promised $700 million lifeline to its troubled European subsidiary, people close to the company said. C2

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Budget illusions; the need for pediatric drug tests; retreat on clean air; Andres Martinez on policing the border.

Column: William Safire.

Bridge E6
TV Listings E9
Crossword E8
Weather A14
Metro Diary B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); AL-QAEDA (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); BUDGETS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); POLITICS (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); LIVING STANDARDS (67%); RELIGION (54%); GOVERNORS (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (79%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



424 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Classified; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
ROSOW, JEROME M.

 BODY:
 ROSOW-Jerome M. 82, died October 11, 2002, following heart surgery. Chairman and founder of Work in America Institute in Scarsdale. He committed his life to improving the work lives of all Americans and the productivity of the U.S. economy. 
Assistant Secretary of Labor 1969-1971. Chair, President's Advisory Committee on Federal Pay 1971-1984. Career in employee relations for Exxon for 24 years in Caracas, London, and New York. President, Industrial Relations Research Association 1979. Director, U.S. Business and Advisory Committee of OECD, Paris. Chairman, European Employee Relations Council. Advisor to the ILO, Geneva. Author on teamwork, labormanagement relations, training, health care, and productivity improvement. A native of Chicago and graduate of the University of Chicago. His greatest joy was his family: Devoted husband and partner of Raye Levin Rosow, father of Michael and Joel, grandfather of Lori, Alison, Chad, and Kyra Rosow and Nick Stableski. A visionary, a patriarch, a loving, giving and supportive man. He is sadly missed. Contributions to Work in America Institute or UJA. Services Monday, 11:00 AM, Ballard-Durand, White Plains. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MEN (76%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%) 

ORGANIZATION: WORK IN AMERICA INSTITUTE (91%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS ASSOCIATION (57%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%)

PERSON: ROSOW, JEROME M. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (86%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



425 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: White House Keeps a Grip On Its News 

BYLINE:  By JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
When he stands before the blue curtain of the White House press briefing area, Ari Fleischer, President Bush's press secretary, often seems downright chummy with reporters as they quiz him about the news of the day.
 But in the privacy of his well-ordered office, he is not always so complimentary. 
 "There can be a tendency," he said in an interview, "of reporters kind of peacocking in front of each other to show each other and their editors, 'I'm the one, I can ask the same question a different way for the 18th time to get the press secretary to say something different.' "
And the same goes for reporters, who often put on a cordial face during Mr. Fleischer's briefings but, privately, are often fuming. 
"If the National Hurricane Center were as stingy with its information, there would be thousands dead," John Roberts, the senior CBS News White House correspondent, deadpanned in his West Wing broadcast booth the other day.
Mr. Roberts may have been joking, but the sentiment was real. "Ari has the uncanny ability to suck information out of a room," he added.
Tensions have escalated far beyond the inevitable grousing between press secretaries and journalists, who said they could not remember a White House that was more grudging or less forthcoming in informing the press. Complaints from the White House press corps ranged from the paucity of presidential press conferences to fewer briefings from administration policy experts to instances where they believe they have been frozen out by White House officials when they ask questions considered out of bounds.
The White House in turn says these complaints are the result of its strict adherence to its own message, and a break from the tradition of gossip-mongering in the press.
Certainly, there have been strains between reporters and the press secretary in previous White Houses, and every administration has tried to prevent leaks and control spin. 
Media relations during the Reagan White House had so soured that they prompted a book, "On Bended Knee: The Press and the Reagan Presidency," by Mark Hertsgaard, an author and commentator. The first Bush White House faced complaints about lack of press access during the Persian Gulf war. And the Clinton White House was so aggressive about influencing reporters that it even added a lawyer, Lanny Davis, to its press operation.
But complaints about White House secrecy have reached new levels. White House reporters say they have been given very limited information about the cost, the length, and the risk of any military action in Iraq. They also contend that after Sept. 11, many more policy and governmental decisions are considered off limits for questions because of national security.
Reporters said they have seen some cracks in the fortress recently, as inside information about rifts within the administration over its plans for Iraq has buzzed through their phone lines and into their stories. Even so, reporters still are far from satisfied.
"We have a gap between information the public wants to know and information the White House has provided," said Bob Deans, the Cox Newspapers White House correspondent and the president of the White House Correspondents' Association.
Laurence McQuillan, a veteran White House correspondent for USA Today, said, "From a reporter's standpoint, they make the Clinton White House seem like a sieve that was gushing information."
"In this administration, the controls on information are tighter than in any other one I have covered," said Bill Plante, a CBS News White House correspondent, who has reported on the presidency since 1980.
Reporters also protest that they get little opportunity to directly quiz the president. Invitations to peek in on meetings between the president and foreign leaders, they say, do not come as often as they did in the past. Where Mr. Clinton had given 73 news conferences at this point in his presidency -- most jointly with foreign leaders and other officials -- Mr. Bush has given 36, said Martha Joynt Kumar, a professor at Towson University who tracks the White House communications operation. George Herbert Walker Bush had given 61 in his first 21 months.
White House officials are proud of the discipline that reporters grouse about, and say they have such a relatively low leak factor because the president does not tolerate them, and officials have no interest in them. Still, Mr. Fleischer contends that reporters get as much information as needs to be available at the appropriate time, and have ample opportunity to ask questions at various presidential photo opportunities, pool events and appearances with foreign leaders, which the White House puts at over 100.
"The press has plenty of access," Mr. Fleischer said. "I don't think it's a matter of withholding information -- we withhold gossip."
With talk of war increasing, the White House press briefing room has become more confrontational. There, a fierce joust plays out day after day, as members of the White House press corps devise ways to draw Mr. Fleischer out in greater detail on the administration's case against Saddam Hussein -- and Mr. Fleischer refuses to venture beyond his message of the day, often carried live on cable news.
For many reporters and producers, the briefings have become an exercise in frustration, a White House-produced television program in which they say they feel like unamused straight men, there to set up policy punchlines for Mr. Fleischer.
"I think Ari goes into the briefing with a message that he intends to deliver," said Campbell Brown, an NBC News White House correspondent, "and what questions are asked is almost irrelevant."
Mr. Fleischer often does seem to stick to practiced catch phrases. Early this month, as the administration worked hard for stiffer United Nations weapons inspections terms, Mr. Fleischer warned six times that Mr. Hussein would play "cat-and-mouse games." During the same briefing, he repeated six times that the president would not accept a congressional war resolution that "ties his hands."
Mr. Fleischer said it was his policy to share new information only when the administration is ready to do so. "Why do they have to have everything spoon-fed ahead of time?" he asked.
Certain bits of information, he said, are withheld for good reason when the president is weighing action in Iraq on one front and considering homeland defense on the other. He said, for instance, that it was not in the administration's interests to divulge how far it was willing to compromise in negotiating over the congressional war resolution.
Mr. Fleischer expressed exasperation at what he considered to be a silly -- and ultimately futile -- exercise by reporters to prod him to say something controversial.
"Reporters who are polite, who gather their information with honey instead of vinegar, are going to get farther," he said. "I think the days of the shouting, the screaming, cynical approach have really ended."
In what he says is a move to bring decorum to the briefing room, and keep reporters from screaming over one another, Mr. Fleischer has a system of methodically calling on reporters row by row. This way, he says, everybody gets a chance to ask a question. 
But reporters see something else at play: a strategy to keep questioning from building momentum on a single issue. Each reporter is working a different agenda, and often two sitting side by side will be working on two completely different stories.
There are those who everybody in the room knows will be off-topic, like Raghubir Goyal, a reporter for India Globe, who sometimes sits in one of the front rows when there is a vacancy. He is primarily interested in the tensions between India and Pakistan. The other reporters have taken to calling him "Goyal the foil," contending that Mr. Fleischer, like previous press secretaries, relies on him to break up tense moments.
A few journalists here also complained that phone calls went unreturned for long periods after they either asked tough questions in briefings or produced stories that officials did not like.
In the best-known example, Bennett Roth, a reporter for the Houston Chronicle, after asking a question about the president's daughters, was warned by Mr. Fleischer that it had been "noted in the building."
"It was probably an imprecise way of saying 'the president doesn't appreciate your invasion of his privacy,' " Mr. Fleischer said, adding there were no consequences otherwise, and never are. "There's a tendency by reporters to wildly exaggerate the trauma they go through so they have better excuses for their editors for why they don't have a story."
Even Mr. Fleischer's Democratic predecessors said the strategy of limiting information to the press was effective. While he said he was more accommodating to reporters, Michael D. McCurry, a press secretary to President Bill Clinton, said he believed Mr. Fleischer may have found a more successful approach: "To be very, very disciplined and treat the press like caged animals and only feed them on a regular schedule."
As far as Mr. Fleischer is concerned, the press will never be satisfied.
"I think there is a difference between the press's demand for information and the public's demand for information," he said. "Sometimes I think the press won't be satisfied until there's Oval Cam, and people can watch the president 24 hours a day in the Oval Office."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The White House press secretary, Ari Fleischer, says reporters get as much news as needs to be available at the appropriate time. Reporters say the news flow is less than under any other recent administration. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. C10) Chart: "A Press Secretary's Daily Routine"A morning in the life of Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, based on the events of Thursday, Oct. 3. 5 a.m. -- Ari Fleischer wakes up, begins reading morning papers.7:15 a.m. -- Mr. Fleischer meets with deputies to go over the news coverage of the previous day and map out opportunities or problems in the afternoon ahead. One hitch: USA Today has quoted Secretary of State Colin L. Powell as suggesting Saddam Hussein can stay in power if he disarms. It has raised questions about whether his remarks are a shift from the administration's "regime change" policy.7:30 a.m. -- Mr. Fleischer attends a meeting with White House senior staff, including Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, and Andrew H. Card Jr., the chief of staff.9:45 a.m. -- Mr. Fleischer holds White House "press gaggle," the regular, brief, off-camera session at which he reads the presidential schedule and fields some questions. One reporter asks for a response to recent criticisms from Al Gore about the economy. "I don't know that any answer is necessary or rebuttal is necessary," he says. "Nobody paid a lot of attention to what the former vice president said."10:15 a.m. -- He monitors cable news to see if any news networks bump coverage of Hurricane Lili for the president's speech on homeland security -- none do -- then meets with the president.12:15 p.m. -- Mr. Fleischer meets with deputies to strategize for the upcoming briefing. He resolves to emphasize that Iraqi disarmament has always been a vitally important issue to the president and plans to call the implication in USA Today that Mr. Powell is changing policy "a stretch." He resolves not to engage in further questions about Al Gore. "People are looking for a political fight," he says to his staff, "not to cover the substance of the United States economy."12:30 p.m. -- Mr. Fleischer holds the afternoon press briefing. In response to questions about whether the White House is pursu-ing disarmament or regime change in Iraq, Mr. Fleischer says, "The president believes both are important and they are both statements of American policy." He says it is "a stretch" to say Mr. Powell really believes Mr. Hussein will disarm to the point where he could stay in power. He declines to directly address Mr. Gore's comments. "I addressed this earlier," he says.(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); HURRICANES (68%); DESERT STORM (64%) NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); AL GORE (88%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); JOHN ROBERTS (66%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



426 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: States Forfeit Unspent U.S. Money for Child Health Insurance 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13 

 BODY:
Large amounts of federal money intended to provide health insurance to children are going unused, federal officials say, even though 8.5 million children are uninsured.
 On Oct. 1, states lost $1.2 billion that had been appropriated by Congress to provide health coverage for low-income children. The money, unclaimed after four years, reverted to the Treasury and can now be used for other purposes -- anything, including law enforcement, military pay, farm subsidies or the fight against terrorism. 
 Thomas A. Scully, administrator of the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said he hoped that Congress would pass legislation to restore the money to the Children's Health Insurance Program. 
"States should find some way to use that money to cover the uninsured," Mr. Scully said. "If you don't use it, you lose it."
President Bush foresaw the problem. In his budget, issued in February, he asked Congress to let states keep the money until 2006. Several senators have introduced bills to extend the deadline for use of the money, while redirecting some of it to states most likely to spend it.
Congress has not taken action on any of the proposals, even though lawmakers often lament that millions of children are uninsured according to the Census Bureau.
State officials, struggling with severe budget problems, are pleading with Congress to extend the deadline for them to use the federal money.
Gov. Frank L. O'Bannon of Indiana, a Democrat, said he and other governors feared that "if this money is lost, the federal government's growing budget deficit will make it difficult to recover it at a later date."
Jason Cooke, director of the Children's Health Insurance Program in Texas, which provides coverage for 510,000 youngsters, said: "It would be most unfortunate if the money stays in the federal Treasury. There is still lots of unmet need."
The Bush administration estimates that states will lose $1.6 billion more next year if Congress takes no action, in addition to the $1.2 billion lost in the current year. 
The recession has increased the number of people without insurance and cut revenue collections in most states, which need every dollar of federal aid they can find.
The Children's Health Insurance Program, created in 1997 with bipartisan support, has been extremely popular and is widely viewed as a success. More than four million youngsters are enrolled. Many come from working families with incomes too high to qualify for Medicaid, but too low to afford private health insurance.
The Bush administration and advocates for children estimate that enrollment in the child health program will drop by 600,000 if Congress does nothing to restore federal money.
Twenty-five states forfeited money at the beginning of this month. New York lost more than any other state, $397 million, about one-third of the total.
Gov. George E. Pataki of New York, a Republican, has strongly supported the program, which serves more than 500,000 children in the state. New York spent all its initial allotments and therefore received unspent money from other states in each of the last two years, but New York could not spend it all.
Indiana and North Carolina each lost $100 million of federal money on Oct. 1. South Carolina lost nearly $90 million. Arkansas lost $44 million, and Washington State lost $35 million.
While the purpose of the program is straightforward, the bookkeeping is complex. States have three years to use the money they receive for a particular year. If a state fails to use its full allotment in the three-year period, the federal government redistributes some of the unused money to other states that spent all the money they got. Any money that remains unused must eventually be returned to the Treasury.
The money that reverted to the Treasury on Oct. 1 was originally earmarked for 1998 and 1999. 
Why does money remain unspent? In many states, the program got off to a slow start.
"States could not spend the money fast enough," said Mr. Cooke, the director of the Texas program.
Texas received an allotment of $502.8 million for the fiscal year 2000, Mr. Cooke said, but $285 million remains unspent and would, under current law, be redistributed to other states.
Jana L. Thomas, the program director in Georgia, said her state received more money than it could use in the early years and would have less than it needs in the next few years. That kind of mismatch is common.
Several members of Congress have tried to restore money for the children's health program, but they have been stymied by disagreements over how to divide the money among various states.
President Bush's proposal would allow states to keep the money they received for 1998, 1999 and 2000. Senators John D. Rockefeller IV, Democrat of West Virginia, and Lincoln Chafee, Republican of Rhode Island, want to redirect a large share of the unused money to states with greater needs.
Edwin C. Park, a policy analyst at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research institute, said the president's proposal "leaves large sums in states that cannot use them, rather than redistributing money to other states that will need it to avert sharp cutbacks in their programs."
Governor Pataki placed the onus on Congress, particularly the New York senators, Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton, both Democrats.
Robert R. Hinckley, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki, said, "We really expect our senators to ensure that New York's children are not left behind."
Mrs. Clinton said it was imperative for Congress to act this year. But she added, "I am very concerned that the administration's proposal would tie up money in states that can't spend it, while children in other states like New York, where we spend our full allotment, will lose coverage for lack of funds." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (92%); CHILDREN (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); ASSET FORFEITURE (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); MEDICAID (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (56%); TERRORISM (56%); CENSUS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



427 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: At Cuba Conference, Old Foes Exchange Notes on 1962 Missile Crisis 

BYLINE:  By DAVID GONZALEZ

DATELINE: SAN CRISTOBAL, Cuba, Oct. 13 

 BODY:
Dino Brugioni had spent decades poring over every detail from the spy plane photographs of Soviet missiles whose discovery here, 40 years ago this weekend, brought the superpowers to the brink of nuclear holocaust. But today the former Central Intelligence Agency officer learned a few things that had eluded even his careful eye, thanks to none other than Gen. Anatoly Gribkov, who was the Soviet officer who supervised the construction of missile bases in Cuba in 1962.
 More like old colleagues than former adversaries, the two men stood this morning in front of an abandoned bunker, discussing roads, cables and missile locations. Their exchanges contained more shop talk than sharp words. 
 "I got a little more detail than I could see," said Mr. Brugioni, who during the Cuban missile crisis had prepared briefings based on spy plane photos. "I'm glad I came to talk with my Russian and Cuban counterparts. It's been 40 years. I've forgiven." 
This weekend, presidential advisers and military officers from all sides who took part in the cold war's tensest episode gathered in Cuba to discuss issues arising from those 13 days, including intelligence failures and independent arms inspections.
Those themes have taken on special resonance at a time when United States officials are considering the possibility of pre-emptive action against Saddam Hussein to ensure that Iraq does not develop or use weapons of mass destruction.
Participants at the conference -- organized by the Cuban government and the National Security Archive, an American research group that obtained recently declassified American, Soviet and Cuban documents -- did not explicitly draw comparisons. But they did say President John F. Kennedy's peaceful resolution of the crisis held a powerful lesson.
"I hope that 10 years from now the Cuban missile crisis will be looked upon as a learning period for the world in understanding the risk to the human race in continuing huge nuclear forces," Robert S. McNamara, who was defense secretary at the time, said in an interview on Friday. "What happened in Cuba is very commonplace. Military operations are much more complex than civilian ones. The variables are greater."
Mr. McNamara, who headed the American delegation at the conference, said recent examples of civilian and "friendly fire" casualties in Afghanistan underscored the hazards of warfare, even when it is confined to conventional weapons.
"There isn't any learning period with nuclear weapons," he said. "You make one mistake and you destroy nations." 
Fidel Castro, the Cuban president, attended most of the closed-door sessions in Havana and offered long commentaries. According to those present at a meeting on Friday, Mr. Castro questioned a retired Soviet military officer at length about the size of the Soviet nuclear arsenal compared with that of the United States and the numbers and location of warheads on the island.
"Castro didn't know," said Thomas Blanton, the National Security Archive's executive director. "But he said that they had a sense that the Soviet Union was first with Sputnik, Yuri A. Gagarin and having the largest bomb." He added that "they assumed the Soviet Union was at least equal" to the United States militarily.
The Americans viewed the Soviet missiles, evidence of which Mr. Kennedy received on Oct. 16, 1962, as a provocation. But Cuban officials placed the crisis in the context of the threat of an American military invasion, mindful of the abortive Bay of Pigs invasion by Cuban exiles in 1961. They had also worried about Cuban exiles backed by the United States in the destabilization campaign known as Operation Mongoose.
"The United States had already developed subversive activities including assassination plans against the leaders of the revolution," said Esteban Morales, a researcher at the University of Havana.
Theodore C. Sorensen, Mr. Kennedy's counsel and chief speechwriter, said Mr. Kennedy had had no intention of staging an American invasion of Cuba. Rather, the goal was to isolate Cuba and prevent it from becoming a Soviet military outpost.
Nonetheless, at the conference Mr. Sorensen apologized to the Cubans for the sabotage campaign. "I represent nobody but myself," he said. "I just thought an apology was due."
Mr. Kennedy's military advisers were urging him to prepare for an invasion, however, once the United States had responded to the detection of the missiles by establishing a naval and air blockade to prevent Soviet ships from reaching Cuba. On Oct. 27, according to documents released at the conference, events were spinning out of control. An American surveillance plane was shot down over Cuba, another wandered into Soviet airspace, and an American destroyer was dropping depth charges to force to the surface a Soviet submarine that had approached the American blockade line.
The commander of the Soviet submarine, which had a nuclear-tipped torpedo, "summoned the officer who was assigned to the nuclear torpedo and ordered him to assemble it to battle readiness," according to a Soviet document made available at the conference.
"Maybe the war has already started up there, while we are doing somersaults here," the commander was quoted as saying. "We're going to blast them now! We will die, but we will sink them all. We will not disgrace our navy!"
According to the document, the Soviet commander relented after conferring with other officers.
While the Americans were able to get the Soviets to agree on Oct. 28 to withdraw the missiles from Cuba, they were unable to get the Soviets to persuade the Cubans to allow inspections. 
Soviet documents portray Mr. Castro as having been angered by the Soviet suggestion of inspections as infringing on Cuba's sovereignty.
"Recent events have considerably influenced the moral spirit of our people," Mr. Castro was quoted as saying to Anastas I. Mikoyan, the Soviet first deputy prime minister, who was in Havana in early November 1962. "They were regarded as a retreat at the very moment when every nerve of our country had been strained."
Mr. Mikoyan responded that developments were moving so rapidly that a decision had to be made quickly.
"At the moment the main objective consisted of preventing an attack," the envoy wrote in the document. "We thought the Cuban comrades would understand us."
But a Nov. 16 letter to Mr. Mikoyan from Nikita S. Khrushchev, the Soviet leader, revealed Soviet impatience with the Cubans' rejection of inspections and their pledge to shoot down American spy planes.
"Cuba, which now does not even want to consult with us, wants to practically drag us behind it by a leash, and wants to pull us into a war with the Americans by its actions," Mr. Khrushchev wrote. "We cannot and will not agree to this."
Cuba never did allow inspections, but by Nov. 20, the United States lifted its naval blockade. 
"In a sense, that is the message of this entire conference," Mr. Sorensen said in an interview. "It is very clear that the world was on the brink of a nuclear war, so close. Yet it was also very clear that not one of the three governments involved wanted a war."
In April 1963, Mr. Castro traveled to the Soviet Union and was promised economic and security assistance, which continued to flow until the Soviet Union's collapse in the early 1990's.
Tucked among documents in the briefing books prepared for the conference is a recounting of a conversation between Mr. Mikoyan and Ernesto Guevara, a hero of the Cuban revolution who was known as Che and a confidante of Mr. Castro.
"We will always be with you despite all the difficulties," Mr. Mikoyan told Mr. Guevara.
"To the last day?" Mr. Guevara asked.
"Yes, let our enemies die," Mr. Mikoyan replied. "We must live and live. Live like Communists. We are convinced of our victory."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A former nuclear warhead bunker at a base in San Cristobal, Cuba. The 1962 missile crisis brought the world to the brink of nuclear war.; Dino Brugioni, left, a former C.I.A. analyst of 1962 spy plane photos, and Gen. Anatoly Gribkov, who supervised the building of missile bases in Cuba, discussing yesterday whether one photo showed a missile site. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (90%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (90%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); COLD WAR (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); INTERVIEWS (68%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); ISLANDS & REEFS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); FIDEL CASTRO (75%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



428 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: White House Letter; 
They Serve the President by Always Staying a Few Steps Ahead of Him

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

 BODY:
At 8:30 yesterday morning in Michigan, a Navy officer responsible for food security for President Bush was already knocking on the hotel room door of Therese Burch, the White House official in charge of preparations for the president's trip to Dearborn today. Mr. Bush actually had no plans to eat the breast of chicken at tonight's political fund-raiser at the Ritz-Carlton (he plans to dine on the way home on Air Force One), but the officer needed to know how to get to the hotel kitchen to oversee the presidential dinner plate just in case Mr. Bush got a spontaneous hunger pang. 
 It was only one meeting of dozens about concerns large and small that Ms. Burch, 42, has had during her last six days in Michigan in charge of the small army of people preparing for Mr. Bush's four-hour trip. Meanwhile, two other presidential advance teams were at work yesterday in Daytona Beach, Fla., and Atlanta, where Mr. Bush will travel on Thursday and Friday. Later in the week, more teams will assemble in Illinois and Minnesota. By the end of the week, there will be teams in the Northeast and in Mexico, where the president will travel for an economic conference at the end of the month. 
 In all, seven advance teams will be spread across the nation (and the world) this week -- a striking reflection of Mr. Bush's nonstop, largely political travel in these final weeks before the midterm elections. Democratic officials complain regularly that taxpayers, not the Republican Party, are financing too much of the president's political travel, but their complaints only strike at what can be seen on the surface. Underneath the president's very public and precisely run political trips is an elaborate infrastructure that few people know.
"Sometimes we feel like the duck gliding smoothly on the water, but he's paddling furiously underneath," said Brian Montgomery, the director of presidential advance.
Mr. Montgomery, who worked in the Bush I presidential advance office and then directed the advance team for Mr. Bush's 2000 presidential campaign, has a staff of only 16 on the White House payroll. He relies heavily on a volunteer army of nearly 200 people across the country as well as local campaign aides and Republican Party officials. As the president's travel has become more political closer to the election, Mr. Montgomery said, he is leaning more on party workers and less on government employees to help him move a traveling circus of 100 staff members, security officers and reporters around the country. 
"Well, I generally don't use the word circus," Mr. Montgomery said.
Whatever one wants to call it, the traveling extravaganza is paid for under a formula that dates from at least the Reagan administration, whereby the cost of presidential travel is divided between the party and the taxpayers, depending on how much official business -- a policy speech -- and politicking -- a fund-raiser -- occurs on each trip. (Members of the news media pay their own way.) Without fail, the party out of power always says that the party in power does not pay enough for the trips. Since the president is the president wherever he may land, there are in fact many built-in financial advantages for the occupant of the White House. Taxpayers always pay for the use of Air Force One, presidential security and communications, and people like Mr. Montgomery and Ms. Burch, who are employed by the government. 
Ms. Burch, who is coming to the highlight of her six days in Detroit, has been a busy woman. Although she says she does not get involved in political activity on the president's trips -- for example, she was not in charge of issuing tickets to the fund-raiser tonight for the state party and Thaddeus McCotter, a Republican candidate for the House -- she is nonetheless the person who is overseeing the trip, including all the political volunteers. Early on Saturday, she met with 25 people in a Ritz-Carlton conference room for a walk-through, complete with diagrams from an overhead projector, of every moment of Mr. Bush's four hours in the state. Later in the day, she made sure the president's armored limousine had arrived by cargo plane from Washington.
By midafternoon yesterday, she was at a dress rehearsal of the airport rally that Mr. Bush will attend before the fund-raiser, where a local high school band practiced "Stars and Stripes Forever." Ms. Burch also met with the drivers for Mr. Bush's motorcade, making sure to brief them on the route and admonishing them to fill their tanks and never to leave their cars. Late yesterday, Ms. Burch was watching carefully as workers hung the welcome sign for the president at the Oakland County International Airport. 
This morning she is to watch a rehearsal with the singer who is to belt out the national anthem for Mr. Bush.
"Basically I work 24 hours a day," Ms. Burch said. Tonight, she will return to Washington and then leave first thing tomorrow morning for Pennsylvania, for another six-day advance trip for the president.
"This is just a very busy month," Ms. Burch said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); FUNDRAISING (71%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



429 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1634 words

HEADLINE: Economy Lurks Over the Races For Governor 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: NORTH CHARLESTON, S.C., Oct. 10 

 BODY:
Gov. Jim Hodges positively glowed the other day as he and BMW executives announced a $400 million investment in an auto production line near Greenville, where 400 more workers will soon be hired to turn out Z4 roadsters, at wages twice the state's average. But the state's largest newspaper greeted the news by somberly noting that BMW alone could not stanch the flow of jobs from South Carolina.
 When it comes to the economy in this election season, it seems that no news is good news for governors. Mr. Hodges, a Democrat who leapt into office from the Legislature in 1998 by thumping a weak incumbent, knows this all too well. 
 Governor Hodges is the weakened incumbent now, forced to answer for plummeting state revenues and mounting job losses while his Republican opponent, Mark Sanford, a former representative, accuses him of trying to hide behind the national recession. 
The South Carolina governor's race, which has been too close to call almost since it began, is one of several extremely competitive contests shadowed by voters' worries about money and jobs. Incumbents or their chosen successors are being held responsible for the stalled economy and kept on the defensive about its consequences: budget deficits, squeezed spending for education and health care, and looming tax increases.
In Alabama, Arkansas, Iowa, Wisconsin and elsewhere, governors of both parties are facing the kinds of questions about pocketbook issues that candidates in Congressional races, consumed with talk of war with Iraq, have been largely able to avoid.
The reason is simple: while senators and representatives bear little individual responsibility for the mounting federal deficit, governors are directly responsible for managing -- and balancing -- their budgets.
On the campaign trail in South Carolina, Mr. Sanford brandishes each new downbeat statistic as the grim reaper wields his scythe: 44,000 jobs gone, 2,400 small businesses shuttered, median income at 80 percent of the national average and falling.
When Mr. Sanford brought up the numbers again at a debate beamed into grade school classrooms this morning, Mr. Hodges, 45, seemed to reach his limit. "Congressman, sometimes you make South Carolina sound like Bangladesh," he said.
"Governorships are where the rubber meets the road in terms of government impacting people's lives," Mr. Sanford, 42, said this afternoon, after upstaging the politely received Mr. Hodges with a standing ovation at a regional Chamber of Commerce convention.
Across the country, the economy is by no means the single dominant issue in every race, but it is present everywhere. While Democratic strategists nationally have been trying to force the discussion in federal races, there is no need for anyone to bother in contests for governor.
Only 16 incumbents are seeking re-election in November, out of 36 races nationwide. While Republicans in New York, Connecticut, Colorado and Ohio, among other states, enjoy double-digit leads, according to polls and interviews, the handful of Democratic incumbents are having more difficulty.
In Alabama, Gov. Donald Siegelman -- a Democrat who, like Mr. Hodges, won office in 1998 after 16 years of Republican governors -- is running even or trailing slightly behind Representative Bob Riley, according to analysts and officials in both campaigns.
Although financing the public schools is the dominant issue in the campaign, it cannot be untangled from economics: sales and income taxes in Alabama are set aside by law to pay for public education. Last year, with those revenues down, the education trust fund ran a $160 million deficit, and Mr. Siegelman is proposing new corporate taxes to fill the breach. 
By contrast, the governor's Web site mockingly reports, Mr. Riley's education plan has 22,070 words, 90 pages, 19 panels and commissions, and one picture of Mr. Riley on a horse, but not a single new dollar for schools.
Mr. Siegelman may be even more vulnerable than Mr. Hodges, however: Mr. Riley, a Republican, has sought to make the election a referendum on the governor's ethics, amid accusations, investigations and news reports about cronyism and the awarding of no-bid contracts to political supporters -- including the construction of a Honda factory that Mr. Siegelman helped lure to the state.
In Iowa, another Democrat seen as highly vulnerable not long ago, Gov. Tom Vilsack, has lately opened up a 10-point lead over Doug Gross, a Republican lobbyist, who accuses Mr. Vilsack of squandering a budget surplus and burdening the state with debt. Mr. Vilsack defends himself by pointing to his furlough of 1 in 10 state workers to balance a budget that has shrunk by 9 percent during his term.
The incumbent Republican widely considered least likely to hold onto his seat is Gov. Scott McCallum of Wisconsin, who succeeded the popular Tommy G. Thompson last year.
"You're replacing a giant with somebody who operated under his shadow," said John Kohut, an analyst who tracks governor's races for the Cook Political Report, an influential nonpartisan newsletter. 
Mr. McCallum took office just in time to preside over a yawning $2.8 billion budget gap. The attorney general, Jim Doyle, a Democrat who held a seven-point lead in the latest independent poll, has accused Mr. McCallum of balancing his budget by using overly rosy projections of tax revenues.
While Jeb Bush in Florida, Rick Perry in Texas and Mike Huckabee in Arkansas are also in competitive races, 20 states have no incumbent seeking re-election -- a greater number of vacancies than in at least three decades -- most often because of term limits. Those are the most pitched battlegrounds, officials in both parties said.
The departing governor in 12 states is a Republican, said Ramona Oliver, spokeswoman for the Democratic Governors' Association. "And it's in those Republican open seats that we see being able to make up the most ground," she added.
Most estimates put Democratic pickups at a net gain of three to seven statehouses; five would give Democrats a majority of the governors for the first time since 1994.
Industrial states like Illinois, Michigan and Pennsylvania, which Al Gore carried in 2000, are among those most likely to shift to Democratic governors. But so, too, is Kansas, a traditionally Republican state where Kathleen Sebelius, a popular state insurance commissioner who is a Democrat, held a nine-point lead over the Republican state treasurer, Tim Shallenburger, in a survey released on Tuesday.
"I think the Republican Party generally may be suffering from their control during a period of economic calamity, especially in our aircraft industry, which has lost thousands of jobs -- and high-paying jobs, too," said Joseph Aistrup, chairman of Kansas State University's political science department.
Kansas is facing a possible deficit of $840 million out of a $4 billion budget next year, Mr. Aistrup said, but Mr. Shallenburger has already sworn off a tax increase and vowed to close the gap solely by cutting spending, leaving room for Ms. Sebelius to assume the voice of reason by ruling nothing out.
Mr. Aistrup also said Mr. Shallenburger, a conservative former speaker of the Kansas House, won the nomination after a divisive primary campaign in which two other candidates split the moderate vote. Like Bill Simon Jr. in California this year, Mr. Shallenburger now is having trouble drawing moderates back into the fold, Mr. Aistrup said. 
That sequence of events did not play out, however, in Tennessee, where revenue shortfalls are nothing new -- the state struggled to make ends meet even during the flush late 1990's -- even after the worsening economy led departing Republican Gov. Don Sundquist to propose an income tax.
Rather than splitting Republican ranks, the backlash against Mr. Sundquist has created a new twist: anti-incumbent campaigning where there is no incumbent in the race. Both the Democratic nominee, Phil Bredesen, the former Nashville mayor, and one of Mr. Sundquist's fellow Republicans, Representative Van Hilleary, are using Mr. Sundquist as a cudgel. Mr. Hilleary is even running a TV commercial that faults Mr. Bredesen for refusing to rule out an income tax: "Maybe we ought to call him Bredesundquist," it says, morphing Mr. Bredesen's face into the governor's.
In South Carolina, meanwhile, Mr. Hodges is doing his best to brace himself against such an anti-incumbent tide. His main defense on the economy and state finances has been an unrelenting offense: he has run 14 attack commercials, by Mr. Sanford's count, lampooning the Republican former congressman in one as a "superrich, out-of-touch politician."
Mr. Hodges also deftly changes the subject to education whenever the economy comes up, by opining that the best long-term economic development strategy is to have more people graduating from South Carolina's four-year colleges. That allows him to allude to Mr. Sanford's private-school upbringing and criticize his support for school vouchers, which Democrats hope will motivate blacks to vote in the same numbers that helped Mr. Hodges get elected in 1998.
The governor also is clearly hoping for a little help from overseas: a $700 million new Daimler-Chrysler cargo-van assembly plant is expected to be announced soon somewhere in North America, and a site in Summerville, S.C., about 20 miles inland from Charleston, is reportedly a finalist, with locations in Savannah, Ga., and in Canada.
Speaking to the Chamber of Commerce today, Mr. Hodges hinted broadly that good news was just days away.
Barring such a godsend, though, Mr. Hodges may find his optimism sorely tested in a few weeks.
"People understand the economy's a national issue," he said for the second or third time today, before driving off. "And our state, while we've had our struggles, every other state has, too."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The race for South Carolina governor between Jim Hodges, right, the incumbent, and Mark Sanford, a Republican, is too close to call. (Wade Spees for The New York Times)(pg. A16) Chart: "Races for Governor"A look at the status of the 36 races, according to two leading nonpartisan political analysts. STATE: Ala.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Donald SiegelmanREPUBLICAN: Bob Riley STATE: AlaskaCANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Fran UlmerREPUBLICAN: Frank Murkowski STATE: Ariz.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Janet NapolitanoREPUBLICAN: Matt Salmon STATE: Ark.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Jimmie Lou FisherREPUBLICAN: Mike Hukabee STATE: Calif.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Gray DavisREPUBLICAN: Bill Simon Jr. STATE: Colo.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Rollie HeathREPUBLICAN: Bill Owens STATE: Conn.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Bill CurryREPUBLICAN: John G. Rowland STATE: Fla.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Bill McBrideREPUBLICAN: Jeb Bush STATE: Ga.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Roy BarnesREPUBLICAN: Sonny Perdue STATE: HawaiiCANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Mazie HironoREPUBLICAN: Linda Lingle STATE: IdahoCANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Jerry BradyREPUBLICAN: Dirk Kempthorne STATE: Ill.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Rod BlagojevichREPUBLICAN: Jim Ryan STATE: IowaCANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Tom VilsackREPUBLICAN: Doug Gross STATE: Kan.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Kathleen SebeliusREPUBLICAN: Tim Shallenburger STATE: Me.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: John BaldacciREPUBLICAN: Peter Cianchette STATE: Md.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Kathleen Kennedy TownsendREPUBLICAN: Bob Ehrlich STATE: Mass.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Shannon OBrienREPUBLICAN: Mitt Romney STATE: Mich.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Jennifer GranholmREPUBLICAN: Dick Posthumus STATE: Minn.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Roger MoeREPUBLICAN: Tim Pawlenty STATE: Neb.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Stormy DeanREPUBLICAN: Mike Johanns STATE: Nev.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Joe NealREPUBLICAN: Kenny Guinn STATE: N.H.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Mark FernaldREPUBLICAN: Craig Benson STATE: N.M.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Bill RichardsonREPUBLICAN: John Sanchez STATE: N.Y.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Carl McCallREPUBLICAN: George E. Pataki STATE: OhioCANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Tim HaganREPUBLICAN: Bob Taft STATE: Okla.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Brad HenryREPUBLICAN: Steve Largent STATE: Ore.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Ted KulongoskiREPUBLICAN: Kevin Mannix STATE: Pa.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Ed RendellREPUBLICAN: Mike Fisher STATE: R.I.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Myrth YorkREPUBLICAN: Don Carcieri STATE: S.C.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Jim HodgesREPUBLICAN: Mark Sanford STATE: S.D.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Jim AbbottREPUBLICAN: Mike Rounds STATE: Tenn.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Phil BredesenREPUBLICAN: Van Hilleary STATE: Tex.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Tony SanchezREPUBLICAN: Rick Perry STATE: Vt.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Douglas RacineREPUBLICAN: Jim Douglas STATE: Wis.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: James DoyleREPUBLICAN: Scott McCallum STATE: Wyo.CANDIDATESDEMOCRAT: Dave FreudenthalREPUBLICAN: Eli Bebout Chart shows status of Governor races in 36 states whether the race will be a toss up, leaning, likey, or safe according to two political analysts. (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (71%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (71%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (68%); TAX LAW (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (91%)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (91%); BMW (BIT) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

PERSON: MARK SANFORD (90%); TIM PAWLENTY (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); MIKE JOHANNS (79%); MATT SALMON (75%); SONNY PERDUE (74%); RICK PERRY (74%); DONALD CARCIERI (74%); MIKE ROUNDS (59%); DIRK KEMPTHORNE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (88%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (57%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002 



430 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Dutch Designs for Cities Built on Ideas and What-If's 

BYLINE:  By JULIE V. IOVINE 

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN 

 BODY:
For a small country, the Netherlands packs a wallop on the architectural scene worldwide. And while the paterfamilias of Dutch design, Rem Koolhaas, may already be as familiar as a Prada handbag in the United States, other Dutch firms are gaining prominence here through high-profile commissions and exhibitions.
 In June the architects Ben van Berkel and Caroline Bos of UN Studio in Rotterdam unveiled their design for the renovation and expansion of the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art in Hartford. At an exhibition on view through Oct. 25, the Yale School of Architecture introduces the work of another Rotterdam firm, MVRDV. 
 For MVRDV -- the name combines the surname initials of the founders Winy Maas, Jacob van Rijs and Nathalie de Vries -- the very compactness of the Netherlands has turned out to be a major source of inspiration. Much of the firm's work, as in a government-supported proposal to free up countryside in the Netherlands by stacking pig farms in sod-layered towers, addresses issues of overcrowding, urban density and ecological imperatives.
"They are engaged architects," said Robert A. M. Stern, dean of the Yale School of Architecture, "concerned with what's going on in the world. And their belief that invention grows out of knowledge is refreshing in a profession too often mired in fashion."
Two years ago the Dutch pavilion that MVRDV designed for Expo 2000 in Hanover, Germany, was one of the most popular attractions at the fair. People lined up for hours to climb through a six-story stack of Dutch landscapes, including a forest, concrete dunes for purifying water and on top a "polder landscape," reclaimed land powered by windmills and irrigated with collected rainwater. "Our generation has been confronted with so many pessimistic views, from the ecological doomsayers of the 80's and now the economic pressures," said Mr. Maas, after a recent lecture at Yale where he regaled a full house with a high-tech presentation loaded with quick-time movie clips. "I think it's important to show that there are more ways to think about and solve problems."
The exhibition at Yale, "3D City: Studies in Density" presents -- with graphic pizazz -- the firm's preoccupation with controlled density as the ultimate antidote. At the center of a gallery, where all the windows have been covered in blackout cloth, stands a raised platform encased in walls of inward-facing video screens. Visitors climb a short staircase into a small space where they are bombarded by computer-synchronized images. The continuous video projections, called "Metacity/Datatown," are accompanied by a droning soundtrack.
"Datatown" is the architects' idea of a possible megacity of the future where 250 million inhabitants occupy a self-contained city four times the size of the Netherlands with the density of Hong Kong. Using information supplied by the Ministry of Planning and academic institutions in the Netherlands, the program presents some 21 variations: What would Datatown look like if all its inhabitants lived in detached houses? What could be done with the waste products of Datatown's citizens? (The architects estimate that about 561 ski resorts could be created.)
In another part of the exhibition, models made from fiber board, plexiglass and steel rods by MVRDV, in collaboration with architecture students from the Berlage Institute in Rotterdam, illustrate another hypothetical situation: how might a million people live in a city condensed into a two-kilometer cube? The nine "datascapes" seem to combine the density of a mille-feuille pastry with the unconventional patterns of a water-slide park.
MVRDV is less than 10 years old, but the firm has already built a formidable reputation as architects who transform abstract information into compelling form. "They are part of a generation of mostly Dutch architects for whom architecture doesn't start with program and materials, but as an investigation into social and economic forces," said Aaron Betsky, the director of the Netherlands Architecture Institute.
One of the firm's most controversial proposals, on view at Yale in another video presentation, is Pig City. Ham is big business in the Netherlands and there are now as many pigs as people (about 15 million). MVRDV imagines that with no restraints pork production could ultimately occupy as much as 80 percent of the country. So the architects came up with the idea of building pig skyscrapers along the coast. The 40-story towers would include pigpens with balconies providing sunlight, ceilings rigged with self-serve straw bales, slaughterhouses and hydroponic feed farms.
A much simplified version, only two stories high, is now being built in Brabant province as a prototype funded by the Netherlands Ministry of Agriculture. "We believe that the same concentration of resources that makes information industries like Silicon Valley so effective and innovative can be applied to help other industries like agriculture, deal with new realities," Mr. Maas said.
While the show at Yale dwells on conceptual matters, MVRDV has also built in the real world. For a low- and middle-income housing project in suburban Ypenburg, the architects took advantage of strict budget and size limitations to build a neighborhood of striking houses. Each has an entirely different roofing material -- wood shingles, tiles, corrugated plastic and aluminum -- lending each a sculptural identity all its own. "They are a landmark in innovative housing," Mr. Stern said. 
An office complex for the VPRO broadcasting company built in an older town, Hilversum, in 1997 renders in architecture the chaotic creative process favored by media companies with ramps, narrow bridges, concrete slopes and a cafeteria arranged on the ledges of cascading steps. For further inspiration as well as insulation, a meadow of wild grasses and flowers grows on the roof.
But research is MVRDV's real passion. In December the firm will put the finishing touches on Functionmixer, a software program it hopes to sell to municipalities, developers and neighborhood groups to help them chart their own futures. Once loaded with all the available raw data associated with construction -- zoning laws, height regulations, safety codes, open space, natural light -- the program juggles the numbers to show the optimal building shape for any given set of priorities. After Functionmixer, MVRDV hopes to proceed with a similar program for regional planning.
"We're not trying to invent utopias," Mr. Maas said. "It's a test to see how far we can go, if we grow on the earth in different ways."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pig City by the Dutch architectural firm MVRDV on display at Yale. (pg. E3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (87%); CITIES (87%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); FILM (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (71%); LAND RECLAMATION (69%); HOG & PIG FARMING (53%) ARCHITECTURE; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (93%); WADSWORTH ATHENEUM MUSEUM OF ART (57%) YALE UNIVERSITY; MVRDV (CO) 

PERSON: IOVINE, JULIE V 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (88%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) NETHERLANDS (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002 



431 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Airbus Gets Big Order From Easyjet; Boeing Out 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

 BODY:
Airbus announced yesterday that EasyJet, the low-cost airline based near London, had agreed to buy 120 passenger jets from Airbus and had taken an option to buy 120 more at a fixed price over the next decade. That is the largest order placed for commercial aircraft this year, and it comes as a big blow to the Boeing Company, which had also been negotiating with EasyJet. 
 Airbus executives would not give dollar figures for the order. Industry experts said that at list price, the order for 150-seat A-319 jets would come to more than $6 billion. But they added that Airbus had offered a discount of about 30 percent, raising questions about how profitable the order would prove to be for the manufacturer. It is common for large aircraft orders to be priced at discounts of 20 percent or more, and for manufacturers to throw in other benefits like training support. 
 The sale is Airbus's first significant foothold in Europe among low-fare carriers, which it had actively sought after making sales to JetBlue Airways and Frontier Airlines in the United States. Like Southwest Airlines, the profitable American carrier that led the way, many low-fare airlines tend to stick to a single aircraft model to keep maintenance costs low. 
EasyJet and its Irish-based competitor Ryanair are the two largest low-fare carriers in Europe, and both have remained profitable while traditional carriers like British Airways have bled cash. EasyJet now flies only Boeing 737's.
"This was the first big low-cost airline that had been a Boeing customer that switched," said Paul H. Nisbet, an aerospace analyst at JSA Research.
Shares of Boeing fell 94 cents, to $31.06 yesterday. "Given the success of the 737 among low-cost carriers, we believe that Airbus offered EasyJet a price lower than Boeing was willing to go," said Toby Bright, vice president of sales for Boeing's commercial division, in a statement. "When you add the apparent guarantees on maintenance and transition costs, it seems that the competition was a 'must win' at any cost for them."
John J. Leahy, chief commercial officer at Airbus, said in a telephone interview: "This is an important deal. It has been quite strategic for us. Due to some historic factors, our presence hasn't been that strong with the low-cost airlines. With all the majors, we're strong. With the charters, we're strong."
Mr. Leahy said that under the terms of the deal, Airbus will deliver 5 jets next year, 22 in 2004 and 33 in 2005; the last of the 120 planes is to arrive in 2007.
"At the end of the day, low-cost companies remain low cost by not wasting money," Stelios Haji-Joannou, chairman of EasyJet, said in a statement. "Sticking to old-fashioned fads like 'low-cost airlines only fly Boeing' does not reduce costs."
Airbus, based in Toulouse, France, also agreed to buy, at book value, up to six of EasyJet's older 737's, which it would then resell at market value, probably taking a loss on them. But Mr. Leahy said the overall deal would still be profitable for Airbus.
"We're very pleased with the transaction," Mr. Leahy said. "I don't want to say EasyJet didn't get a good deal, but this is a deal that meets our parameters."
Some analysts, including Mr. Nesbit, were more skeptical. Mr. Nesbit said that Airbus might be selling planes at a huge discount just to keep workers employed, to meet the political demands of the European governments that own shares in the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, which in turn owns 80 percent of Airbus. BAE Systems of Britain, Europe's largest military manufacturer, owns the other 20 percent.
Shares of EADS fell 4 percent, to 9.70 euros ($9.57) in Paris yesterday. BAE Systems' stock rose to $:2.02 in London.
Until now, Boeing had said it expects to deliver 275 to 300 planes next year. But some analysts said the loss of the EasyJet order could force Boeing to reduce its forecast. Airbus has been saying it expects to deliver 300 planes next year.
This week will bring more bad news for Boeing when the largest American airlines announce deep losses for the third quarter. The American airline industry is expected to lose $7 billion or more in 2002 and many carriers have postponed aircraft orders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (95%); AIR FARES (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (79%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (74%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTERVIEWS (66%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (96%); AIRBUS SAS (92%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (90%); EASYJET PLC (90%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (84%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AIRBUS INDUSTRIE; BOEING CO; EASYJET 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (96%); BAB (BRU) (96%); BA (NYSE) (96%); EZJ (LSE) (90%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (84%); LUV (NYSE) (58%); RYAAY (NASDAQ) (58%); RYA (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (96%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%) SIC3721 AIRCRAFT; SIC3728 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & EQUIPMENT; SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; 

PERSON: WONG, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) EUROPE (87%); UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002 



432 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Quick Tax Relief for an Ailing Economy 

BYLINE:  By Robert B. Reich; Robert B. Reich, secretary of labor from 1993 to 1997, is a professor of social and economic policy at Brandeis University.

DATELINE: WALTHAM, Mass. 

 BODY:
Three weeks before Election Day, most American households are still mired in recession. The American economy lost 43,000 jobs in September, the biggest drop since last February. Many people who were looking for jobs last year have given up. The ratio of jobs to potential workers continues to drop. Meanwhile, take-home pay is going nowhere; last year median household income dropped for the first time in a decade. Workers dependent on overtime, commissions or bonuses are watching paychecks shrivel. And ever-bigger portions of their paychecks are going for health insurance -- single coverage is up an average of 27 percent from last year, family coverage up 16 percent.
 Americans look to Democrats for more secure jobs and better wages. So why aren't the Democrats making Americans' economic worries more of an issue in the campaign? The basic problem is that Democrats don't have a coherent view about what ails the economy and what to do about it. Some of them accept the supply-side belief that taxes are too high on corporations and the affluent and voted in favor of the Bush administration's huge tax cut. Most other Democrats cling to the neo-Hooverian orthodoxy of the 1990's that federal deficits are inherently bad. In their view, the tax cut is largely to blame for the prolonged recession because it put the federal budget in the red. They want to restore "fiscal responsibility." 
 While President Bush's tax cut is unfair, there's no logical connection between it and what's happened to median incomes and jobs.
The problem after the late-90's boom and subsequent collapse is that there aren't nearly enough buyers for all the goods and services the economy can produce. Businesses have cut their capital spending because corporate profits have fallen. And with disappearing profits, businesses can't give their employees pay increases and benefit packages. Instead, they have to cut wages and health-care benefits. And they aren't in any position to add more jobs. Such businesses also don't buy more components and equipment and they don't rent more space. They stop investing. Eventually profits of their suppliers begin to disappear, too, as do suppliers' payrolls.
We could enter a long and vicious cycle. Workers whose pay and benefits are shrinking and who are afraid of losing their jobs simply don't spend a lot of money. They wait for cheap deals. So company profits get squeezed even more.
Even if a war with Iraq were to cost $100 billion, that amount of government spending would be too little and too late to give the economy the stimulus it needs. The Federal Reserve Board, for its part, has cut interest rates just about as much as it can. 
The only way to revive the economy is to get more money into the pockets of average working people. And the best way is through quick tax relief. Workers will spend most of a tax cut right away -- because with declining take-home pay, they have to -- and their spending will spark businesses to spend more.
The simplest way to put more money into consumers' pockets is to cut their payroll taxes, which will instantly fatten their paychecks. Congress could exempt the first $15,000 of everyone's income from payroll taxes for two years, beginning immediately. Everyone gets the same tax cut but it's more helpful to lower-paid workers since the payroll tax is so regressive. And since employers no longer have to pay their share of these taxes, they would have a new incentive to keep more people on the payroll.
Yes, this would add to deficits in the near term. But deficits aren't a problem when the economy has so much extra capacity. Lost revenues can be made up in future years by repealing President Bush's tax cut after 2004, when most of the cuts are scheduled.
A payroll tax cut for working people is that most valuable of campaign initiatives: not only good economics but also smart politics for Democrats and even Republicans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); RECESSION (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); OVERTIME (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); DISMISSALS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%) LABOR; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNEMPLOYMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; TAXATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) REICH, ROBERT B 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002 



433 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Publicis begins an extensive, and risky, reshuffling of accounts and people.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
IN one of the most sweeping post-acquisition reorganizations by an agency company, the Publicis Groupe in Paris is embarking on an ambitious -- and risky -- reshuffling of assets, accounts and employees that affects some of the biggest names in marketing like General Motors and Procter & Gamble.
 The reorganization, formally described yesterday after weeks of speculation, is centered on the elimination of D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles, a Madison Avenue mainstay that traces its roots to a shop founded in St. Louis in 1906. Publicis acquired D'Arcy last month along with other major agencies like Leo Burnett Worldwide when it completed a $3 billion takeover of the Bcom3 Group. 
 D'Arcy's clients, accounting for an estimated $9.4 billion in billings, and 6,000 employees in 72 countries will be reapportioned among three of the four largest Publicis agencies: Burnett, Publicis Worldwide and Saatchi & Saatchi Worldwide. In the United States, most D'Arcy operations will become part of the American operations of Publicis Worldwide. But some big clients like General Motors, with billings estimated at $400 million, and General Mills, an estimated $180 million, are being steered to Burnett or Saatchi & Saatchi.
"We want to make sure we are making the right decisions how best to serve our clients," Maurice Levy, chairman and chief executive at Publicis, said in a telephone interview from his Paris office.
"D'Arcy is in one of the down cycles an agency can face in its history," he added, referring to recent large account losses like Mars. "There is a view the D'Arcy brand is not as strong as the other ones. To make D'Arcy as competitive as Burnett or Publicis or Saatchi would require a lot of investment."
Publicis has grown into the world's fourth-largest agency company by deftly integrating a skein of acquisitions that included Saatchi & Saatchi, Fallon Worldwide and Hal Riney & Partners. For the most part, analysts say, Publicis avoided the disruptions, client defections and ego clashes that cost competitors like the Interpublic Group of Companies hundreds of millions of dollars in lost billings.
Still, there have been far more examples of failed reorganization attempts than success stories in the advertising world. And that means Publicis must tread gingerly in seemingly uncomplicated areas like staffing levels and office relocations, which could prompt top managers and clients to walk out the door.
"On paper, taking out administrative and other costs offers the possibility of savings, but you also have the possibility of disrupting the way people work," said Alan J. Gottesman, an analyst at West End Communications/Consulting in New York.
"Especially with what's going on in the economy, people are skittish," he added. "You have to reassure them there will be continuity or they feel their whole world is shaken up because what was important in the past is not anymore, and their future is dimmed."
That point of view was echoed by a D'Arcy client, James D. Speros, chief marketing officer for the United States at Ernst & Young in New York, which consolidated its account at D'Arcy in 1998.
"In the end, it's all about the people who work on your business," Mr. Speros said. "I have a great team on my account and I've been told they'll stay intact, so I'm thrilled."
By giving senior posts in the reconstituted agencies to top managers at D'Arcy, Mr. Levy hopes to elicit similar reactions from other big D'Arcy clients like Bristol-Myers Squibb ($150 million in billings, according to the trade publication Adweek), Capital One ($170 million), Heineken ($125 million), Philips ($250 million) and Procter ($450 million).
Susan Gianinno, 54, president and chief branding officer at D'Arcy in New York, is to become chairwoman and chief executive at Publicis Worldwide USA, which will now work for D'Arcy clients like Ernst & Young and Heineken. She will succeed Robert H. Bloom, chairman and chief executive, who has worked for Publicis since 1993 when his agency became the first to be acquired by Publicis in this country.
"I've been a part of these transactions several times," said Mr. Bloom, 68, who will serve as a consultant to Publicis, "and if the people respected and liked by clients continue to work on their business, it makes a difference."
Patrick Sherwood, 51, chief executive at D'Arcy North America in Troy, Mich., which has for decades handled the Cadillac and Pontiac accounts for General Motors, is to become president and chief executive of a new unit of Burnett. Gary Topolewski, 46, executive creative director at the Troy office, will be global chief creative officer at the unit. The unit, not yet named, is to be devoted exclusively to advertising, public relations, promotion and interactive marketing for G.M. D'Arcy and predecessor agencies have worked on and off for Cadillac since 1915 and continuously for Pontiac since 1935.
That shift will significantly bolster Burnett, which had been facing an end to its relationship with General Motors in 2004 when its Oldsmobile division is eliminated. The recent D'Arcy work for Cadillac -- complete with Led Zeppelin songs -- has been acclaimed for its ability to appeal to younger consumers, which G.M. and the agency had failed to achieve after years of failures and false starts.
Two other senior D'Arcy executives in New York are being named to new posts. Lee Garfinkel, 47, president and chief creative officer, will become worldwide creative director at Publicis Worldwide. And John Farrell, 45, president and chief executive, will serve as president and chief executive at the Specialized Agencies and Marketing Services division of Publicis.
"You have seen how we have been able to integrate Saatchi & Saatchi," Mr. Levy said, referring to the addition of that agency to the Publicis ranks in 2000, "and that is the model we want to follow."
"We want zero fallout among clients and minimum disruption of people," he added.
That is why some D'Arcy clients are being shifted to Burnett or Saatchi & Saatchi rather than Publicis Worldwide USA: the goal is to avoid potential conflicts or match them with an agency they already know. For example, Saatchi & Saatchi already handles General Mills' Big G cereals and Pillsbury brands.
As for layoffs, Mr. Levy said he could not determine that until Publicis executives sort through how the D'Arcy operations outside the United States are to be divided among Burnett, Publicis Worldwide and Saatchi & Saatchi.
The D'Arcy name joins a lengthy list of venerable Madison Avenue brands that were recently merged out of existence, including N. W. Ayer, Lintas and Needham Harper Worldwide.
D'Arcy was formed by mergers of numerous agencies that included D'Arcy Advertising, MacManus Inc. and Benton & Bowles. The D'Arcy parent, the MacManus Group, merged with the Burnett parent, the Leo Group, to form Bcom3. One of the most famous ads ever, a 1915 magazine ad for Cadillac called "The Penalty of Leadership," was written by Theodore F. MacManus.
The last line of that ad resonates today: "That which deserves to live -- lives." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (70%); RELOCATIONS (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%) ADVERTISING; LABOR; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (98%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (56%); GENERAL MILLS INC (55%); HAL RINEY & PARTNERS INC (52%); FALLON WORLDWIDE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: D'ARCY MASIUS BENTON & BOWLES; PUBLICIS GROUPE; BURNETT, LEO, WORLDWIDE; BCOM3 GROUP; PUBLICIS WORLDWIDE; SAATCHI & SAATCHI PLC 

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (98%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%); GIS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (98%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (98%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (98%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (55%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (55%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (55%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (55%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

PERSON: MAURICE LEVY (58%) ;ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (73%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002 



434 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: An Effort to Undo an Old Reservoir 

BYLINE:  By DEAN E. MURPHY 

DATELINE: YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK, Calif., Oct. 8 

 BODY:
An old black and white photograph hangs behind the bar at the Evergreen Lodge, a rustic roadside establishment just outside this park. It shows wildflowers dancing in the thick grass. A river glides between a pair of imposing granite walls.
 To visitors here, the scene from 1914 looks instantly familiar. 
 "People think it is Yosemite Valley," said Dan Braun, the lodge's proprietor. "But it is not. They have no idea that Hetch Hetchy looked like that, too." 
For most of the past century, the Hetch Hetchy Valley, 15 miles north of its more famous and bigger sibling within the park, has served as a 300-foot-deep bathtub holding melted snow from the High Sierra for people and businesses in San Francisco and its suburbs. Now a group of environmentalists wants to drain the eight-mile-long reservoir and restore the valley to what John Muir once described as a "grand landscape garden, one of nature's rarest and most precious mountain temples." 
The proposal has generated excitement among employees of the national park, consternation among San Francisco's water interests and political feuding between the environmentalists and City Hall. A citywide ballot measure in November calls for raising $1.6 billion to improve the Hetch Hetchy water delivery system, which several studies have shown to be outdated and vulnerable to a big earthquake, but environmentalists are opposing it. 
The environmentalists want to dismantle the 80-year-old O'Shaughnessy Dam on the Tuolumne River and release the 117 billion gallons of water held behind it in the Hetch Hetchy Valley. By doing so, more than 1,900 acres of submerged valley floor would be uncovered, an area that Muir liked to call the "Tuolumne Yosemite." 
"People say this is a radical idea, but wasn't it a radical idea to put a dam in a national park?" said Ron Good, executive director of Restore Hetch Hetchy, an organization formed to raise money and rally support for the restoration plan. "Imagine the opportunity we have to allow nature to recreate another Yosemite Valley."
To start, the environmentalists are thinking small and are not proposing any specific way of replacing the reservoir. Instead, they have asked San Francisco to help pay for a study to determine the cost of the proposal and to come up with alternatives -- perhaps building or expanding reservoirs or using aquifers. The study would also seek a replacement for the hydroelectric power generated by the system. Mr. Good and the other proponents say they do not want to take water or power away from San Francisco, but rather rework the network "so it is a win-win for everyone." 
So far the city has refused. But San Francisco's top water official, Patricia E. Martel, said the door was not entirely closed, even though she and many other officials consider the idea far-fetched and suspect it would cost billions of dollars.
Ms. Martel, who is general manager of the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission, said the agency would cooperate with a study that was paid for and undertaken by some other organization. She also said the general notion of replacing the reservoir would be explored in environmental reviews that would soon be needed as part of repairs and upgrades planned for the system.
"We are willing to cooperate with the environmental groups, but we are not willing to take the lead and say our mission is to restore Hetch Hetchy," Ms. Martel said. "We don't believe we have a requirement to fund that study."
In the old days, Hetch Hetchy -- it was named by the Ahwahneechee and Paiute Indians for the type of grass that once grew there -- was a breathtaking glacier-carved valley in a newly established national park, not unlike Yosemite along the Merced River. But Congress voted in 1913 to allow San Francisco, 160 miles to the west, to flood the valley in an effort to secure a reliable water supply. Richard W. Sellars, a longtime National Park Service historian, describes the decision as "the most famous and egregious invasion of a national park."
Muir was a fierce opponent of the reservoir, and was said to have died of a broken heart in 1914 after failing to block it. "Dam Hetch Hetchy!" he wrote in his book "The Yosemite." "As well dam for water-tanks the people's cathedrals and churches, for no holier temple has ever been consecrated by the heart of man."
Among Restore Hetch Hetchy's supporters is Donald P. Hodel, the former secretary of the interior under President Ronald Reagan, who floated a similar restoration proposal in the late 1980's. Though the dismantling of productive dams is not common practice, Mr. Hodel said he got the idea from Rocky Mountain National Park, where a damaged dam was taken down a decade ago. Since then, there have been other dismantlings of dams, especially ones that interfered with fisheries.
Like Muir before him, Mr. Hodel was silenced by powerful water interests. Mr. Hodel said he had little in common with the new group pushing for the Hetch Hetchy study, but he was willing to lend his name to the cause because he still believed in it. He also remained incensed at what he described as the duplicity of many San Franciscans. They are known to champion environmental causes, he said, but seem blind to the destructiveness of their own water policies.
"All of the arguments made against a study of Hetch Hetchy were about San Francisco's birthright to flood that valley -- that it is our vested economic right," Mr. Hodel said in telephone interview from Colorado, where he lives in semi-retirement. "Those are the same arguments made by slaveholders in opposition to abolition."
Mr. Hodel was especially critical of Senator Dianne Feinstein, who was instrumental in sinking his proposal when she was mayor of San Francisco and who remains a fierce opponent of any tinkering with the reservoir.
"You would think she would say, 'Let's look at the facts, let's look at the merits of this,' " he said. "But she had determined to her satisfaction that it would never work and it was unsuitable."
Ms. Feinstein said that whether mayor or senator, the idea of tearing down the O'Shaughnessy Dam looked the same to her. "It is foolish," she said.
"It makes no sense to destroy the source of the highest-quality drinking water around," Senator Feinstein said.
The Hetch Hetchy environmentalists said their overall strategy was to persuade and cajole, but they have gotten off to a rocky start with officials by taking a stance against the November ballot measure.
The measure, known as Proposition A, would allow the city to borrow $1.6 billion to help pay for about $3.6 billion in repairs and seismic improvements to the Hetch Hetchy water delivery system. That system brings water from the valley through 280 miles of pipes and 60 miles of tunnels to about 800,000 people in San Francisco and 1.6 million more in its suburbs.
The proposition is supported by the San Francisco water utility, Senator Feinstein, Mayor Willie L. Brown and a majority of the city's usually fractious Board of Supervisors. Ms. Martel, the utility's general manager, said large stretches of pipeline are more than 75 years old and desperately need to be replaced.
But A. Spreck Rosekrans, a senior analyst with Environmental Defense, one of the groups behind the effort to restore the Hetch Hetchy Valley, said that with billions of dollars in improvements ready to be spent, the moment was right to re-think the entire system.
Environmental Defense and the Planning and Conservation League wrote to city officials asking them to study the feasibility of restoring Hetch Hetchy Valley. When the officials balked, the groups vowed to fight Proposition A. Other influential environmental organizations, including the Sierra Club and the Natural Resources Defense Council, have joined in criticizing the proposition.
Win or lose on Proposition A, Mr. Rosekrans said the struggle for Hetch Hetchy had only begun. Because of the great interest in national parks around the country, and the particular popularity of Yosemite, Restore Hetch Hetchy is looking to support from outside California to counter and eventually overwhelm the local resistance.
In the meantime, Mr. Good lectures to civic and community groups and leads interpretive tours around the reservoir, where he suggests the submerged rocks "are holding their breath" and the Tuolumne River is "crying out for life again."
Standing atop the 312-foot-high concrete dam, water sprinkling from two eyelets behind him, Mr. Good quoted Muir as a source of the environmentalists' resolve:
"Imagine yourself in Hetch Hetchy on a sunny day in June, standing waist-deep in grass and flowers as I have often stood, while the great pines sway dreamily with scarcely perceptible motion."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ron Good, leader of Restore Hetch Hetchy, at the reservoir in Yosemite National Park that he wants to have drained. Officials are instead promoting a proposal to refurbish the pipes that send water to San Francisco. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) Map of California highlights the Hetch Hetchy Reservoir: The Hetch Hetchy Reservoir holds 117 billion gallons of water. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (77%); WATER RIGHTS (77%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (77%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (77%); MOUNTAINS (76%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); REFERENDUMS (72%); CITIES (71%); BALLOTS (66%) WATER; DAMS AND DIKES; RESERVOIRS; REFERENDUMS 

PERSON: MURPHY, DEAN E 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); HETCH HETCHY VALLEY (CALIF); YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002 



435 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Raises A Key Rate By 3 Points 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

 BODY:
Brazil's central bank surprised investors yesterday and raised a crucial interest rate by three percentage points, continuing an aggressive effort to halt the decline in the value of the nation's currency.
 The bank's monetary policy committee raised overnight interest rates to a three-year high of 21 percent, from 18 percent, in a move aimed at keeping short-term investment in the country by offering higher returns on domestic bonds. The increase, the first in 15 months, came as tension builds ahead of the runoff election Oct. 27. 
 Brazil's currency, the real, which was down 3 percent earlier yesterday, recovered to close down half a percentage point at 3.82 to the dollar. On the Sao Paulo stock exchange, the main index fell 4.5 percent as concerns mounted over the effect of higher borrowing rates on the economy. 
Investors were initially critical of the central bank's decision, which was characterized as an unexpected move in the middle of the standoff between Brazil's government and financial institutions speculating about the direction of the real.
"Perhaps the central bank blinked," said Alexandre Schwartsman, head of economic research at Banco BBA Creditanstalt in Sao Paulo.
Mr. Schwartsman and other analysts criticized the rate increase, saying it came at a time when concern was growing over the effect of higher rates. Brazil has traditionally had some of the world's highest interest rates but when adjusted for inflation, rates had stabilized and begun to decline in recent years.
The government has kept rates high in a bid to stabilize markets, part of a policy supported by the International Monetary Fund, which recently offered to lend Brazil $30 billion. But the higher interest rates combined with the currency's slide have led to ballooning debt costs.
Differing from some of their counterparts in the United States, few investors in Brazil are worried about a default of domestic debt as long as the central bank is able to roll over bonds in the overnight market or redeem debt by printing money, measures that would inevitably fuel inflation. Still, analysts are worried about the costs of additional rate increases. Yesterday's increase, Mr. Schwartsman said, could cost the government in interest payments the equivalent of 1.8 percent of gross domestic product, limiting its ability to alleviate social tensions with public spending.
Analysts said yesterday that if the strategy of Arminio Fraga, the president of Brazil's central bank, is to work, rates should not remain high for long. Seeking to prevent wide swings in the currency, Mr. Fraga has become more assertive in recent days.
Last Friday, for example, the central bank made it more costly to bet against the real by increasing the amount of reais that banks must keep as reserves. That decision fueled a rally in the currency's value on Friday but by yesterday it was clear that traders were ready to test the real again.
"At least Fraga is sending a clear message that he has tools available with which to fight," said Ignacio Sosa, principal manager of OneWorld Investments, a hedge fund based in Boston.
The central bank said yesterday that it raised rates because of "worsening expectations for inflation" but it also mentioned the "pronounced depreciation of the currency." 
The real, which briefly fell to a low of 4 to the dollar last week, has declined 40 percent this year.
A weaker real has raised the cost of imported goods and contributed to a small increase in inflation. But the concerns over price increases are not responsible for most of the market's volatility. Instead, investors are nervously awaiting the outcome of the presidential runoff election.
Jose Serra, the candidate favored by supporters of Brazil's centrist government, continued to trail Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of the left-leaning Workers Party, in polls released over the weekend.
Mr. da Silva has provided few details of his plans for crucial positions at the central bank and finance ministry aside from insisting that Mr. Fraga, a former associate of the financier George Soros, must go. 
Still, Mr. da Silva is thought to have warmed to the idea of granting greater independence to the central bank, according to a report over the weekend by a prominent columnist, Elio Gaspari. The move could bring calm to the markets if the appointee is agreeable to investors.
Several people have been mentioned, including Henri Philippe Reichstul, whose experience in the 1970's with a revolutionary group brings him respect with some factions of the Workers Party. Mr. Reichstul, an Oxford-educated economist, has since become one of Brazil's most respected business executives.
"A more independent central bank with the right person at its helm would be a striking example of the new government's wish for stability," said Murillo de Aragao, Brasilia-based political consultant with LatinSource, a consulting firm in New York.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Arminio Fraga, president of Brazil's central bank, is seeking to prevent wide swings in the real. (Reuters)(pg. C15); Traders on the floor of the Brazilian Mercantile and Futures Exchange reacted yesterday as the stock market slumped in volatile trading after the central bank increased interest rates. (Reuters)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); INFLATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (70%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY; FINANCES 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON; FRAGA, ARMINIO 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (74%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002 



436 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: A Green Foothold in the Downtown Concrete; 
Apartment High-Rise Will Set an Environmental Benchmark Near Ground Zero

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
In the nerdy world of green construction, 20 River Terrace was already an address with a big reputation -- even before everything changed.
 The building, begun early last year just a few blocks from the World Trade Center, was to be the world's most environmentally correct residential high-rise, its developers said -- an air-purified, solar-paneled monument to the marriage of mother earth and technological gee-whiz. 
 Now as construction resumes after a 10-month break during the cleanup of ground zero, the 27-story tower has become even more than the sum of its ambitions, builders and environmentalists say.
When the job started, Lower Manhattan was pretty much a finished product, and 20 River Terrace, for all its departures from the norm, was just another building. Now the city is gripped by a debate over what to rebuild at ground zero and what future to envision. 
Environmental awareness among residents, office workers and employers was sharply elevated by the dust from the twin towers' collapse and the lingering smoke from their ruins. A regional drought put new value on water conservation. And the linkage of Middle Eastern oil and the financing of terror gave solar power new life, environmentalists say, because using alternative fuels can now be considered an act of political defiance.
The biggest single element that has changed, development experts say, is that in Lower Manhattan, thinking beyond the old boundaries is now in fashion, and right there, on downtown's front porch, is Exhibit A of how to do it. 
"To have a sustainable building going up in an area that was a target of a terror attack is a very powerful thing," said Richard Florida, a professor of regional economic development at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh and an adviser to the Regional Plan Association, which is helping put together a new design for downtown. "I think there's a great possibility that this example will trigger things even more imaginative on the part of architects or designers."
Other planners and environmentalists say that 20 River Terrace and the set of environmental construction standards created by the Battery Park City Authority, which oversees the building project, are already leading the way. The construction resumed in July and completion is expected next spring. The authority, a state-chartered agency developing the landfill areas of Lower Manhattan (which were largely created by the excavation for the trade center in the late 1960's) had planned a series of green residential towers long before Sept. 11.
"The philosophy is that if you create a healthier building, you make people healthier," said Timothy S. Carey, the president and chief executive of the authority. 
No matter what philosophical effect 20 River Terrace has or does not have on downtown, developers say, it is also very much a prototype that must work on its own, in engineering and financial terms. Although New York is already home to what is considered the nation's first environmentally green high-rise office tower, the Conde Nast building at 4 Times Square in Midtown, apartment buildings have very different issues and patterns of use, from the peaks of power demand to the far higher volumes of water use. 
The skeleton of 20 River Terrace has twice as many water pipes and air ducts in its apartments as a conventional high-rise residential building. Each apartment will have its own dedicated air supply -- filtered and humidified -- and a separate water line just for flushing the toilets with treated waste water piped up from the treatment plant in the basement. There are also pipes leading to and from a 10,000-gallon rainwater collection tank that will be used to water the rooftop garden, which is intended to reduce the building's radiant heat and energy loss.
"The interesting thing is that it's forcing us to develop innovative ways of building in a sustainable fashion at appropriate costs," said Martin Dettling, a vice president at the Albanese Development Corporation and the project manager. "Our lenders want the building to be financially sustainable, too."
To meet the Battery Park guidelines and also qualify for a green building tax credit created by New York State earlier this year, 20 River Terrace must use 35 percent less energy than a similar-sized structure built under the standard construction codes. Building materials must follow a complex formula establishing their percentage of recycled content, and there must be affidavits and a paper trail to prove it. At least 40 percent of components must be manufactured no farther than 500 miles from the job site, to hold down air pollution from long-distance truck transportation.
Jumping through all those hoops at once required compromise and constant calculation, contractors said. How the solar-energy collectors on the building's exterior changed their color midway through the project tells that tale. 
The original design specified black photovoltaic panels -- running halfway up the tower's southwest side. The subcontractor found a Delaware supplier, within the 500-mile limit, who was making solar panels out of recycled silicon, using chips discarded by the computer industry. Using the Delaware supplier would thus get two benefits for one in meeting the rules -- more recycled content, close enough -- but there was a problem. The solar panels would have to be blue, not black. 
So the exterior design changed. Blue it was.
There were some culture clashes, too.
Anthony O. Pereira, a former organizer for Greenpeace who now develops alternative energy systems and whose business cards say they are printed with soy ink on recycled paper, vividly recalls making his first presentations to the general contractor, the Turner Corporation, a big, old-line firm that has been building New York skyscrapers for more than 100 years.
"The first few meetings were very intimidating," Mr. Pereira said, "but we decided that if we worked twice as hard, we could still earn their respect."
Other construction experts say Sept. 11 also raised the profile for green construction by illuminating how incredibly expensive it is to put in water and electricity and sewer systems once they have been destroyed.
"If you use less energy and less water and you're putting less water out as waste, then you don't have to think about the big things like putting more pipes in and more wires, and the political and economic implications of that are enormous," said William D. Browning, a senior consultant at the Rocky Mountain Institute, a nonprofit group in Snowmass, Colo., that works on resource efficiency issues.
Green buildings are designed to depend less on water and energy resources; 20 River Terrace, for example, will use a third less water than a typical tower of 293 apartments. It will also generate about 5 percent of its own electricity through solar collectors and use natural gas for its air-conditioning system, which, developers say, will help avoid summertime electricity price spikes.
Mr. Dettling, the project manager at 20 River Terrace, said that in watching the building rise, he is seeing another payoff as well: a growing expertise in how to make it all work. "First there's resistance to new things, then acceptance," he said. "Then competition kicks in, and you get innovation, efficiency and cost savings." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers pouring concrete at 20 River Terrace in Battery Park City. Developers say it will be the world's most environmentally correct residential tower. Its air is to be purified, and solar panels will generate electricity. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. B8) Chart/Diagram:20 RIVER TERRACE Will be 27 stories tall with 293 apartments. It will be the first high-rise residential building to use many new environmentally friendly construction methods and materials. High-pefrormance thermal windows High use of materials with recycled content Built-in solar panels generate 5 percent of building electricity Apartments have high-efficiency appliances and lighting with master shut-off Provision for future electric fuel cells (BASEMENT) Tank to hold rainwater collected for site irrigation Landscaped roof garden watered with storm runoff Air supply is filtered and conditioned with regular air-quality monitoring Water recycling plant Parking garage with efficiency lighting and pollution monitors Chart shows residential building that are completed, under construction, and future residential building sites in Battery City Park. (John Papasian/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); GREEN BUILDING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); LANDFILLS (75%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); TERRORISM (71%); SOLAR ENERGY (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); INDOOR AIR QUALITY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); EARTH (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002 



437 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Anaheim Journal; 
Angels-Crazy Suburb Longs for an Ending Right Out of Disney

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: ANAHEIM, Calif., Oct. 14 

 BODY:
The Anaheim Angels' success in the American League playoffs is not just a victory for a long-suffering baseball franchise. It is a vindication for the strip malls, the used-car lots, the smog-shrouded freeways, the housing tracts and the past-their-prime downtowns throughout Southern California.
 "This is a victory for the new suburbia, what could be called a post-suburban suburbia," said Joel Kotkin, a scholar of American urban life at Pepperdine University. "The success of the Angels represents a kind of coming of age for Orange County. It's Anaheim's revenge on all the sophisticates in New York and San Francisco and the West Side of L.A. who like to make fun of them." 
 City officials have begun planning a celebration if the team wins the World Series. But they have not decided whether to have a parade or simply stage the kind of rally that another suburban team, the New Jersey Devils, held in the parking lot of its arena when it twice won hockey's Stanley Cup. There is no Canyon of Heroes here, not even a Peachtree Street, to serve as a focus of city pride. City government buildings line Anaheim Boulevard, but that municipal complex quickly fades to warehouses, car lots and mini-marts.
The real heart of the city, the attraction that draws nearly 30 million visitors a year, is the Disney fantasia, which has grown beyond the original Disneyland to include a second park, Disney's California Adventure, and a new shopping and entertainment district called Downtown Disney.
John Nicoletti, Anaheim's chief public affairs officer, said Edison Field, where the Angels play, would certainly be a site for celebration if the team won the Series. But he said officials were also talking about taking advantage of the immaculate and tightly secured Disney entertainment complex, which has come to symbolize the city.
"Downtown Anaheim is Anaheim Boulevard and the Center Street Promenade," Mr. Nicoletti said, referring to the complex built a decade ago to replace the city's hollowed-out urban core. "And I hate to say this, but Downtown Disney is certainly a cultural hub as well. It is bordered by two theme parks and ESPN Zone, and it's a natural drawing place for people during a sports event."
It is also something of a natural fit for a celebration of the Angels since Disney owns the team, as well as the Anaheim Mighty Ducks of the National Hockey League.
Angels fans are delighted, and more than a little surprised, at their team's success. Like hopeful fans everywhere, they see destiny at work, for their ball club and for their city.
"Toward the end of the regular season, I said they're going all the way," said Juan Garcia-Alaniz, a salesman at Acapulco Auto Sales on Anaheim Boulevard a few blocks south of City Hall. "It's not that they're going to win it because they're good, but because they want it, and we need it." 
Anaheim is one of the oldest settlements in Orange County, established in the mid-1850's by German utopians who came to grow grapes. When the vineyards were wiped out by blight in the 1870's, the farmers switched to oranges, which became the basis of the area's economy for the next 75 years.
Today the orange groves are gone, along with virtually all other traces of the city's agricultural past. Anaheim is now, for good and ill, a microcosm of Southern California, home to 330,000 mostly working-class residents and hundreds of small retailers and manufacturers. Nearly half the population is Latino; an additional 13 percent is of Asian descent. More than 60 percent of the families live on $50,000 a year or less, struggling to afford houses and apartments that are mostly small and aging.
The Disney complex employs 20,000 people: costumed mice and chipmunks working in shifts, hotel chambermaids, security guards, shop clerks and busboys. Many earn less than $20,000 a year and are forced by high housing costs to double up with relatives, live in cheap motels or commute from cheaper suburbs farther inland. 
Nor has Anaheim escaped the rising crime rate afflicting much of Southern California. Roger A. Baker, the city's chief of police, said its crime rate was lower than that of any other American resort district. Still, after steadily falling rates in the 1990's, Anaheim is suffering a surge of serious felonies.
While Anaheim has become absorbed by the Orange County agglomeration around it, it has retained some of what made it distinctive: a collection of well-maintained Craftsman-style bungalows, 45 tidy city parks and the Disney-owned attractions and sports teams.
"It is a place that is becoming comfortable with itself," said Mr. Kotkin, of Pepperdine University. "This is not just typical boosterism, but the beginning of place-making where there was no place."
"This really has a lot to do with resurgence of the older suburbs," he added. "These places are the most interesting and diverse places in the country right now."

GRAPHIC: Photo: These days, a banner with the Angels' logo is prominently hung outside City Hall in Anaheim. (J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SUBURBS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); CITIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (88%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); PARADES & MARCHES (73%); CONVENIENCE STORES (73%); SPORTS AWARDS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%) GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; BASEBALL; PLAYOFF GAMES; WORLD SERIES; AMUSEMENT AND THEME PARKS 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (85%)

ORGANIZATION: ANAHEIM ANGELS (94%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (93%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (55%) ANAHEIM ANGELS; DISNEYLAND (ANAHEIM, CALIF); DOWNTOWN DISNEY (ANAHEIM, CALIF); DISNEY'S CALIFORNIA ADVENTURE (ANAHEIM, CALIF) 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (85%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (85%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (85%)

PERSON: BRODER, JOHN M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) ANAHEIM (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002 



438 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From Candidate's Old Columns 

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from columns written by Douglas R. Forrester for The West Windsor-Plainsboro Chronicle, a weekly newspaper.

D.W.I. Checks: Roadblocks to Freedom
 Some have claimed that these checkpoints are effective as deterrents and that is why there is a low incidence of arrests at these locations. I remember an old friend who hung garlic on his door posts to keep away vampires. It was difficult to argue against his statistics. I tried to suggest that, perhaps, the garlic had nothing to do with his success and that it may be attributable to other factors, like the low incidence of vampires in the area. He wouldn't listen; he would rather be safe than sorry. June 21, 1990 

Forgive Your Enemies
This season of Passover and Easter is the best of public reminders that forgiveness is not cheap. The Passover lamb and the man on the cross make the same point. The same person who begged divine forgiveness for his executioners was abused for amusement purposes by Roman captors in the hours before his death. They were no seconds to the Iraqis. I believe that we are better off remembering his concluding remarks: "Forgive them." March 21, 1991

Atlantic City's 'Mocking Grin'
I don't like Atlantic City. In fact, I don't know anyone who does. Government officials complain about the failure of the casinos to spur the city's redevelopment; casino officials quietly bemoan the lack of public leadership. . . . The sorry eyes of the elderly who trudge the boardwalk in pursuit of a life which has passed them by are most telling: Atlantic City isn't so much a city of dreams as it is a Cheshire cat smile, a mocking grin for those who believe that life in the fast lane brings prosperity. Never has a place fallen so short of its potential. May 16, 1991

Rifling Our Liberty
We should avoid any encroachment by the public sector into private matters which don't have a compelling public purpose. I believe the case against semiautomatic weaponry is hard to document, let alone prove. It is, unfortunately, a prime case of politicians offering emotional satisfaction because they cannot or will not offer any substantive relief from violent crime. Oct. 15, 1992 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); VIOLENT CRIME (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); PASSOVER (69%); EASTER SEASON (69%); CITIES (66%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002 



439 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: THE 2002 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRAT; 
McCall Charges Pataki Created A Fiscal 'Mess'

BYLINE:  By SHAILA K. DEWAN 

 BODY:
H. Carl McCall, the Democratic candidate for governor, said yesterday that Gov. George E. Pataki had mismanaged the state's response to the slumping economy, leaving Albany facing huge deficits and unable to take on bold new initiatives.
 Mr. McCall, the state comptroller, described a government tightly constrained. He said it would have to cut many expenses -- though he added that he hoped to be able to preserve and even increase spending on education -- because overburdened taxpayers should not be asked to pay more. 
 As a result, he said, a McCall administration would focus on streamlining and professionalizing government, using management techniques like evaluating agencies, and consulting panels of outside advisers. 
Ultimately, he said in a 90-minute interview with reporters and editors of The New York Times, only an improving economy would give the state the financial resources to finance existing programs and create new ones. He pledged to try to persuade businesses to take advantage of low costs in the state's depressed upstate region and relocate there.
For the moment, he said, budget constraints meant the state would be unable to give cash to New York City to help close the city's huge, looming deficits. What he can offer, he said, is "a sympathetic ear and a willingness to work" with city leaders. Excerpts, Page B6. 
The interview touched on issues ranging from the redevelopment of Lower Manhattan to casino gambling. Mr. McCall spoke with an insider's knowledge of state government, yet avoided specifics, saying the state's fiscal uncertainties made it difficult for him to commit to new programs, or to even say how he would change or cut existing programs.
Mr. McCall criticized Mr. Pataki repeatedly, saying the governor had stocked the state payroll with political supporters, failed to come up with a comprehensive economic development plan, placed the state heavily in debt and allowed needless waste in agency after agency. Furthermore, he said, the governor had concealed the state's true fiscal picture from the public and the Legislature.
"George Pataki's going to leave a real mess," Mr. McCall said.
He accused Mr. Pataki, who has served for two terms that included an economic boom, of squandering opportunities and the state's resources.
"Have they created the gap?" he asked. "Have they been responsible for the financial condition of the state? Not entirely, but they have not managed well, either."
He said Medicaid and transportation had been poorly managed, and that the governor had shown little concern over issues like education, particularly higher education.
Yet, he acknowledged, Mr. Pataki has had some success appealing to voters in New York City and the suburbs, and has been able to gain support from traditionally Democratic constituencies. He attributed this to Mr. Pataki's "ability to appear to -- becoming more moderate."
But, he said, "He has no real ideology whatsoever. He is a pragmatist and goes where he thinks people want to see him."
With three weeks to go before the election, Mr. McCall said, "What I'm trying to do is to get people to focus not on his presence but on his performance."
Mr. McCall said he would move aggressively to make sure that issues that are important to him -- like a gay rights bill and changes in the Rockefeller drug laws -- are pushed through the Legislature. He said he would do this by horse trading with Senate Republicans, and by "helping to get more Democrats and more progressive people elected to the Senate," an act that would break a longstanding, informal nonaggression pact between the political parties.
Mr. McCall said that he would not tolerate Albany's common practice of ratifying important legislation before the public and most members of the Legislature have had an opportunity to study it. He said he would even veto legislation if it were approved without comment or review.
Just the threat of a veto, he predicted, would help break the pattern of secrecy and the gridlock that has led to a record string of late budgets.
But Mr. McCall also spoke of political pragmatism. While he had originally opposed Mr. Pataki's effort to eliminate a commuter tax, he now says he will not try to reimpose the tax because suburbanites feel overburdened. He also said he supported an Assembly proposal to soften the Rockefeller drug laws although critics of the laws regard it as a weak compromise. "I want to start somewhere and that seems to be a reasonable starting point," he said.
He was cautious about proposing new state programs or initiatives. He said he could not commit to such programs until he could determine the true extent of the state's budget gap, which he estimated would exceed $5 billion.
He said that although he did not want to raise taxes, he could not promise that he would not have to.
"I start off with an intention not to raise taxes because people simply feel that they're terribly overburdened now with taxes," Mr. McCall said. "So I do not want to raise taxes.
"On the other hand, cutting expenses, we'll have to do that," he added.
Michael McKeon, a spokesman for the Pataki campaign, defended the governor's record on financial matters, saying the state had record surpluses and its highest credit rating in 23 years. 
"The experts from Wall Street took a look and said that we're on sound ground because of sound fiscal management," Mr. McKeon said.
At one point, Mr. McCall said that even the most popular programs, like spending on education and health care, might have to be cut. "Everything will have to be put on the table," he said. But he also said that savings could be found within the education budget, allowing the state to shift dollars to finance school policies he favors, like smaller class sizes.
"I'm not willing to say there is no money," he said. "Nor am I willing to say we're going to solve this overnight."
On education, he said he supported standardized testing. But he said he wanted the state to let alternative schools use their own methods of assessment.
This had been the practice until April 2001, when the State Board of Regents mandated testing for all students.
Concerning aid to New York City, which is facing a $5 billion deficit of its own, he said the state's ability to help was limited. "I don't think that the state government is going to be in a position to provide cash," he said.
"New York City will need help," he added. "New York City's major issue will be money. They are facing a very significant budget deficit. The mayor has acknowledged it. And I applaud the mayor for his efforts to come forward with specific proposals to close the gap. I will look at those proposals. I will try to be helpful. And those proposals that make sense, that will help the city, I will help the mayor gain approval of those proposals in Albany."
He said he was also concerned with economic conditions upstate. He said he would focus economic development on central and western New York and market those areas aggressively as inexpensive places to do business. He faulted the governor for ignoring the region's needs until after he had campaigned there in 2000 with Rick Lazio, who had been running for a United States Senate seat against Hillary Rodham Clinton, and had found widespread dissatisfaction over the state of the economy. 
"The governor's economic development program was a failure," Mr. McCall said. "It was driven by ad hoc attempts to provide grants and incentives to companies after they announced that they were leaving New York."
Mr. McCall repeatedly said he would "put professionals in charge" of various agencies under the governor's control, including the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, which is charged with rebuilding the downtown area.
That effort, he said, has proceeded too slowly. He said he would make "whole-scale changes," but declined to say whom he would remove from or appoint to the development corporation board.
On casino gambling, Mr. McCall criticized the governor again for not having had a comprehensive plan.
"We've got to step back and look at the whole thing rather than doing it on an ad hoc basis, in the middle of the night agreeing we're going to have six casinos someplace," Mr. McCall said, referring to a casino deal that the Legislature passed shortly after Sept. 11, 2001. "Let's step back and let's have a policy that is driven by social, economic and other concerns. And we end up with something that makes sense for the state." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: H. Carl McCall, seen here in a January photograph, said Gov. George E. Pataki had mismanaged the state's response to a faltering economy. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); POLITICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); MEDICAID (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); RELOCATIONS (67%); CITY LIFE (66%); CITIES (66%); CASINOS (52%); GAMING (50%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FINANCES; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: DEWAN, SHAILA K; MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002 



440 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: For New York Fans, It's More Like Mudville 

BYLINE:  By ANDY NEWMAN 

 BODY:
As Yogi Berra might have put it, it sure got late early for New York sports fans.
 It's only mid-October, a time when championships, or at least hopes for them, are usually ripening, and it already feels like this could be the longest, loneliest sports season in 15 years. 
 The Jets, who usually wait until December to break hearts, are a 1-4 disaster. And the Giants may be worse: 3-3, yes, but boring. 
The Knicks, who made a big point of laying down the law to one of their star players, now have to pick up the pieces of their season before they've even played an official game -- thanks to the broken kneecap of the power forward who was supposed to be the centerpiece of their resurgence.
The Yankees, of course, are history, with Derek Jeter trying to find a way for his $189 million contract to lighten what the back page of a newspaper called his profound depression over the sudden end of his autumn activity. And those other Giants, the deserters who split for the West Coast 45 short years ago, have now brought about -- horror of New York horrors -- an all-California World Series.
But in perhaps the most alarming measurement of the city's sense of sporting desolation, fans searching for a local winner may be forced to turn to a team whose middle name is Jersey.
"Everybody's sick," Jorge Goldburn, 40, said yesterday at the OTB parlor near Brooklyn's Borough Hall, as he waited for the next race at Belmont to start. "The only team doing anything at all right now is the Nets."
Of course, this is just sports. It's not like, say, the economy stuck in the tank, or the war on terror.
Sports is also full of long-shot surprises, so maybe the Rangers will somehow find their way to their second Stanley Cup since 1940.
But for New Yorkers, sports is an organizing obsession -- one that promotes conversation, provides relief, generates some collective if fleeting nourishment. And it must be said: it's been a long time since basic optimism seemed in such short supply.
"I'm not that old, but it's never been as bad as this," said Jay Brennan, 22, a truck driver who was surveying the bleak landscape of losing from the ESPN Zone sports entertainment complex in Times Square yesterday afternoon. "The Mets stink, the Yankees stink, the Knicks stink -- well, the season hasn't started yet, but they're already stinking. And the Jets -- geez, they're terrible. It seems like all of the New York teams have lost their heart."
One might have to reach back to the Koch administration -- from the fall of 1987 to the spring of 1988, to be precise, when the Yankees, Mets, Giants, Jets, Knicks and Rangers all missed the playoffs -- to find a season as cheerless as this one has the potential to be.
Most of the damage seemed to happen suddenly, in the course of a couple of October weekends. First, the Yankees folded like lawn chairs (or, maybe more accurately, Mets) at the feet of a perennial also-ran, the Anaheim Angels.
Then, on Saturday, the Knicks saw their prospects for success collapse when Antonio McDyess, acquired in a blockbuster off-season trade, broke his kneecap. Until then the team's preseason had been marked by the disciplining of Latrell Sprewell, who responded by sulking on his yacht in Milwaukee, of all places, nursing his pride as much as his broken pinky.
The next day, the spiritual anchor of the Giants' defense, the tackle Keith Hamilton, was helped off the field with that most symbolic of season-ending injuries, a torn Achilles' tendon.
Three games into their season, the Rangers, who haven't made the playoffs for five years running, already have an embarrassing 6-0 loss under their belts, and a 1-2 record. The Islanders, meanwhile, have lost both games they've played.
Of course, the perpetually porous Jets, for a change, did not lose on Sunday. On the other hand, they didn't play.
Throughout most of the 1990's, New York's all-around sporting prowess and postseason omnipresence seemed an integral part of the city's resurgence. The swagger of the Giuliani years derived in no small part from the spectacle of the mayor whooping it up in a Yankees cap.
So does the current losing streak mean the city is weakened?
Never, promised Dan Daly, behind the bar at the estimable Coogan's in Manhattan's Washington Heights. 
"It's coincidence," he said. "It's just kind of the ebb and flow. The consensus at the bar is that it's just the fortunes of what goes on in professional sports -- and poor judgment on the part of management."
Still, he conceded, "it is insane. Maybe the Giants might do something, but not this year. It's kind of wait till next year already."
There have been a few bright spots, to be sure. Last month the Staten Island Yankees, the Bronx Bombers' farm team, won the Class A Penn League championship for the second time in three years.
And here's good news for Knicks fans: season tickets, for which there is usually a long waiting list, are yours for the asking (and the $2,800). According to Ticketmaster, there are even $210 and $100 seats still available for the home opener, Nov. 2 against the Celtics.
Morris McWilliams, who managed the Harlem 12-year-olds to the Little League World Series in August, prescribed patience for fans and players alike.
"You've got to continue to persevere and hang in there," Mr. McWilliams said. "Hopefully things will turn themselves as time goes on."
Back at the OTB, a 58-year-old security guard named A. Gardner said that although he would not bet on any of the local teams -- "That would be stupid" -- he remained hopeful.
"Take the Knicks," he said. 'You can't go by the preseason. I'm not going to give up on them."
Then he turned his attention to what seemed like a surer thing.
"Come on 3," he shouted at the TV screen as the horses rounded a turn. "Get him 3. Get on that rail!"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Derek Jeter, Joe Torre and other Yankees players and coaches watched the Anaheim Angels celebrate after eliminating the Yankees from the post-season 10 days ago. New York teams have had disappointing seasons. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS FANS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (77%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (75%); ICE HOCKEY (73%); BONE FRACTURES (71%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (68%) ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; BASEBALL; WORLD SERIES; PLAYOFF GAMES 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); NEW YORK GIANTS (83%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (59%); NEW YORK JETS (58%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%) NEW YORK YANKEES 

PERSON: DEREK JETER (67%) NEWMAN, ANDY; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (70%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002 



441 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Working to Put Blacks on France's Agenda 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 14 

 BODY:
"They say, France is one and indivisible," said Dogad Dogoui, with characteristic deadpan humor, as he poked at a lunch of fish recently. "I say, yes, and with lots of people who are invisible."
 After 17 years in France, Mr. Dogoui is still uncomfortable with the French treatment of blacks. 
 He is one of hundreds of thousands of nonwhite immigrants, mainly blacks and Arabs, whom France has absorbed over the years from its former colonies in Africa and the Caribbean. But French sensitivity to the Arabs in their midst, largely because of the potential for a spillover of violence from the Middle East, far outstrips that toward blacks here, he said. 
So last year, Mr. Dogoui, a stocky, cheerful man who earns a living advising foreign companies how to do business in France, founded a club for black business leaders. Now, he is spearheading a drive to involve more blacks in politics.
French attitudes toward blacks, he conceded, are ambiguous. The cradle of human rights, Paris raised a statue early in the last century to Toussaint-Louverture, the black Haitian liberator. For years, the French have regularly denounced American racism, and the road from Harlem to Paris was wide, inviting talented American blacks like the singer Josephine Baker, musicians like Sydney Bechet and writers like Richard Wright, Langston Hughes and James Baldwin.
Yet, today, blacks are not much on the French agenda, said Mr. Dogoui, 38, who migrated here from Abidjan, Ivory Coast. He thinks they should be.
"For 30 years France has been changing," he said. "But they don't open their eyes and see it."
Officially, blacks number about 1.5 million of a total population of 59 million. But the unofficial number is higher, Mr. Dogoui maintains, and more come daily.
In national elections this year, Christiane Taubira, a feisty economist from French Guiana, became the first black candidate for president, drawing 660,000 votes, or 2.3 percent of the total.
But in French politics, Mr. Dogoui said, "blacks arrange the chairs at conferences and clean up afterward." No black person sits in the National Assembly or in regional parliaments. In all of France, he said, there are only about 100 black City Council members. "That's ridiculous," he said, "What does that mean, among 36,000 towns and cities?"
The oldest of 12 children, Mr. Dogoui grew up in comfortable circumstances -- his father was deputy director of the port of Abidjan. At one time, he had wanted to emigrate to Quebec, but his father objected, saying the move would carry him too far from their close-knit family. He is now married to a French woman from Normandy; they have three children. In 1994, he became a French citizen.
After trying unsuccessfully to enroll in medical school, Mr. Dogoui studied psychology, but became drawn to public relations. He obtained his degree from the leading French school for public relations, making useful contacts while working as an intern in several government ministries. Earlier, he had attended a Catholic boarding school in Normandy, where he cut his teeth on politics, founding an African students association and organizing an African film festival.
As a student, Mr. Dogoui supplemented an allowance from his father by working with other black and Arab immigrants in a packaging plant in a Paris suburb. While there, he saw how long hours on the factory floor prevented the blacks from overseeing their children's education. But what particularly troubled him, he said, was how the workers clung to an immigrant mentality, happy to have escaped African poverty and content with the simplest of jobs.
"They forget that their kids are not immigrants," he said. 
They nevertheless showed enough concern to complain that the schools offered their children none of the extra help they needed or a place to study after hours. "It's not a financial question but a question of interest," Mr. Dogoui said. 
While white pupils are encouraged to continue studying, black children are steered toward vocational training. He heard, he said, of black students telling their teachers they wanted to study medicine, only to be laughed at.
"Black kids say, 'Why should I study journalism?' " he said. "There are no blacks on TV."
Mr. Dogoui likes to tell a story about his 10-year-old son, who returned recently from a trip to London, where he visited stores with nonwhite owners. "They're bosses there," the boy told his father, with an unmistakable note of wonder. 
During a layover recently at the Amsterdam airport, Mr. Dogoui sat in a lounge with other business people. One-third of them were black, he said, yet he was the only French person. The others were from North America, Britain and the Netherlands. France's largest corporations have no black directors or senior executives, he said, claiming competent blacks are unavailable. 
Yet, as a corporate consultant advising North American and Scandinavian companies how to do business with French companies, Mr. Dogoui has observed how savvy businesses use blacks to increase their effectiveness in dealing with nonwhite countries or customers. Finding competent black executives should be "a challenge for French companies," he said. But it isn't one that they seem particularly eager to confront. "Sometimes it's racism," he said, referring to French companies. "But sometimes they just don't get it." 
When asked whether the French people are racist, however, he reflected a moment before saying no.
Some blacks see the French as racists, he said, because they distrust all French society. "I chose to adapt," he said, attributing his success to his mastery of the French language, which he spoke at home in Abidjan, and to an ease accepting people of other cultures that he inherited from his father. 
At boarding school and in college, he said, he met French students who were curious about Africa and its art, literature and film. But the average French person, he said, shows little interest. 
France, he said, is "a strange country -- closed, traditional, even on the left."
One goal of the business club is to create an investment fund to finance black start-up companies. France has room for ethnic African and Caribbean restaurants, Mr. Dogoui said, as well as hairdressers and cosmetics. French advertising lacks blacks, he notes, both in the advertisements and the agencies, and has neither a major black newspaper nor magazine.
The goal of Mr. Dogoui's political movement is to discover talented blacks to run for office at all levels of government. He has no illusions about the difficulties they will face.
For example, when the new prime minister, Jean-Pierre Raffarin, assembled his cabinet last spring, black leaders including Mr. Dogoui asked him to name a black minister for African affairs. They were refused.
Blacks, he said, "are disappointed with the left," believing that the former Socialist prime minister, Lionel Jospin, did little for them. "And they mistrust the right."
He favors no particular faction. "My dream," he said, "is to have blacks some day on the left, on the right and in the center."
An optimist by nature, he fears nonetheless that, barring change, racial unrest could explode in France as it did in America in the 1960's. High-rise slums surrounding French cities are cauldrons of racial anger dominated by urban gangs. "And they are armed," he said.
"You have to give young people hope."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dogad Dogoui's political movement aims to find talented blacks to run for office in France. (Owen Franken for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); IMMIGRATION (71%); RACE & RACISM (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); ELECTIONS (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); MUSIC (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); CITY LIFE (60%); CITIES (60%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); CITIZENSHIP (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%) FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRENCH GUIANA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); AFRICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (77%); MIDDLE EAST (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



442 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo and McCall Assail Pataki at Parade 

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
Andrew M. Cuomo returned to the campaign trail yesterday with his former Democratic Party rival, H. Carl McCall, to accuse Gov. George E. Pataki of dodging one-on-one debates and failing to specify plans for a third term.
 Speaking at a news conference before marching in the Columbus Day Parade, Mr. Cuomo and Mr. McCall both called Sunday's debate a "circus" that deprived potential voters a chance for a rigorous examination of either Mr. Pataki's or Mr. McCall's positions or record. The debate included seven candidates -- at least three from parties just hoping to get 50,000 votes so their party can hold onto a ballot line in future elections. 
 Mr. Cuomo, the former federal housing secretary who quit the Democratic primary a week before the vote, said Mr. Pataki would not debate Mr. McCall one on one because he could not account for what the Democrats called failures to improve education and the struggling upstate economy.
"His campaign has two disabilities," Mr. Cuomo said of Mr. Pataki. "First, he has no memory of the past. And second, he has no vision for the future."
Mr. Pataki, meanwhile, marching in the parade with Charles A. Gargano, his top economic development aide and chairman of the parade committee, ridiculed Mr. McCall for changing his position on debating. Mr. McCall had originally called for all candidates to participate and then demanded one-on-one debates with Mr. Pataki. On Sunday Mr. McCall said he would debate any candidate one on one.
"Carl McCall keeps changing his mind," Mr. Pataki said as he marched. "He started out saying he wanted all seven candidates, then he said he wanted three candidates, now he is saying he would take any two candidates. I think it's appropriate that anyone who the public has the right to vote for have the opportunity to be seen."
During the campaign Mr. McCall has laid out his own plans for education and the economy, though he has not said how he would find $8 billion to finance his education initiatives when the economy is weak and a huge budget deficit is expected.
Mr. Pataki has not offered any sweeping proposals for the next four years, suggesting instead that he planned to stay the course of his first two terms. When asked to respond to Democrats' complaints about his vision, he pointed to economic development projects that he has begun as well as to plans to convert Governors Island in New York Harbor into a college campus.
Mr. Cuomo, who quit campaigning a week before the Democratic primary in the face of Mr. McCall's strong showing in polls, pledged financial help for Mr. McCall's campaign, which is at a severe disadvantage to Mr. Pataki with three weeks left in the race.
Mr. McCall said Mr. Cuomo "has lived up to all the commitments he made to me, and I'm very pleased that he's done so."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Andrew M. Cuomo, left, and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton marching in the Columbus Day Parade on Fifth Avenue with H. Carl McCall. Below, Gov. George E. Pataki marching in the same parade. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times); (Michael Nagle/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARADES & MARCHES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); GOVERNORS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); BUDGETS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002 



443 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Before Congress Leaves 

 BODY:
With the country focused on Iraq, the Democrats keep complaining that they can't get any traction on economic issues despite widespread public concern about jobs, pensions and the sluggish economy in general. Here's a suggestion: In the few days remaining before Congress goes home to campaign, Democratic leaders should push as hard as they can for two measures that will bring economic benefits to the country and credit to those who secure their passage. Each will require some legislative gymnastics. Both could be successful. 
 The first and more important is to extend the temporary additional unemployment benefits program beyond its Dec. 31 expiration date, while at the same time restoring assistance to 1.3 million workers who have already exhausted or will soon exhaust their benefits. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York is among several sponsors of a bill that would achieve both objectives. It carries a $17 billion price tag, which isn't cheap, but there is no quicker and fairer way to put money in the hands of consumers at just the moment when they and the economy as a whole most need a transfusion. 
 Even notoriously conservative House Republicans are beginning to see the light on the unemployment compensation issue. Bill Thomas, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, will shortly bring to the House floor a measure extending the jobless benefits program into next year. But unlike the Senate bill, it provides no help to those whose benefits have expired or will shortly run out. It also comes attached to a larger bill that would provide an estimated $60 billion in various tax breaks for investors over the next 10 years -- people least in need of an immediate transfusion. The Senate should insist on its version if the two bills reach a conference committee.
One other measure also deserves prompt approval. It would provide some $5 billion in fiscal relief to state governments facing their most severe fiscal crisis in decades. Without help, they will soon have to start cutting essential programs like Medicaid. There is no comparable House bill, but it should not be impossible to get the House to accept some version of this useful measure in the horse-trading that takes place in the final weeks of a legislative session.
Theoretically, of course, the unemployment insurance and state fiscal relief measures could be delayed until Congress returns for a lame-duck session after the elections. What might be convenient for Congress, however, will be inconvenient indeed for unemployed workers and hard-pressed states that need the money. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MEDICAID (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (62%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002 



444 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Bush Says Attack in Bali Seems to Be Qaeda's Work
President Bush said that the bombing in Indonesia appeared to be the work of Al Qaeda and that the attack was part of a pattern of terrorist acts that included recent violence in Kuwait and Yemen. Taken together, he said, these incidents show that Al Qaeda is on the rise and will continue to be a threat to the United States. In Indonesia, the defense minister made that nation's most explicit acknowledgement to date that Al Qaeda was operating there. A1

Top Indonesian officials have begun to concede that their nation, the most-populous Muslim country, faces a terrorist threat. The government has brushed aside recent similar statements from its neighbors and the United States, but they are reluctant to undertake a crackdown that could inflame political and religious tensions. A12

Prices fell in financial markets across the region and there were calls for increased security for the oil and gas industry, the mainstay of Indonesia's already tottering economy. Indonesia's stock market was hit the hardest, with the main index plunging 10.4 percent. A12

U.N. Dispute Over Iraq Widens
The impasse between the United States and France over military action in Iraq has deepened in recent days after an effort to reach a compromise stalled, with the French insisting that the Americans must come back to the United Nations Security Council before they can use force, diplomats said. A1

President Bush and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel plan to discuss strategies to neutralize the threat of an Iraqi missile attack on Israel and to avoid the need for Israel to retaliate against Iraq itself in the event of a war, administration officials said. An official said meetings that begin today with Mr. Sharon's arrival in Washington would focus on plans for the United States to locate and destroy Iraqi missile sites in the initial phase of a war. A15

Britain Reasserts Ulster Rule
Britain took back political authority over Northern Ireland, saying it saw no other way to preserve a future for the province's elected government, which shares power between its Catholic minority and its Protestant majority. This is the fourth time in three years that the Northern Ireland Assembly has been suspended, putting the government on hold and allowing it to be restarted. A3

Kenya Party Split by Naming Of Kenyatta as Candidate
The party that has ruled Kenya since its independence was split after it named Uhuru Kenyatta, the son of the country's founder but a political unknown, as its candidate to replace President Daniel arap Moi. The selection prompted dissident members of the Kenya Africa National Union party to leave the party. A8

New Look at the Rosary
John Paul II is planning to broaden the saying of the rosary to honor other events in the life of Jesus. A10

NATIONAL A16-24

New Shooting in Virginia; As Manhunt Intensifies
A woman was fatally shot in the head outside a suburban Virginia store, sparking a highway dragnet for the roving sniper who has killed 8 people in the Washington area in the last two weeks, but there was no official confirmation that this shooting was linked to the others. A1

The van or car of the sniper operating in suburban Washington has surely been captured at least briefly by a government camera, one of hundreds set up to continuously record traffic on the highways and streets, but suspects are few because the cameras in use are outdated. A24

Education Law Threatened
Less than a year after passage of a sweeping overhaul that promised a new era of accountability in public education, federal, state and local officials are taking steps that threaten to weaken crucial elements of the law. A21

Dam Proposal Incites Feud
A proposal by a group of California environmentalists to drain the Hetch Hetchy Valley reservoir, a 300-foot-deep and eight-mile-long holding tank that serves San Francisco and its suburbs, has come under fire from City Hall, politicians, and the water establishment. A1

Gore on Campaign Trail in Iowa
Al Gore campaigned across Iowa on behalf of Democratic Congressional candidates, lacerating the record of President Bush and invoking his own disputed loss in Florida in 2000 as he urged Democrats to vote. A20

Congress Weighs Welfare Bill
Congress, facing an impasse on welfare, is weighing a three-year extension of the existing program, with tougher work requirements and more money for child care, lawmakers and the Bush administration officials said. A20

Maine Mayor Angers Somalis
An influx of more than 1,000 Somali immigrants in the last 18 months into Lewiston, Me., a city of 36,000, has created tensions that became public when Mayor Laurier T. Raymond Jr. wrote an open letter asking them to stop others from coming. A16

Bush to Tackle Tax Question
Administration officials said the White House will soon begin reviewing specific options to overhaul the federal tax system, edging into one of the most politically volatile of all economic issues. A18

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

A Season of Desolation For New York Sports Fans
It is only mid-October, a time when championships, or at least hopes for them, are usually ripening, and it already feels like this could be the longest, loneliest sports season in 15 years. But in perhaps the most alarming measurement of the city's sense of sporting desolation, fans searching for a local winner may be forced to turn to New Jersey. A1

Parade Without Bloomberg
The Columbus Day Parade crawled up a brilliantly sunny, crisp Fifth Avenue like a society dinner, with fine music and fabulous gowns and hearty badmouthing of people who were not there. As he had promised, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg did not attend the parade, a show of protest over organizers' outrage with his having invited two stars of the HBO mob drama "The Sopranos" to join him on the march. B1

Uphill Battle for a Candidate
With the latest polls now showing him about 20 points behind, William E. Curry Jr., Connecticut's Democratic nominee for governor, is working without the three things that political analysts say could put him within striking distance of Gov. John G. Rowland: money, loyalty and, rather conspicuously, Bill Clinton. B5

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Health & Fitness F5

FASHION B11

ARTS E1-10

Sam Shepard the Fiction Writer
Sam Shepard is in New York not as a playwright or actor, but in a less familiar role as a writer of fiction. He has a new book, "Great Dream of Heaven," a collection of short stories. E1

SPORTS D1-7

Giants Win National League
San Francisco defeated the St. Louis Cardinals, 2-1, to win the National League Championship Series and advance to the World Series against Anaheim. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Court Opinion in Divorce Case Reveals Firm's Secrets
Closely guarded financial secrets of the accounting firm Ernst & Young, a private partnership, have been disclosed in the divorce proceedings of its new chief executive. The disclosures are almost certain to be of interest to competing firms. C1

Resurgence of Family Sitcoms
For years, the family comedy, a staple of network television, has been seen as a creaky relic in a state of decline. But the new television season has seen a lot of conventional sitcoms claim high ratings in the weekly Nielsen poll. C1

Brazil Raises Interest Rate
Brazil's central bank surprised investors by raising overnight interest rates by 3 percentage points, to a three-year high of 21 percent, in an effort to halt the decline of the nation's currency and keep short-term investment in the country. C1

Ill-Fated Investment in Enron
Months before the star money manager at Alliance Capital Management bought millions of Enron shares last year, the firm's energy analyst had downgraded the stock and sold the holdings from a fund she managed. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

OBITUARIES A25

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: Terror's calling card in Bali; before Congress leaves; you call that a debate? Pluto's plight.
Columns: Paul Krugman, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B4
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); RELIGION (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (63%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); KENYA (93%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); KUWAIT (92%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002 



445 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: In Senate Race, Textiles, Tobacco and Tart Words 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: RALEIGH, N.C., Oct. 14 

 BODY:
They held a debate between North Carolina's candidates for the United States Senate today, and nobody came. Nobody even knew where it was going to be, exactly, or on what day, or at what time.
 Nobody, that is, except the candidates, Elizabeth Dole and Erskine B. Bowles, the two television anchormen who moderated the lively 58-minute-long exchange and whoever else was in on the big secret. (Rumor had it there was actually a small audience of family members and friends.) 
 When it finally was shown tonight on videotape on 16 television stations across the state, it proved to have been a zesty match, focused on getting the economy moving again, particularly on aiding North Carolina's struggling tobacco farmers and textile industry.
Mr. Bowles, the former chief of staff to President Bill Clinton, attacked Mrs. Dole for opposing minimum-wage increases, paid family medical leave and civil rights legislation. Mrs. Dole, the former transportation secretary, Red Cross president and Republican presidential aspirant, chided Mr. Bowles for the tone of his campaign commercials and waved a blank sheet of paper she said constituted his plan to save Social Security.
Mrs. Dole pointedly linked Mr. Bowles to Senators Hillary Clinton, Edward M. Kennedy and the majority leader Tom Daschle, who make up the closest thing to an unholy trinity for conservative Southern voters. And Mr. Bowles boasted that he had lived his whole life in North Carolina and worked here too, except for those five years in Washington -- prompting Mrs. Dole to acknowledge, "You can't run the Red Cross from Salisbury," her birthplace south of Winston-Salem.
But for the most part, the encounter was far more civil than either candidate's television advertisements of late, which have nearly reached the saturation point since the long-delayed primary a month ago finally let loose the fall campaign.
Mrs. Dole repeated her pledge not to raise taxes, and Mr. Bowles again demurred, calling it a gimmick. He pledged instead to eliminate the estate tax permanently for family farmers and small businesses. He positioned his stance on broad-based tax cuts as a matter of choices, warning, "We are looking at deficits as far as the eye can see."
"I'm a true fiscal conservative," he said. "And if I'm presented with a choice between freezing the tax rate for the richest one percent of Americans and a prescription drug benefit, I'm going to freeze the tax rate."
Mrs. Dole pounced: "Now, Erskine is for, candidly, a tax increase," she translated, arguing that business executives and others have planned for their tax cuts and would feel a freeze as an increase.
The two also tussled over which of them would be the more forceful advocate for North Carolina's tobacco farmers, who are seeking buyouts in exchange for switching from quotas and price supports to a more market-driven system.
Mrs. Dole repeatedly claimed authorship of a bill to provide $8 a pound to tobacco farm owners and $4 a pound to growers, while Mr. Bowles, who said he supported similar legislation, insisted Mrs. Dole's bill was really written by the retiring Senator Jesse Helms, whose seat they are fighting to fill.
Mr. Bowles argued, too, that his role in reaching an agreement on a balanced budget while in the Clinton White House showed he was more capable of getting a tobacco buyout enacted. "You're going to have to get the Midwest, the dairy farmers from the Northeast and their senators, the health care groups -- just like I did in the balanced budget -- to get something done," he said.
That this debate ever happened, metaphysical questions aside, was a surprise that roiled North Carolina's news media, particularly a group of 25 television stations that had agreed to hold a live debate next Saturday, provided it was the first of the campaign. When two Raleigh-Durham network affiliates announced they would hold this debate, the other group canceled the Oct. 19 debate.
When it was all over, aides to the candidates revealed that the debate had been held in an auditorium at Meredith College here late this morning. As to the veil of mystery that had shrouded the event all weekend, the campaigns insisted it had just been a matter of scheduling. They were unable to agree on a night for a live, prime-time debate, and decided to tape it early in the day, they said. Why not let the public and other reporters attend the taping? "We wanted to maintain the integrity of the debate," said Mary Brown Brewer, Mrs. Dole's spokeswoman. 
Susan Lagana, Mr. Bowles's spokeswoman said, "We didn't want people listening to the TV or the radio and being told what to think before they saw the debate."
Just how many people saw it, of course, remains to be seen.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elizabeth Dole and Erskine B. Bowles yesterday in Raleigh, N.C., as they prepared to face off for a taped debate that was later televised. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TOBACCO FARMING (88%); CONSERVATISM (87%); TAX LAW (85%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); FAMILY (75%); TEXTILES (74%); FAMILY FARMS (74%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); ESTATE TAX (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); FAMILY LEAVE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TRENDS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); MINIMUM WAGE (53%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) ELECTIONS; RECORDINGS (VIDEO); DEBATING; TELEVISION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) 

PERSON: ELIZABETH DOLE (91%); ERSKINE BOWLES (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (71%); TED KENNEDY (58%); TOM DASCHLE (58%) HALBFINGER, DAVID M; DOLE, ELIZABETH H; BOWLES, ERSKINE B 

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (90%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NORTH CAROLINA

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002 



446 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Forrester on Defensive for Old Newspaper Columns 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: PLAINSBORO, N.J., Oct. 14 

 BODY:
Douglas R. Forrester, New Jersey's Republican nominee for the United States Senate, found himself on the defensive today about several newspaper columns he wrote more than a decade ago opposing drunken-driving checkpoints, criticizing New Jersey's ban on assault weapons and saying that Atlantic City had "the subtle beauty of a streetwalker."
 In a 1991 column, Mr. Forrester, who has made his support for military action to oust Saddam Hussein a centerpiece of his Senate campaign, urged Americans to forgive the Iraqis who tortured American prisoners. 
 Between 1989 and 1993, Mr. Forrester wrote nearly 200 columns for the weekly local newspaper in his hometown, most of which mused on topics as innocuous as Mother's Day, ice cream or the time Mr. Forrester was forced to kill a shrew in his bathtub. 
A handful of the columns featured Mr. Forrester espousing provocative opinions on more substantive political issues. In October 1992, after New Jersey passed the nation's first assault weapons ban, Mr. Forrester wrote that the case for banning semiautomatic weapons was "hard to document, let alone prove" and he derided the law as political pandering.
In 1990, he said he opposed checkpoints for drunken driving as a "gross violation of proper governmental boundaries." In May 1991, he described a visit to Atlantic City that he said left him depressed and "feeling that I had cavorted in the unclean waters of a toddler's wading pool."
During his nine months on the campaign trail, Mr. Forrester has never mentioned his tenure as an unpaid columnist for the defunct West Windsor-Plainsboro Chronicle (circulation 3,000), and the existence of his writings was little-known in political circles until The Star-Ledger of Newark published excerpts from several columns on Sunday. Since then, Democrats have begun distributing them to reporters and to advocacy groups that promote gun control and laws to restrict drunken driving, saying they prove that Mr. Forrester is a conservative extremist who is out of step with New Jersey's generally moderate electorate. 
Mr. Forrester's campaign has tried to prevent the columns from mushrooming into a major campaign issue. When questioned by reporters, Mr. Forrester said that he now supports a ban on assault weapons and thinks Atlantic City has finally received its long-overdue renovation. But he said he still believes sobriety checkpoints are an intrusive way to enforce drunken-driving laws.
His campaign manager, William Pascoe, said that at a time when the nation is on the brink of war, voters are likely to have little interest in columns Mr. Forrester wrote more than a decade ago.
"We don't have to worry about this being a distraction," Mr. Pascoe said, "because the voters of New Jersey want to hear what people are going to do to strengthen national defense and fight terrorism, strengthen our economy and get a prescription-drug program through Medicare. If Frank Lautenberg thinks he can pull the bait-and-switch with voters on this, he's barking up the wrong tree," he said, referring to Mr. Forrester's opponent, Frank R. Lautenberg. 
The discovery of Mr. Forrester's writings is nonetheless likely to complicate his campaign. Since Senator Robert G. Torricelli dropped out of the race two weeks ago, Mr. Forrester has sought to focus the campaign on the issues of national security and terrorism, so his writings are likely to draw attention to the issues of gun control and drunken-driving policy -- political terrain that New Jersey Democrats consider their home turf.
Mr. Forrester has also been trying to define himself as a moderate to New Jersey voters, half of whom say they do not know enough about him to form an opinion, according to recent polls. So his campaign strategy did not seek to highlight his conservative position on gun control.
Political analysts say it is unclear how voters will react to Mr. Forrester's columns. Cliff Zukin, a pollster and public-policy professor at Rutgers University, said that Mr. Forrester has focused his campaign on so few issues that his newspaper columns will at the very least offer voters a deeper understanding of his political philosophy.
"On one level, I think this means that Forrester is an interesting, complex character," Professor Zukin said. "But New Jersey is more pro-gun control than most states. To not be in favor of an assault weapons ban in New Jersey is way out of step with our culture. And with a sniper running around Washington, this issue is on people's minds, so that's unfortunate timing for Mr. Forrester."
While Mr. Lautenberg's aides were gleefully distributing the columns, the candidate himself made only passing reference to Mr. Forrester's recently unearthed writings. Speaking at a center for the elderly in Hamilton, where he signed a pledge to protect Social Security, Mr. Lautenberg described Mr. Forrester as an extremist who has avoided revealing his position on many important issues.
"Now we find out he's against drunken-driving checkpoints," said Mr. Lautenberg, who wrote the law that used federal transportation funds to encourage states to raise the drinking age from 18 to 21. "What's next?"
Mr. Lautenberg's campaign manager, Tom Shea, made a particular point of passing along a March 21, 1991, column headlined "Forgive Your Enemies," in which Mr. Forrester argued that Americans should forgive the Iraqis who tortured four American journalists who were held captive during the Persian Gulf war. Mr. Forrester has repeatedly criticized Mr. Lautenberg, a World War II veteran, as being soft on defense and voting against the gulf war resolution.
"These columns show you what Doug Forrester really thinks, as opposed to what he says when he's campaigning," Mr. Shea said. "Guns do nothing. Drunk driving do nothing, Terrorism do nothing. He's do-nothing Doug."
Mr. Forrester said that he expected that Democrats would try to use the columns to distort his current policy positions, but he doubted that they would succeed.
"I'm concerned about those things, but I trust that New Jerseyans will see through that," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Frank R. Lautenberg signed a pledge at a center for the elderly in Hamilton, N.J., yesterday to oppose the privatization of Social Security. (Steve Hart for The New York Times); Douglas R. Forrester, who campaigned in Moorestown, N.J., yesterday, was confronted about opinions in newspaper columns he wrote long ago. (David Hunsinger for The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WRITERS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); FIREARMS (77%); TERRORISM (73%); PROSTITUTION (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (70%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002 



447 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Terror's Calling Card in Bali 

 BODY:
The weekend massacre at an Indonesian nightclub on the idyllic island of Bali, apparently the work of Al Qaeda and local allies, is a horrifying reminder that Islamic extremists who take aim at America and the West may be on the run but are not defeated. Even as the Bush administration readies for confrontation with Iraq, it must take new steps to combat a resurgent international terrorist threat with no single address or state sponsor.
 Most of the nearly 200 people killed and hundreds others injured on Saturday were foreign tourists, but Indonesia has been badly hurt as well. Its sense of security has been jolted, its stock market is reeling and Bali's economically important tourist industry faces ruinous free fall. 
 This was the latest and deadliest of several recent assaults. Together they offer evidence that Al Qaeda and its allies have survived the war in Afghanistan and are regrouping to organize new strikes. Two weeks ago Kuwaiti terrorists opened fire on American marines who were in the country for joint exercises with the Kuwaiti military, killing one of them. One of the assailants left behind a tape pledging allegiance to Osama bin Laden. Yesterday more gunfire was directed at American troops in Kuwait. Late last month a French oil tanker was set ablaze off Yemen in what Paris believes was a terrorist attack. Meanwhile a new tape by Osama bin Laden's top deputy, Ayman al-Zawahiri, has begun circulating. American authorities believe it was recorded recently.
A reactivated Qaeda is a threat America cannot afford to ignore, as President Bush acknowledged yesterday. An array of different strategies will be needed, including heightened cooperation with foreign governments, police and military forces and financial monitoring agencies. Fighting loosely linked and mobile terror cells is an entirely different operation from invading Iraq. Mr. Bush said that the two could be done simultaneously, and perhaps they can. But fighting terror is partly a battle for Muslim hearts and minds. A war against Iraq is likely to make it harder.
Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim country, presents one of the toughest challenges. Law and order are extremely fragile in the sprawling archipelago, while its brutal and corrupt armed forces are politically and professionally unreliable.
Thus far, President Megawati Sukarnoputri has failed to acknowledge the seriousness of the Islamic terror threat. She has also been unwilling to take the steps needed to force the army to become more accountable, and the Bush administration has been reluctant to pressure her to do so. This must now change. Until Jakarta shapes up its policies and security forces, it will be difficult for Washington or anyone else to halt Al Qaeda's inroads there.
The United States continues to run up against conflicts between its desire to bolster its allies in the Islamic world and the need to take a stand against corruption and anti-democratic governments. In Pakistan, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, a crucial American ally, has isolated himself through high-handedness and thwarting of constitutional procedures. As a result he emerged from last week's legislative elections in a weakened position, not only in relation to the secular parties he unwisely tried to stop, but also to a strengthened Islamic fundamentalist political movement. 
The war against terror requires Washington to build and lead a broad coalition, using diplomatic as well as military tools, and hold it together for many years to come. It is unclear how war with Iraq will affect this endeavor, but the events of the last few weeks are a reminder that it is likely to make things harder rather than easier. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (93%); AL-QAEDA (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RELIGION (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); ARMIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (76%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (75%); IRAQ WAR (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); TOURISM (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); CORRUPTION (60%) TERRORISM; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (77%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (58%) UNITED STATES (98%); INDONESIA (96%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); FRANCE (77%) INDONESIA; BALI (INDONESIA); IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002 



448 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: Uncertain Times: Impulse Buyers Replace Ticket Subscribers 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
The season subscription plan, which for generations has balanced the books of symphonies, nonprofit theaters and opera and ballet companies, seems to be losing favor with audiences around the country as single-ticket sales increase in popularity. 
 This trend, exacerbated by the economic slowdown, may have enormous effects on what is presented, who attends and how performing arts groups manage their budgets. 
 In classical music, more seats are being sold overall -- 32 million attended the symphony nationwide last season, up from 27 million a decade ago -- but for shorter series and on shorter notice, often through the Internet. 
People used to buy 12 to 24 concerts as much as six months in advance for classical and opera productions. Now they often buy four or five concerts at a time, or the occasional single ticket. 
"More people are attending than ever before, but they're buying in different ways," said Jack McAuliffe, chief operating officer of the American Symphony Orchestra League.
Some arts executives cite economic uncertainty, hard times and the possibility of war as reasons for the shift; others blame increasingly cluttered lives and a reluctance to plan ahead. 
Whatever the cause, the bottom is falling out of the way performing arts organizations do business. Historically arts groups depended on season ticketholders as a foundation on which to build single-ticket sales, cover production costs and guarantee a minimum audience. Now people's short-term buying habits have made revenue unpredicatable and precarious. This has forced performing arts companies to rethink how they allocate marketing dollars, plan their seasons and approach customer service. 
"There is a general tendency to make decisions later," said Robert J. Harth, the executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall. "Growing up, people talked about the next 5 or 10 years. Now they plan for the weekend. That culture has changed a lot."
While five years ago the Baltimore Symphony sold 85 percent of its seats through subscriptions and the rest as single tickets, now subscription sales have dropped by 5 percent, while single-ticket sales have increased by 46 percent. 
Addressing the growth in single-ticket sales, the Houston Grand Opera has begun spacing out its performances to allow word-of-mouth to spread. And at nonprofit theaters, single-ticket income over the last two years has outpaced subscription sales for the first time.
"It's a change in the way we live," said Ben Cameron, executive director of the Theater Communications Group, which represents nonprofit theaters in the United States. "A lot of theaters are asking, 'How do we cultivate a long-term relationship with people without subscriptions?' "
At the Metropolitan Opera, subscribers are down 9 percent since last year, but they bought longer series and more expensive seats. The Met also saw a surprising burst in single-ticket purchases for "Turandot," the second production of its season; more than $20,000 worth of tickets were sold in one day, compared with a previous high of between $10,000 and $12,000.
"There is a lot of uncertainty about terrorism, safety, the stock market, corporate scandals, Iraq," said Stewart Pearce, the Metropolitan Opera's assistant manager for finance, planning and marketing. "People are less willing to make big financial commitments."
In the opera world the trend's implications are considered a mixed bag. The change leaves opera companies living hand to mouth, but it may also mean that more people consider opera casually, as they would a movie or a play. "People are shopping from a broader menu of activities," said Marc Scorca, president of Opera America, an advocacy group. "Sometimes they're selecting opera."
Still, arts groups used to have a sense of how a performance would sell at least a month in advance. Now, many arts executives say, that period is 2 weeks to 48 hours.
To adapt to the new short-term buying patterns, arts programmers say they need to advertise show by show, rather than focus on selling full seasons as they used to. 
But luring single-ticket buyers costs more because a company must advertise more heavily. And subscribers tend to develop an institutional loyalty and to become donors.
The move toward picking and choosing individual performances can also influence programming, arts executives say. Without a solid subscription base, companies might feel loath to present unknown or experimental work. "Not all programming is equally popular, and subscription sales have been a way to introduce audiences to work with which they are not familiar," Mr. Scorca said. "It's more precarious to program unknown work because you just don't know whether the public will rally around that work when the time comes."
To attract and maintain a loyal following, concert halls and theaters are offering customer-friendly accommodations like early curtain times, more flexible exchange policies and a greater variety of subscription packages.
Lyric Opera of Chicago, which has more than 36,000 season ticketholders, offers 22 series and a vast array of prices. One can see all eight operas in a season for as little as $184 (sitting in the balcony on weekdays) or for as much as $1,168 (on weekends seated in the orchestra). Because people are buying opera tickets more selectively, Lyric can count on strong sales for "La Traviata," while Handel's seldom-performed "Partenope" presents more of a challenge, said Susan Mathieson Mayer, director of marketing and communications for the company. "I think this is going to be a year when people hold onto their money longer and are choosier about what they want want to see. They will want to experiment less, to stick with the tried and true."
The Boston Symphony Orchestra, with more than 24,000 subscribers, has begun to sell an increasing number of 6- to 7-concert series, down from series of 20 to 23 concerts over the last decade. That symphony's four-year-old Web site, which sells only shorter subscriptions and single tickets, has been generating about $5 million in annual revenue. "Lifestyles have changed," said Mark Volpe, managing director of the orchestra. "We're rethinking how we package our subscriptions." 
At the Roundabout Theater Company, the largest nonprofit theater in New York with 45,000 subscribers, people are increasingly opting to subscribe to four- or five-play series rather than to the season's full seven. Also, subscribers can cancel at any time and reschedule for another performance, a longstanding policy that Roundabout officials say is partly responsible for their company's popularity. 
Similarly, the New York Philharmonic is trying a 7:30 curtain time this season instead of the traditional 8 p.m. start. On Broadway, where theaters have been struggling with a decline in advance ticket sales, several prominent producers -- including Disney and Dodger Theatricals -- are introducing a 7 p.m. curtain on Tuesdays this winter. 
Classical arts groups are also re-examining their exchange policies. At the Met, for example, subscribers could formerly only exchange tickets for two performances in their series and only if they had seen one of the operas the previous season. Now subscribers can exchange any number of performances in their series and the productions do not have to be ones they saw recently. "People used to select their dates and live their lives around the series," Mr. Pearce said. "Now they want more flexibility."
Responding to the economic downturn, the Met has also frozen ticket prices for its lower-end seating and raised other seats by less than in previous years, although the price of its prime seats is up $15 over last year to $280, or eight shows for $2,240. 
The move away from traditional subscription purchases can also affect the number of concerts an institution presents each year. "Inventory is an issue," Mr. Harth of Carnegie Hall said. "How many concerts do you put out there?" 
This consideration weighs particularly heavy on Carnegie Hall as it prepares to open a third stage, the Judy and Arthur Zankel Hall, next September. Similarly, Jazz at Lincoln Center would also seem to have reason for concern, given that it is building three stages in the new AOL Time Warner Center at Columbus Circle. But Hughlyn F. Fierce, the president of Jazz, said that his company's subscriber base has increased about 15 percent to 1,675 from 1,400 and that he was not worried about empty seats. 
The competition for subscribers is particularly intense in New York, with its abundance of cultural options, and this is heightened by tight economic times. "If you hold three or four subscriptions, it's no different than charitable giving," Mr. Harth said. "You will drop a couple off or lower all gifts because you can't quite afford it."
The events of Sept. 11 exacerbated people's reluctance to plan ahead, cultural groups say. And while people have moved past a tendency to cocoon after the attacks, some arts executives predict that a war would revive that response. 
"The pace of ticket sales has picked up," Mr. Pearce of the Met said. "But if we go to war with Iraq, I'm not sure that's going to really matter. I do think it's going to be another tough year."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Subscription sales are down 9 percent over last year at the Metropolitan Opera, reflecting a trend experienced by other arts organizations. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); BALLET (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); MUSIC (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); OPERA (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); THEATER (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%) CULTURE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; OPERA; DANCING; MUSIC 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (57%); THEATER COMMUNICATIONS GROUP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA LEAGUE (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (57%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: POGREBIN, ROBIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



449 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Terror's Aftermath in Indonesia 

BYLINE:  By Sidney Jones; Sidney Jones is director of the Indonesia project of the International Crisis Group, a policy research organization.

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia 

 BODY:
After Sept. 11, there was a sense among Americans that the country had to come together for comfort, for protection and for rebuilding. The reaction in Indonesia to the Bali bombings has been very different, and it speaks to the lack of faith that Indonesians have in their own government. It also suggests that the United States and other nations with a significant presence in Indonesia should redouble efforts to strengthen political institutions here and demand accountability from government. Without more popular support, the war on terror here is not going to be won.
 In Bali itself, the overwhelming response has been anger at the army and police. "They tricked us into thinking Bali was safe, and look what happened," one caller said on a local talk show. If distrust of security forces is generally high around the country, it took a quantum leap in Bali after Saturday night. Policemen in Indonesia stand no chance of being turned into heroes the way New York's Finest were; the zero credibility of the two institutions on the front lines of combating terrorism does not make the government's task any easier. 
 In Aceh, on the northern tip of Sumatra, where a separatist rebellion has resulted in thousands of civilian casualties, a different kind of distrust was voiced. "It's appalling that a civilian site was targeted," a local lawyer told me. "But it's important not to jump to conclusions about who was involved."
He remarked that the army tends to blame Acehnese whenever a bomb goes off. He also cited the example of a local army commander who suggested Acehnese rebels were behind a recent attack in North Sumatra when it was clear from the beginning that the commander's own soldiers were responsible.
It used to be that if you wanted to bring down a business rival, a political opponent or an obstreperous neighbor, you could just spread the rumor that he was a Communist, and he would become an instant pariah. Indonesians are so jaded by political labeling that they are not apt to believe official statements about who may have been involved in the Bali attack.
In a town near Poso, Sulawesi, where a communal conflict between Muslims and Christians has raged for the last two years, a university lecturer said his colleagues were saying that the Bali blast showed the incompetence of civilian government. "It's very worrisome: they want Suharto back," he told me, referring to the former president. I got the same reaction Monday in a crowded minivan going from Pare-pare to Makassar in Sulawesi, a stronghold of the former ruling party, Golkar. "Whatever you say about Suharto, at least we felt safe," one passenger said.
With the assumption widespread that a Muslim organization is behind the bombing, there is now real alarm about escalating ethnic and religious violence and the government's ability to handle it. In Indonesia, there has been very little rallying around the president, as there was in the United States last year. On the contrary, if radio talk shows, politicians' statements and informal conversations are any guide, President Megawati Sukarnoputri's standing seems to have plummeted.
A Jakarta newspaper magnate had another reaction. In a televised discussion, he warned that the government would be making a serious mistake if it made fighting terrorism its main objective, at the expense of legal reform and ending corruption. Neither he nor the passengers in the minivan had any confidence in their government, but for very different reasons.
Extraordinary as this seems in the West, many Indonesians are convinced that the United States sponsored the Bali bombing in order to convince reluctant governments to join its war on terror and support an attack on Iraq. Hard-line Muslims like Abu Bakar Bashir -- said to be the head of Jemaah Islamiyah -- are not the only ones making this claim. The Bush administration's pressure on Indonesia to take action against Muslim terrorists, its policies in the Middle East and the presence of American troops in the Philippines' Muslim South have all fueled suspicions in conservative circles that Washington has an anti-Muslim agenda. Some Indonesians seem to believe that the only organization with the capacity to carry out such a devastating attack is the American government.
"American troops want to establish a presence in Indonesia," one commentator said on a television panel Monday night. "They'll establish a foothold by offering to help out with the investigation in Bali, and then we'll see the influx." If some in Washington think that the Bali blast will convert all skeptics to the need for more stringent antiterrorism measures, they'll need to reconsider.
In Jakarta, there has been an outpouring of sympathy for the foreigners killed, particularly for the many Australians who died. At the same time, if foreigners are worried about coming to Indonesia now, some Indonesians are also worried about having them in their midst.
Indonesia needs better governance at least as much as it needs improved security. The risk is high that Jakarta's reaction to the Bali bombing will be not only ineffective but counterproductive. Many advocates of political reform in Jakarta have expressed fear over the last two days that new antiterrorism legislation -- now being drafted by the Megawati government -- will be an Indonesian version of the draconian internal security laws used in Singapore and Malaysia.
This government has never lacked the laws to go after people reasonably suspected of planning criminal acts. But it has lacked the will to use them. To give the army and police more powers in a country widely castigated for its corrupt legal system and weak political institutions is to invite abuse.
On Oct. 27, the Consultative Group on Indonesia -- the main consortium of donor countries, led by the World Bank -- will hold its annual meeting to discuss how much aid to give to Indonesia. The group's meeting could send a powerful message about international confidence in Indonesia. Donors will be sympathetic to the need to bolster an already weak economy further devastated by the bombing. Given what ordinary Indonesians are saying about their own lack of confidence, however, the donors would do well to put governance at the top of their agenda.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (D. B. Dowd) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); POLITICS (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%) TERRORISM; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INDONESIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS 

PERSON: JONES, SIDNEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); SUMATRA, INDONESIA (73%) INDONESIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) INDONESIA; BALI (INDONESIA); IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



450 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: REGIONAL MARKET -- Hell's Kitchen; 
Where F-Stops Have Replaced Pit Stops

BYLINE:  By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
Now that Hell's Kitchen is dotted with high-rise apartment buildings with rents to match, the neighborhood is frequently referred to as Clinton. Yet despite the more dignified name, parts of the neighborhood -- within the shadow of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center -- have retained a blue-collar character. 
 Several streets in the area around the convention center abound with parking lots, auto parts stores, truck rental lots, vehicle inspection stations and other small businesses. West 35th Street between 10th and 11th Avenues is still suggestive of the old neighborhood, but with a notable difference. For at 529-535 West 35th, amid shops with metal shutters, stands a gleaming white stucco building that is more at home with f-stops than pit stops, even though the address -- and much of the present building -- had until recently been an auto body shop. 
 The new building is Splashlight Studios, designed to offer rental photographic and digital studios for the fashion and magazine industries. Three years ago, Henry Geddes and his wife, Anne Reno Geddes, learned that the auto body shop was for sale; certain that its 20-foot-high ceiling and column-free space could be turned into rental studios for professionals, they promptly bought it. The total cost of Splashlight Studios, including rebuilding most of the former auto body shop was about $8 million. 
Autos and trucks still roll into the building from time to time but not for tuneups or repairs. Instead, they are there to be photographed for magazine advertisements or television commercials. Motorcycles have come into the studios and can be taken to the top floor on an oversized elevator that Jeffrey Langsam, the architect, said was designed for that purpose. 
Open for three months, the 23,000-square-foot building, which measures 100 feet long by 100 feet wide, consists of two 20-foot-high floors with a total of five studio spaces and a mezzanine with offices and rooms for employees. They include a digital department that has its own imaging technology as well as a studio specially equipped for digital photography. If the rental of a digital lab includes a setup with cameras and computers, it comes with a technician.
The column-free studios, ranging from 1,200 to 6,200 square feet, can be partitioned or expanded, depending on space requirements, and can be rented for a day or however many days are required to shoot the commercials or photograph the ads. Rents range from $1,100 a day to $3,300. 
Customers can also rent equipment, including lights, wind machines, umbrellas, even cameras. It also has a small restaurant, mainly for renters who film for long hours, but it is expected to be open to the public for lunch in about a month. 
"Our studio functions as a kind of hotel," Mr. Geddes said. "People book into the studio and we take care of them for as long as they need some level of service."
A self-described former "wannabe fashion photographer," Mr. Geddes said he wanted most of all to own a professional photo studio, despite knowing that Manhattan already had many such studios. The Studio Guide 2002 supplement to Photo District News magazine lists 21 rental studios in Manhattan, including Splashlight. Nevertheless, Mr. Geddes said that he had long been confident that his studio would be successful if it was built from scratch to accommodate a range of studios of varying sizes. The Geddeses began looking for such a property near the convention center and the Fashion District, and eventually found the auto body shop. 
Mr. Geddes, who moved to the United States from South Africa almost five years ago, and his wife, who was born in the United States, bought the building. They chose Mr. Langsam as their architect because they had been pleased with his work on the renovation of their Greenwich Village apartment several years ago. They also hired GS Universal Construction of Manhattan.
Construction started in the late spring of 2000, but almost halted after Sept. 11. "I wasn't sure what to do, but by that time we were halfway through, so we just kept on," Mr. Geddes said. 
Splashlight has been kept reasonably busy so far. "It's been slower than we anticipated," Mr. Geddes said, "but considering the economic climate, we're grateful."
The structural steel on the roof and inside the auto body shop were retained, as was the brick facade, Mr. Langsam said, although the bricks were covered with stucco. The remainder was essentially made to order, including the many oversized windows to allow additional light into the building, and a 2,500-square-foot roof terrace for everything from receptions to outdoor shootings.
"Rather than come up with something slick, we were trying to keep the individual feel of the neighborhood," Mr. Langsam said of the design. 
"As time goes by this area will be built up and gentrified," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Splashlight Studios is at 529-535 West 35th Street between 10th and 11th Avenues. (Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times) Chart: "Data Update"Value of residential construction contracts, seasonally adjusted annual rate through September. Graph tracks contracts since 2000. NATIONAL IN BILLIONSSEPT. '01: $218.5JULY '02: 241.7AUG. '02: 246.7SEPT. '02: 247.9 (Source: F. W. Dodge/McGraw-Hill Construction)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE BODY & INTERIOR REPAIR SHOPS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); TRUCK & TRAILER RENTAL & LEASING (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE PARTS STORES (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (72%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (72%); VEHICLE INSPECTIONS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); INSPECTIONS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); PHOTOGRAPHY (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (61%) HOUSING; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RENTING AND LEASING 

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (90%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (90%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%)

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



451 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
German Funds Pour Money Into U.S. Properties

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
When the Commonwealth Tower just across the Potomac River from Washington in Rosslyn, Va., changed ownership in July for $106.7 million, the buyer was a German investment fund. And so was the seller.
 Recent changes to the regulation of some German funds and mortgage banking practices, intended to strengthen Germany's competitive position in global finance and to promote Frankfurt and Munich as investment hubs, are contributing to an increased flow of German capital into commercial real estate in the United States. 
 "The money is pouring into the United States," said Jerrold Barag, chief investment officer for Lend Lease Real Estate Investments, an international real estate services concern. Other factors include stable currency exchange rates, weakness in world equity markets and low interest rates that contribute to low returns from savings accounts and other forms of debt investing in Germany. 
"They're not looking for appreciation, they're just looking for the income," Mr. Barag said.
German investors have spent $3.4 billion, or a little more than 50 percent of the $6.4 billion in foreign capital that has been used to buy commercial real estate in the United States so far this year, according to Real Capital Analytics, a consulting and research firm based in Manhattan that tracks and tries to identify the buyers of properties worth $5 million or more. In all of 2001, the firm tracked only $5 billion worth of purchases using foreign capital.
The sale in Rosslyn, involving a 343,000 square foot building that is 92 percent leased to a dozen primary tenants, is "indicative of the transaction velocity and their market share," said Warren Dahlstrom, a broker in the Washington office of the commercial real estate services firm Cushman & Wakefield who worked on the sale.
"What these funds are doing is packaging them and selling them through some of the largest banks," Mr. Dahlstrom said.
The money enters United States real estate markets from Germany in two forms, closed-end funds and open-end funds. Closed-end funds own one to three assets, and shares are sold to high-income investors for tens of thousands of dollars. The investors must pay United States taxes, so their income of a few thousand dollars a year is taxed at a low rate, according Mr. Eckhardt of Ernst & Young. These funds are largely unaffected by the regulatory changes.
For open-end funds, which have been amassing capital as investors anticipate improved returns from new flexibility allowed by the regulatory changes, the tax advantages alone are meager, and they have not changed in more than a decade. The lack of tax advantages available to open-end funds indicates that their investors expect high returns for other reasons, including the new strategies available after the regulatory changes, tax experts said.
"The mutual funds do not go to the U.S. because of the tax treatment, they go because of the performance," said Thomas A. Eckhardt, a partner with the accounting firm Ernst & Young Germany who works in New York.
And they are finding more investors for their United States ventures. There are about 20 registered open-end mutual funds in Germany that are required to maintain significant levels of liquidity because their shares are publicly traded and immediately redeemable. By July 31, the funds had assets of 66.67 billion euros, or $65.7 billion, compared with assets of 50.81 billion euros, or $50.1 billion in the middle of 2001, according to Hans-Dieter Schulz-Gebeltzig, a partner who works in Frankfurt in the real estate practice of Linklaters, an international law firm based in London.
The open-end funds, most of which are managed by big German banks and insurance companies, are the primary beneficiaries of the changes, which became effective July 1. They were previously limited to investing no more than 20 percent of their assets in real estate outside the European Economic Area. The new law eliminates that limit, substituting a provision that the funds' exposure to currency fluctuations may not exceed 30 percent. It also allows them to acquire minority interests in joint ventures and to invest up to 49 percent of their assets in majority share investments instead of only 20 percent.
Because of these German regulatory changes, in the United States, "one, they will spend more money, and two, they will have more flexibility in the deals they do," said Jon Caplan, a senior director of Cushman & Wakefield in the United States who has traveled to Germany to study the funds' strategies.
In the United States, the closed-end funds are primarily represented by three companies, all affiliates of German financial companies that make their United States headquarters in Atlanta. One is Jamestown, which secures average investments of $50,000 from German investors to buy properties in the United States. The TMW Real Estate Group, the seller in the Rosslyn deal, is affiliated with TMW Immobilien of Germany, and it manages closed-end funds as well as commingled funds for institutional investors. It was one of those commingled funds, the U.S. Property Fund, that sold the Commonwealth Tower.
The buyer was KanAm Grund, an open-end fund represented in the United States by Westwind Capital Partners. Westwind was created in 2000 to feed office building deals to KanAm, a German financial company. For the last few decades, KanAm's activities in the United States have been mostly limited to providing capital to the Mills Corporation, the developer of suburban shopping malls. KanAm manages closed-end funds, and last year it became the first private company to secure a license to manage an open-end fund.
These companies have been placing German investment capital in real estate in the United States for about 20 years, but the flow of capital slowed for the better part of the 1990's, first as investors turned to real estate opportunities in the former East Germany after reunification and then as they turned to the stocks of technology companies.
There was a brief surge of investment in open- and closed-end funds from late 1998 until 2000, as the dollar appreciated against the euro and provided returns on the currency alone. That ended when the currency reached parity in mid-2000. It has resumed as the currencies stabilized concurrent with a decrease in interest rates and stock markets in the United States and Europe.
"The strategy is to bring the money over and get an income return that can be 400 basis points higher than savings rates in Germany," said Mr. Barag of Lend Lease, using a term that means four percentage points.
As the capital amasses in these funds, some brokerage firms in the United States expect to see fund managers take an interest in a more diverse range of properties, partly because diversification is a tenet of the regulatory changes.
Scott Latham, a senior director of Cushman & Wakefield, said he expected the funds to expand beyond single high-credit tenant office buildings in Midtown Manhattan and Washington to invest in multi-tenant properties in lower-tier markets.
Stephen D. McCarthy, managing director of Westwind, said his firm was not interested in single-tenant buildings at all, and that its purchase of the First Union Financial Center in Miami demonstrated that "we were willing to look outside of New York and Washington for the right asset in the right market."
David C. Pahl, a senior vice president of TMW, said that open-end funds would have difficulty marketing assets in second-tier markets to their investors in Germany. "They want to be able to identify with the tenants, they want to be able to identify with the city," Mr. Pahl said.
And Stephen J. Zoukis, a partner at Jamestown, said that brokers who expected German investors to bid on multi-tenant buildings in second-tier markets were "dreaming."
"The legislative change has been maybe overhyped," Mr. Zoukis said. The funds' own organizational documents specify their investment strategies, and even with an influx of capital, altered strategies will take some time to manifest themselves in transactions, he said.
Even so, the closed-end fund managers are anticipating escalating prices for assets that German investors find favorable.
"There will be more capital coming into the U.S.," said Mr. Pahl of TMW. "That just means more competition for everybody."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Commonwealth Tower in Rosslyn, Va., near Washington, was sold in July for $106.7 million to a German investment fund. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TAX CONSULTING (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); PROPERTY LEASES (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (72%); MARKET SHARE (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (55%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: REAL CAPITAL ANALYTICS; KANAM GRUND 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%)

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



452 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Gannett's Profit Climbs 52% on Strong Television Ad Sales 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: McLEAN, Va., Oct. 15 

 BODY:
The Gannett Company said today that its third-quarter profit increased 52 percent as advertising sales at its television stations rose and costs fell.
 Net income climbed to $265.6 million, or 99 cents a share, compared with $174.8 million, or 66 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Sales increased 4.2 percent, to $1.58 billion. The results were in line with Wall Street's expectations. 
 Gannett, the publisher of USA Today and 93 other daily papers, said sales were buoyed by demand for advertising on its 22 TV stations, while ad revenue at its newspapers rose for the first time this year. Newspaper publishers are striving to reverse last year's 9 percent slide in ad sales, the worst for the industry since 1938, according to the Newspaper Association of America.
"Gannett's report gives us yet more proof that the ad downturn has come to an end, not just in TV but newspapers," said Barton Crockett, an analyst at J. P. Morgan. "Gannett's newspapers are principally in smaller communities, which seem to be coming out of the recession sooner."
Gannett's television revenue jumped more than 24 percent, to $184 million from $148.2 million, helped by an increase in automobile and political advertising. Newspaper advertising revenue, adjusted for acquisitions, rose 1.9 percent, to $1 billion, after two quarters of declines.
"We are optimistic about the remainder of the year," Douglas H. McCorkindale, Gannett's chief executive, said on a conference call. "The trends we've seen in the third quarter appear to be continuing in the fourth quarter, particularly in television."
Shares of Gannett, based in McLean, rose $2.74, to $76.30.
Acquisition-related costs declined to $1.83 million from $61.3 million because of an accounting change, the company said. If Gannett had adopted the change at the start of 2001, the company's profit for the period a year earlier would have been $227.1 million, or 85 cents a share.
Lower newsprint costs and interest expense also helped results, the company said. Newsprint costs fell 23 percent for the quarter, while interest expense dropped 18 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NEWSPRINT (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) COMPANY REPORTS; TELEVISION; ADVERTISING; NEWSPAPERS 

COMPANY: GANNETT CO INC (98%); NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: GANNETT CO 

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (98%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%) SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



453 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Auto Workers and Daimler In Tentative Deal in Canada 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
Less than a half-hour before picket lines were set to go up at five DaimlerChrysler plants in Canada, the Canadian Auto Workers union said tonight that it had reached a tentative agreement with the company on a new three-year contract covering 13,000 workers.
 The deal, which will be put to a ratification vote on Sunday, comes after successful negotiations over the last month between the union and the Canadian units of the other two North American carmakers, General Motors and Ford. All three companies have agreed to new contracts that include wage increases of 3 percent in each of the first two years and 2 percent in the third, as well as improved benefits and substantial new investments in Canada. 
 The tentative agreement was announced just 25 minutes before the union's strike deadline of midnight. After predicting earlier in the day that a strike was all but inevitable, Buzz Hargrove, the union's president, said at a news conference tonight that DaimlerChrysler had agreed to "a massive new investment" to produce an unidentified new vehicle at Windsor, Ontario, starting in the fourth quarter of 2005. 
Mr. Hargrove said that the investment, totaling at least 600 million Canadian dollars ($378 million), would create "hundreds and hundreds" of jobs at the assembly plant as well as at parts facilities.
A spokesman for DaimlerChrysler could not be reached for comment.
DaimlerChrysler has two assembly plants in Windsor and one in Brampton, Ontario, as well as an aluminum castings plant in Toronto and a trim site in Ajax, Ontario. The Brampton line is the only source of Intrepid, Concorde and 300M sedans for the North American market. The parts factories supply DaimlerChrysler assembly lines in the United States as well as Canada.
The main point of disagreement was the future of the Pillette Road plant in Windsor, which makes Dodge Ram vans. During the last contract talks in 1999, DaimlerChrysler said that it would retool the plant for a new model after production of the Ram ended in 2003. The company said early last year, however, that in light of its revamping it had no new vehicle for the plant, which employs about 1,200 people.
Another sticking point was the company's proposal for more flexible work practices, including an end to a longstanding practice that gives workers at the Windsor plants the right to bid each year for any job on the basis of seniority.
The auto workers union had complained that Canadian plants were taking more than their fair share of job losses under DaimlerChrysler's North American restructuring plan. 
All three assembly plants in Canada have scheduled temporary shutdowns of one to seven weeks between now and Christmas, suggesting that DaimlerChrysler has few concerns about the effect of a strike on its other operations in the short term.
Jeff Schuster, director of North American forecasting at the J. D. Power & Associates consulting firm in Detroit, said a prolonged strike might threaten production of the new Pacifica utility van, which is set to be introduced in the first half of next year and will be assembled at the Windsor minivan plant. "They wouldn't want to jeopardize the launch of that vehicle," Mr. Schuster said.
The last strike in Canada was directed at General Motors in 1996. It lasted three weeks. The union has said that it has 51 million Canadian dollars ($32 million) in its strike fund.
For the first time, bargaining is not taking place simultaneously in the United States and Canada. The American plants of the three car companies are covered by a four-year agreement with the United Automobile Workers; it expires next year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The main point of disagreement was the future of a plant in Windsor, Ontario, said Buzz Hargrove, president of the Canadian Auto Workers. (Canadian Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (92%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); STRIKES (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); SEDANS (78%); ALUMINUM FOUNDRIES (73%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%) AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; STRIKES 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CANADIAN AUTO WORKERS; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

PERSON: SIMON, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%) ONTARIO, CANADA (92%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



454 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
A good World Series for California, and maybe for Wall Street.

BYLINE:  By Floyd Norris 

 BODY:
WHY is it that the World Series pits Northern California against Southern California only when Wall Street has been beaten down?
 For the third time in the four decades since a Golden State World Series became a possibility, there is a battle between North and South. And while those have been generally prosperous decades for investors, all three series have come at a time when Wall Street was reeling, when investors had doubts about the stock market and when brokerage firms were laying off investment bankers. 
 The first two north-south battles featured the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Oakland Athletics. This one will pit the Anaheim Angels against the San Francisco Giants.
The first series was in 1974, when the Athletics won their third consecutive championship. That October the economy was in recession, and the Dow Jones industrial average fell to its lowest level since 1962, amid widespread worry that the economy was permanently off the track.
It wasn't. Over the next 12 months, from the end of October through the end of the following October, the Dow rose 25.6 percent. The recession ended in the spring of 1975.
In 1988 came the second California series. By that time investors were starting to regain their nerve after the 1987 crash, but Wall Street was still having troubles and the New York economy was starting to show the effects of the decline in profits for the financial industry. Fears of recession were still alive, although one did not develop.
The Dodgers won that 1988 series. Over the next year, investors regained their nerve and the Dow rose 23.1 percent. There was no recession.
Two observations do not make a trend, of course. But in the 40 years since the Angels entered the American League, and made an all-California World Series possible, the average gain for the Dow in the year after a series has been 7.9 percent. Both of the years after California series rank in the top quartile of years.
Early this month, the Dow hit its lowest level since 1997. It has rallied sharply since then, much as it did at the end of October 1974. There are widespread fears of a double-dip recession and Wall Street is laying off investment bankers.
As any Californian knows, there is no love lost between the two halves of the nation's most populous state. The northerners think the southerners are not as cultured and stole their water. The southerners think the northerners are jealous of their success, and their weather. It is not immediately obvious why that quarrel should be featured in the World Series at 14-year intervals when financial markets have suffered. 
Nor, for that matter, is there any reason to think that anyone who takes such relationships seriously should be trusted with money to manage.
There was one other all-California series, but it did not involve the North-South divide.
In 1989, the two Northern teams squared off, with the Giants losing to the Athletics. So intense was that competition that the ground shook, and the series was delayed by a severe earthquake.
That series did not herald good times, either for Wall Street or the world. Over the next year, the Dow rose just 2.2 percent, as a recession arrived. There was war in the Mideast as Iraq first conquered Kuwait and then was driven out by armed forces led by the United States.
Looking at that series as a precedent, one could conclude that a new all-California World Series presages a war in Iraq. But, as we said, such forecasts are obviously not to be trusted.

GRAPHIC:  The Giants are owned by Peter A. Magowan, formerly chairman and chief executive, and still a director, of Safeway Inc., the grocery chain, and play in Pac Bell Park, whose name reflects a phone subsidiary of SBC Communications. Since the season started, Safeway is down 47 percent and SBC is down 37 percent, an average fall of 42 percent. The Angels are owned by Walt Disney and play in Edison International Field, named for the parent of the local electric utility. Disney is down 27 percent and Edison is down 47 percent, an average of 37 percent. Over the same stretch, the Standard & Poor's 500 index is down 23 percent. Those who bet on the teams this year did much better than those who bet on the companies most closely identified with them. FLOYD NORRIS No home field advantage . . . Graph tracks the daily closing price for SBC (Giants), Edison (Angels) and S. & P. 500 since baseball season began. . . . and the owners are not getting richer either. Graph tracks the daily closing price for Disney (Angels), Safeway (Giants) and S.& P. 500 since baseball season began. (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets) Photo: John Lackey of the Anaheim Angels. When two California teams have appeared in the World Series, the Dow has climbed significantly. (Reuters) Chart: "Winners on the Field, but Not Off"The companies associated with the two teams in the World Series have not had good seasons themselves, at least on Wall Street. The Giants are owned by Peter A. Magowan, formerly chairman and chief executive, and still a director, of Safeway Inc., the grocery chain, and play in Pac Bell Park, whose name reflects a phone subsidiary of SBC Communications. Since the season started, Safeway is down 47 percent and SBC is down 37 percent, an average fall of 42 percent. The Angels are owned by Walt Disney and play in Edison International Field, named for the parent of the local electric utility. Disney is down 27 percent and Edison is down 47 percent, an average of 37 percent. Over the same stretch, the Standard & Poor's 500 index is down 23 percent. Those who bet on the teams this year did much better than those who bet on the companies most closely identified with them. FLOYD NORRIS No home field advantage . . . Graph tracks the daily closing price for SBC (Giants), Edison (Angels) and S. & P. 500 since baseball season began. . . . and the owners are not getting richer either. Graph tracks the daily closing price for Disney (Angels), Safeway (Giants) and S.& P. 500 since baseball season began. (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); BASEBALL (94%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); BONDS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); LAYOFFS (56%) BASEBALL; WORLD SERIES; STOCKS AND BONDS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: ANAHEIM ANGELS (94%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (94%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (86%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (84%); OAKLAND A'S (83%) ANAHEIM ANGELS; SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS; LOS ANGELES DODGERS; OAKLAND ATHLETICS 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



455 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-13

Indonesia Was Warned Of Attack Plot, U.S. Says
The United States repeatedly warned the Indonesian government in the weeks before the bomb blast that killed more than 180 people in Bali that a group linked to Al Qaeda was planning attacks to kill Americans and other Westerners, Bush administration officials said. A1

U.N. Inspector Appeals to Iraq
The chief of the United Nations weapons inspectors, Hans Blix, appealed to Iraq to agree on all the practical plans for new inspections, but said the weapons teams would only return to Baghdad after the Security Council adopts a resolution giving them a new mandate. A14

Failed Hijacking in Sudan
A Saudi man armed with a pistol tried to hijack a Saudi Arabian Airlines jet carrying 204 people shortly after it left Khartoum, Sudan. Guards overpowered him and the plane returned safely to the airport, the airline and Sudanese officials said. A14

Hopeful Cease-Fire in Sudan
The Sudanese government agreed to a cease-fire with the rebels of the Sudan People's Liberation movement, a hopeful sign in the 19-year conflict that comes as negotiators for both sides resume peace talks this week in Kenya. Western diplomats cautioned that previous deals have been quickly violated. A6

Homecoming for 5 Japanese
Five Japanese, snatched off beaches by North Korean agents in 1978, bundled into bags and taken away by boats, returned to Japan for the first time. The five, who were pressed into service in North Korea as Japanese language and cultural tutors for spies by the Communist state, will visit Tokyo for one week with the permission of North Korea's government. A3

Israel May Withdraw Forces
Israel's defense minister suggested that the army might withdraw from a second West Bank city by the weekend, sounding a conciliatory note as Prime Minister Ariel Sharon arrived in Washington to meet with President Bush. A13

Heated War Over Water
Lebanon's plans to pump water from the Wazzani Springs, a major source of Israel's scarce water, has set off a new round of tension with Israel. Israel contends that Lebanon must consult Israel before pumping any water, a premise that Lebanon angrily rejects. A13

NATIONAL A16-21

Latest Shooting Offers New Clues in Sniper Case
Law enforcement officials said that the most recent killing by the Washington-area sniper had yielded more clues than earlier shootings, including license plate data and the first eyewitness accounts of an attack. A1

The Pentagon agreed to patrol the skies above the nation's capital with surveillance planes as the effort to catch the sniper widened. A18

The White House said that it had asked federal law enforcement experts to study whether creating a national computerized system for tracing bullets and shell casings to the guns that fired them would be an effective crime-fighting tool. A19

Investigating Immigrant Deaths
Authorities in Iowa began extracting and identifying the remains of 11 adults, believed to be either Mexican or Central American immigrants being smuggled into the United States, that were found inside a locked Union Pacific rail car. A1

Death-Row Clemency Hearings
A series of clemency hearings for nearly all the prisoners on Illinois' Death Row began, the first of nine days of hearings scheduled for 142 convicts pleading that their executions be replaced by life sentences -- or, in a handful of cases, that they be pardoned. A1

Battle for the Courts
Frustrated by Senate Democrats' blocking of conservative judicial nominees, President Bush is putting the issue at the core of his campaign efforts on behalf of Republican candidates, hoping to use it to return the Senate to his party's control. A21

Democrats' Economic Proposal
Representative Richard A. Gephardt set out a Democratic economic plan, calling for $75 billion in one-time tax cuts and $125 billion in new spending as part of a strategy to create more jobs and restore growth. A20

The Republican national chairman, Marc Racicot, said that he did not believe that a fall campaign based on the economy would hurt his party's Congressional candidates. A20

Ruling on Fetus Protection
A pregnant woman may use deadly force to protect her fetus even when she does not fear for her own life, the Michigan Court of Appeals has ruled. Legal experts say the decision has opened another front in the legal wars surrounding abortion. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-9

For 3, Claims of Innocence Meant More Time in Prison
Three of the five Harlem teenagers convicted in the 1989 rape of a Central Park jogger, who persisted in claiming their innocence, lost their best chance to reduce their prison terms because of it, according to records made public. The case has been reopened with new DNA evidence tying someone else to the attack. B1

Ruling for Patient Privacy
New York State's highest court ruled that prosecutors cannot demand hospital medical records when seeking wounded criminal suspects. B8

Pilot Training Eyed in Crash
Investigators looking at the crash of American Airlines Flight 587 have found information that has led them to focus more intensely on pilot training and performance. B4

EDUCATION B9

Boy Falls Into Elevator Shaft
A Bronx boy, 16, was critically injured when he slammed into a closed set of elevator doors, which suddenly opened, sending him falling three stories to the basement of his high school, the authorities said. B1

OBITUARIES C14-15

SCIENCE/HEALTH 

Smallpox Vaccine Risks Seen
A report on smallpox confirmed a small but significant risk that newly vaccinated people can infect others with the virus used in the vaccine. A15

Generic Drugs Encouraged
The $2 billion global fund to fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria will encourage poor countries to buy generic medicines instead of brand-name ones, its director said. A6

DINING F1-14

SPORTS D1-6

Court Fight Over a Baseball
The trial between two fans who claim to have grabbed Barry Bonds's record 73rd home run baseball began in San Francisco. A16

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Stocks Surge in Big Rally
Stocks soared almost 5 percent as investors celebrated upbeat earnings reports from two major financial institutions. The 378-point gain caps the biggest four-day rally in almost 70 years, in which the Dow Jones industrial average has risen almost 1,000 points. A1

Intel's Earnings Miss the Mark
Intel reported earnings that sharply missed Wall Street expectations. An analyst said the news should "short-circuit" the stock market rally. C1

Delta Beats Expectations
Delta Air Lines reported a deeper quarterly loss after a difficult summer but it beat analysts' expectations and Delta's stock rose 21 percent. C1

Mixed Outlook at G.M.
General Motors reported a net loss, but its operating earnings, excluding a write-down of its investment in Fiat, beat expectations. C1

ImClone Founder Pleads Guilty
Samuel D. Waksal, the founder of ImClone Systems, pleaded guilty to six charges stemming from his role in a flurry of stock sales that took place late last year. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

ARTS E1-12

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Shaping strategy with Israel; dangerous chickens; justice and the Central Park jogger case; the uninvited pest.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E10
TV Listings E11
Public Lives B2
Weather D7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); HIJACKING (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INSPECTIONS (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EYEWITNESSES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); AIRPORTS (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); AIRLINES (74%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (69%); TESTIMONY (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: SAUDI ARABIAN AIRLINES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (58%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (77%); TOKYO, JAPAN (77%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%) UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (95%); SUDAN (95%); INDONESIA (94%); IRAQ (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); LEBANON (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); KENYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



456 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: TERROR IN BALI: WARNING TO JAKARTA; 
U.S. SAYS IT TOLD INDONESIA OF PLOT BY TERROR GROUP

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ and RAYMOND BONNER 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
The United States repeatedly warned the Indonesian government in the weeks before the bomb blast that killed more than 180 people in Bali that a group linked to Al Qaeda was planning attacks to kill Americans and other Westerners, Bush administration officials said today.
 The American ambassador, Ralph C. Boyce, delivered the latest warning to President Megawati Sukarnoputri and her top advisers just a day before the bombing and gave her a deadline of Oct. 24 to act, the officials said. 
 The various warnings contained no details about where and when attacks might occur, they said. But Washington took the likelihood of an attack seriously, basing its judgment on Central Intelligence Agency questioning of a Qaeda operative, senior American officials said.
The operative, Omar al-Faruq, was detained in central Java in June and was turned over to the Americans but only started talking early in September. 
American officials reacted to his warnings about terrorist actions by shutting their embassies in Jakarta and some other capitals around the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks.
The officials said that because planning for attacks was made several months beforehand, Mr. Faruq had given what appeared to be credible information about assaults planned for Indonesia.
Indonesian officials had no comment tonight, but American officials said they had reacted before this weekend largely with demands for more concrete evidence of a terrorist plot and Qaeda activity. Since the weekend bombing, senior Indonesian officials have conceded for the first time that groups linked to Al Qaeda are active in their country, although President Megawati has not said so.
In its warnings to Indonesia, the United States said an attack would not necessarily have an official American site as its target, but perhaps one known to attract American civilians, a senior American official said.
"We told them: 'Wrap it up. Block it. Demonstrate that you are serious about eliminating the threat against us,' " the official said, declining to be any more specific about what action was expected.
If the government did not act by the time President Megawati was to see Mr. Bush at a meeting in Mexico in late October, the Indonesian leader was told, the United States planned to send a public signal that Indonesia was a terrorist haven by ordering all but the most essential American diplomats home, the official said.
In the aftermath of the Bali bombing, that is now happening. About 350 Americans connected with the United States Embassy -- about 100 diplomats and the families of all diplomats -- were ordered to leave the country by Friday, a State Department officer said.
About 100 American diplomats are to remain at the embassy in downtown Jakarta, which is heavily guarded and surrounded by new concrete barricades. Ambassador Boyce told departing diplomats at an outdoor meeting in the embassy courtyard today that their return would depend entirely on Indonesian government action to decrease the threat to Americans here.
American officials voiced concern that even in the face of the Bali attack, President Megawati lacked the resolve to take action against militant Islamic groups. She heads the world's most populous Muslim country but has a famously passive style and has been reluctant to cross her vice president, Hamzah Haz, and other prominent supporters of the groups.
In an effort to embolden her, and to convince her ministers of the terrorist threat, the United States invited Indonesian intelligence and police officials to interview Mr. Faruq. They were still interviewing him on Saturday night when the attack occurred, two American officials said.
One of the best-known Islamic groups, Laskar Jihad, announced today that it was disbanding. In a statement, it declared that its work in the province of Maluku, where its fighters had clashed with Christians, was completed.
It is not clear what role, if any, was played by the Indonesian government, which had no comment on the statement. An American official said that it was not clear what Laskar Jihad's intentions were and that the announcement needed "more study."
The leader of Laskar Jihad, Jafar Umar Thalib, was arrested in the spring and is currently on trial on charges of inciting violence in Maluku. There has been considerable debate among Western intelligence officials about whether Laskar Jihad has been used as a front for Al Qaeda in Indonesia.
It is more important to the United States, American officials said, that Indonesia act to break up Jemaah Islamiyah, or Islamic Community, a group described in detail by Mr. Faruq.
In particular, Washington would like the government to arrest Abu Bakar Bashir, the group's leader and intellectual inspiration.
Jemaah Islamiyah has long advanced the idea of an Islamic state in Indonesia and other parts of Southeast Asia. A few years ago, according to Western and Asian intelligence officials, Jemaah Islamiyah developed links and pooled resources with Al Qaeda.
Mr. Bashir, 64, the principal of an Islamic boys' boarding school in central Java, was described by Mr. Faruq as providing money, explosives and operatives for several terrorist acts, including an plan to blow up the American embassies here and in Malaysia, the officials said.
Immediately after the Saturday night bombing, Mr. Bashir blamed the deaths on the "arrogance" of the United States. In an apparent taunt to the central authorities to arrest him, Mr. Bashir said today that he would travel to Jakarta Wednesday to appear in court in a defamation suit he has brought against Time magazine over a recent article about reported Qaeda activity in Indonesia.
At the scene of the Bali attack, criminal investigators, who include specialists from Australia and F.B.I. officials, found what could be a key piece of evidence, a Western security official said.
The engine block of a Kijang vehicle, a popular Indonesian-made car, was found among the debris, the official said. 
The car was probably a rental vehicle, and if a serial number can be found on the engine block, the investigators will have a useful clue, the official said.
The explosion on Saturday night was caused by a car bomb using C4, a powerful plastic explosive that is manufactured in the United States and used by military forces around the world, he said. The C4 was used, he said, to set off a homemade bomb made of ammonium nitrate or TNT.
Work at the site of the bombing was made more difficult, officials familiar with the work said, because the wreckage was not properly cordoned off and experts found the ruins trampled -- and evidence therefore destroyed -- before they arrived.
So far, the Western security official said, it appears that a relatively small bomb went off in a bar near Sari's disco just moments before the huge explosion. About the same time, a man tried to hurl a bomb near the office of the honorary United States consul some miles away. The man ended up burning himself and may provide clues on the disco bombing, the security official said.
While Bush administration officials remain unconvinced that President Megawati will take serious action to reduce the terrorist threat, a leading Indonesian analyst said he believed that she would have no choice. "Maybe at last she might do it because her survival is at stake," said Yusuf Wanandi, the director of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, and a critic of President Megawati. "The economy will go down the drain if she does not act."
An estimated 40 million of Indonesia's 220 million people are unemployed. Foreign and domestic investment have fallen dramatically in the last year because of shaky security and are now expected to dry up.
The public in Indonesia, a vast majority of whom are moderate Muslims, has expressed shocked at the violence on Saturday. But there has also been widespread criticism of the United States. 
Callers to a radio talk show on Monday said Americans must take the blame for the calamity, although by far most of the foreigners who died in the blaze were Australians, followed by Britons and Germans.
The American Embassy said today that it was believed that two Americans died in the explosion. Three Americans are missing.
President Megawati has remained largely silent since Saturday night. She is part Balinese and has visited the grisly scene in the town of Kuta, which she told aides she knew well.
But she declined to talk on television about the horrors of what she had seen or to galvanize a sense of outrage. She left it to her defense minister, Matori Abdul Jalil, to emerge from a cabinet meeting on Monday and declare for the first time that "Al Qaeda is here" in Indonesia.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Abu Bakar Bashir has been accused of aiding terrorists. (Reuters)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (96%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (93%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; INDONESIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY; AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: FARUQ, OMAR AL-; MEGAWATI SUKARNOPUTRI (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BOYCE, RALPH C (AMB); PERLEZ, JANE; BONNER, RAYMOND; HAZ, HAMZAH (VICE PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); INDONESIA (95%) INDONESIA; BALI (INDONESIA)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



457 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: China Reshaping Military to Toughen Its Muscle in the Region 

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

 BODY:
A new generation of Chinese generals is fast reshaping China's bloated and outdated armed forces into a modern, integrated fighting force that is emerging as a regional power, according to Western experts. 
 For now, the generals' efforts are focused almost exclusively on assembling a credible threat to Taiwan, over which Beijing is determined to regain sovereignty. In the longer term, the goal is to create a force able to project the country's power well beyond its shores. 
 "They're not trying to get to Hawaii, but over time to establish a 200- to 300-mile projection capability, which is known as 'area and sea denial,' " said David Shambaugh, the author of "Modernizing China's Military," to be published this winter by the University of California Press. 
Before Sept. 11, China was often regarded in Washington as the most ominous potential military opponent on the horizon. While the terrorist threat has distracted America's attention, China's drive to achieve regional power status has not slackened. Mr. Shambaugh and many other Western analysts say that at its current pace, China will achieve air and naval superiority in the Taiwan Strait by the end of the decade. 
The Chinese military is a secretive and highly insular institution. Most of what is known in the West about its inner workings comes from Western specialists in government, academia and the military, who provided much of the information for this article.
Mr. Shambaugh said that the goal of China's generals was to turn the People's Liberation Army into a mobile and technologically competent force able to fight "limited wars under high-technology conditions." 
To reach that goal, the country is downsizing its military. An estimated 1.3 million soldiers have been demobilized in the last 15 years, and the People's Liberation Army is shifting from 40,000-to 70,000-man armies as its basic organizational unit to 15,000-man brigades. It is putting more money into training those soldiers, spending more time than ever on costly live-fire exercises and emphasizing coordination between its infantry and naval and air forces. 
China's navy does not have the aircraft carriers necessary to project its power very far, analysts say, but the army is mastering in-flight refueling of its fighter jets, critical to extending its reach beyond the country's shores. 
China is building a new generation of submarines, some of which are nuclear powered and capable of launching nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missiles. But most are simply intended to make America think twice about intervening in the region. The country is also close to deploying its own cruise missiles. Together with the new submarines, the missiles "will really change China's offensive posture," Mr. Shambaugh said. 
Still, China is a long way from posing a threat to the United States, military analysts say. Though it still has the largest standing army in the world, it has not yet begun the sort of buildup necessary to turn itself into a superpower, or even to challenge Washington's military presence in the region anytime soon. 
"I don't see these capabilities as the leading edge of a more comprehensive, long-term plan either to supplant U.S. military power in the Western Pacific or to challenge U.S. power on a global basis," said Jonathan Pollack, director of the strategic research department at the United States Naval War College. 
For one thing, it is too expensive. China's real spending on the military is probably double or triple its acknowledged $20 billion budget, eclipsing that of Russia and growing by more than 17 percent a year, analysts said. Even so, that money is dwarfed by America's nearly $400 billion annual outlay, and Beijing learned from the Soviet Union's demise that trying to match the United States militarily is an economically devastating game. 
Since China's military budget is devoted to salaries and general maintenance, and not to new weapons, the United States technological lead grows by the day. 
That is not to say that the country will not become a sizable presence in Asia demanding American attention. "The Chinese don't require equivalence with U.S. forces to make our future decisions about war and peace in the Pacific much more consequential," Mr. Pollack said. 
While no one is suggesting that China wants to extend its territory, it is seen as desiring greater influence over East and Southeast Asia. The country is increasingly dependent on imported oil, for example, and it wants to be able to defend strategically important sea lanes, which the United States could now easily cut. 
For all its recent steps, however, China has a long way to go to become a first-tier military power. 
For one, it lacks an arms industry to build its own high-tech weapons, forcing it to rely on costly purchases from abroad, primarily from Russia. By some estimates, it has spent an average of about $700 million a year since 1991 on expensive, high-profile acquisitions, including Russian fighter jets, guided-missile destroyers and quiet submarines meant to challenge United States aircraft carrier groups. But spending on such high-cost items would have to increase exponentially just to give the country a decisive military advantage in the Taiwan Strait in this decade. 
Even the Pentagon's latest assessment of China's military strength, published in July, says that China "lacks the technology and logistical support to project and sustain conventional forces much beyond its borders." The report says that attacking Taiwan alone would remain difficult for China throughout the remainder of the decade. 
The military's biggest challenge is integrating its newly acquired high-tech weaponry into comprehensive battle plans. Without coordinated battlefield defenses and the ability to conduct joint operations, for example, its new destroyers and other imported hardware are little more than expensive sitting ducks.
In the meantime, China is relying on a blunt instrument of military power: short-range ballistic missiles that it can manufacture itself. By most estimates, it now has about 350 missiles carrying conventional warheads facing Taiwan. 
The missiles are useful primarily as weapons of political terror and intimidation. Relatively inaccurate and with limited destructive power, they might serve to demoralize Taiwan's people but they are not seen as sufficient to win a military victory. 
Not that the missiles are ever likely to be tested in battle. Economic integration, particularly Taiwanese investment in high-tech industries on the mainland, have raised the cost of any conflict. Moreover, the diplomatic -- and by extension, economic -- cost of such an attack could devastate China's economy. 
But China remains interested in establishing sovereignty over territory it believes is rightly its own. 
After recovering Taiwan, China could turn its attention to the oil-rich South China Sea, where it has territorial disputes with several countries. 
"Once the Taiwan front is closed, we may turn to the South China Sea," said Shen Dingli, an expert on the Chinese military at Fudan University in Shanghai. He added that beyond the South China Sea, "we have a third issue to resolve," which is to recover the Diaoyutai Islands. China regards these as currently occupied by Japan. 
China clearly wants to be a global power, and its military modernization effort fits into that general framework. But realization of that ambition is far in the future, Western military analysts said. 
Even China's nuclear weapons program is moving slowly. China is developing solid-fuel rockets, mobile launchers, and miniaturized payloads for multiple warheads, but the country still has one of the least advanced nuclear arsenals among the world's nuclear-armed states. 
"China," Mr. Pollack said, "is beginning to emerge as a more potent power, and the U.S. and China need to come to a strategic understanding, because there will be many places where our interests and capabilities could bump into each other. But let's not make them out to be 10 feet tall."

GRAPHIC: Photo: China's military showed off its equipment in Tianjin in July. For now, the generals are focusing on assembling a credible threat to Taiwan. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); ARMIES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (74%); WRITERS (69%); TERRORISM (68%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

PERSON: SMITH, CRAIG S 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%) CHINA (96%); TAIWAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) CHINA; TAIWAN

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



458 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Intel Profit Is Far Short Of Forecasts 

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
Striking a sour end note to a day when the stock market rallied, the Intel Corporation, the world's largest maker of computer chips, reported earnings that sharply missed Wall Street expectations. The company said its fortunes were not likely to turn around next quarter, and that it was not seeing signs of a larger economic recovery.
 "This should unfortunately short-circuit the rally -- big time," said Charlie Glavin, an analyst with ThinkEquity Partners, an investment research firm. 
 For its part, Intel attributed its performance to the fact that demand for semiconductors was on the low end of seasonal patterns and also to the company's increasing difficulty in finding ways to cut costs to cope with the lackluster economic conditions. 
Intel said that despite the weakness in its financial returns, it pushed ahead with the introduction of 18 new semiconductor products during the quarter and gained share in several crucial markets. 
Still, during the third quarter, sales were $6.5 billion, which was on the low end of the company's earlier projections. Its profits pro forma -- which excludes acquisition-related costs -- were 11 cents a share. That was 2 cents lower than the pro forma consensus projections of Wall Street analysts, who had been projecting sales of $6.9 billion.
The sales for the quarter were just 3 percent higher than the company had during its second quarter -- low by historical standards.
But the number that stood out both for Intel and the analysts who follow it were its gross profit margins, which measure a company's profits after subtracting the cost of producing goods. That figure was 49 percent, on the low end of the company's earlier estimates. In more profitable times, Intel's gross margins had been in the high 50's, and even the low 60's.
Andy Bryant, the chief financial officer, said in an interview that the company had hoped to improve its gross margins but had been unable to cut costs as much as it intended -- and as much as it had been able to in previous quarters. "We were looking to take 3 to 4 percent out of manufacturing," Mr. Bryant said. "We got next to none. We finally hit the wall."
The company projected that its gross margins for the current quarter -- the company's fiscal fourth quarter -- would remain around 49 percent. And the company said that its sales for the fourth quarter would be $6.5 billion to $6.9 billion, which, even at the high end, would represent historically modest growth. "What we're seeing is the low end of seasonal demand," Mr. Bryant said.
He said that as part of a continuing effort to reduce its work force, the company plans to cut 4,000 of its 82,000 jobs during the current quarter. 
"The economy is not recovering, at least in our industry," Mr. Bryant said, adding that "until we see momentum with economic recovery," the company will remain vigilant about keeping costs down. 
"These numbers are very disappointing," said Douglas K. Lee, an analyst with Banc of America Securities.
In particular, Mr. Lee and other analysts expressed concern about Intel's gross margins. Mr. Glavin, from ThinkEquity Partners, said the sluggish margins showed that Intel was having trouble finding new places to cut costs.
"They've been in a cost-cutting mode for so long that it's getting tough for them to cut any more without getting bone," he said, adding that this "shows how lackluster the market is right now."
Mr. Glavin said Intel's quarterly returns might also give investors pause for the coming quarters. Specifically, he said that the company's inventory of raw materials was up 10 percent over the previous quarter, which suggested that Intel was slowing its production.
The news of Intel's results followed not just a strong general market rally, but a particularly strong rally for semiconductor stocks; the Philadelphia semiconductor index rose 9.44 percent, to 269, with virtually every stock up for the day. For its part, Intel rose 9.4 percent, to $16.52, before it released its earnings figures.
Subsequently, Intel's stock fell as low as $12.85 in after-hours trading. 
The market run-up in chip stocks "is irresponsible," said Mr. Lee, the analyst with Banc of America Securities. He said he had seen no fundamental changes that would justify the rally, other than "the market is having a love affair with semiconductor stocks." He predicted the Philadelphia semiconductor index, which combines the performance of chip stocks, would soon retreat.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Craig R. Barrett, the chief executive of Intel, during a recent speech in Florida. The company reported disappointing earnings yesterday. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER CHIPS; SALES; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (96%)

ORGANIZATION: INTEL CORP 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%) SIC3679 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS; SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES; 

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT; BRYANT, ANDY D 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



459 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: The Latest in Luxury: Haggling; 
In a Slow Economy, Some of the Best Stores Bargain

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN and MARIANNE ROHRLICH 

 BODY:
Roseann Hirsch was at Bloomingdale's shopping for furniture for her new Park Avenue apartment not long ago when she saw some Louis XVI-style couches. The ultrasuede couches, originally priced at $5,600 each, had been marked down to $3,360.
 The salesman said he could take another 10 percent off if Mrs. Hirsch opened a store account. Determined to do even better, she haggled with him. Ultimately, he gave in, and she bought two of the couches -- for $1,785 apiece. 
 Negotiations over price are nothing new in New York, where the phrase "for you, $100, cash only" is hardly unheard-of. Yet until recently the unwritten rules were pretty clear on where haggling was acceptable (for example, Orchard Street on the Lower East Side) and where it wasn't (Saks Fifth Avenue and other established uptown retailers). 
But now, with the economy gone sour and customers holding onto their wallets, many sellers and buyers say that shoppers are haggling more -- even at sleek SoHo furniture stores and chain electronics retailers -- and getting bigger discounts. 
"People don't think to do this in department stores," Mrs. Hirsch said, referring to her bargaining triumph, "but I'm telling you to do it. What you say is, 'How much more can you give us off? It's still too much.' "
With the economy shaky and another challenging holiday season approaching, customers sometimes deliberate over a purchase for weeks and then decide against it, store owners say, and so many merchants would much rather make a heavily discounted sale immediately instead of losing out altogether. 
Told about Mrs. Hirsch's experience, a Bloomingdale's spokeswoman, Anne Keating, expressed disbelief. "Our policy is not to negotiate," she said. "This is not something we do."
Haggling is not a practice that many store owners want to talk about, even though it is perfectly legal, as long as the customer initiates the negotiation, said Dina Improta, a spokeswoman for the city's Department of Consumer Affairs. But many merchants may not want to broadcast their willingness to make special deals.
Customers, too -- like a medical resident who shaved thousands of dollars off the price of an engagement ring at a fancy Fifth Avenue jeweler -- are often reluctant to admit to bargaining for fear of sounding declasse. 
Scott Krugman, a spokesman for the National Retail Federation, cautions that haggling is not commonplace in department stores. Elsewhere, however, or in fur and jewelry boutiques that lease space in department stores, salespeople working on commission are often allowed leeway to move merchandise, he said.
"It never hurts to ask, from a consumer perspective," Mr. Krugman said. "Now we're in a heavily promotional environment, and many retailers are becoming discounters." 
At C.I.T.E., a SoHo store that specializes in midcentury modern furniture, discounts are now standard, particularly if the customer pays in cash, said the owner, P. J. Casey. Ms. Casey said she recently took 50 percent off the price of an $18,000 desk-and-credenza set. "The customer came in and offered me $9,000 in cash," she said, "and I took it."
Ms. Casey said she had always offered a 10 percent "to-the-trade" discount to decorators, but now, like many other furniture dealers, she treats ordinary customers like professionals. "We have not sold one piece of furniture without coming down in price since 9/11," she said.
Haggling, of course, is not just a New York phenomenon. In Miami's design district, for example, one store owner, who insisted on anonymity, said, "Customers are negotiating a little bit, and we are willing to do a little better."
On the West Coast, Keith Kaplan of West Hollywood said that after a short negotiation at a designer showroom on Beverly Boulevard, he paid $550 each for four upholstered dining-room chairs that were originally priced at $1,100 apiece. Another shopper, Laurie Konheim of Holmby Hills, Calif., says that she does not pay full price for jewelry. "Usually a jewelry store will take the tax off," she said. "They'll try to work with you." 
In New York, customers at electronics stores know that they can always ask for a break if a competitor is advertising an item for less. But Robert Rader did not have another store's ad in mind when he looked for a television at P. C. Richard & Son in Carle Place, on Long Island, in February. Sony Trinitrons were priced at $430, but Mr. Rader was unwilling to pay more than $400. "I told that to the salesman," said Mr. Rader, an administrator for a nursing home association. "He was able to get under my limit."
Gary H. Richard, the company president, was not shocked to hear about Mr. Rader's transaction. Not everything at P. C. Richard is subject to negotiation, he said, but some products are. "Where there's a little more profit in it," he said, "then we can do it."
Sometimes the customer does not even have to ask. Bobbi Rudd, a Manhattan real estate executive, recently tried on a $350 scoop-neck cashmere sweater at a Madison Avenue boutique but thought it was a little pricey. "The manager said: 'That looks so good on you. I'm going to put it on sale soon. You can have it for $250,' " said Ms. Rudd, who did not want to identify the store. She said she had had other similar experiences. "When I see something that I think costs too much," she said. "I have found more often than not, they will say, 'I will reduce it.' "
Even in flusher times, eager salespeople were willing to accommodate regular customers by squirreling away an item for a couple of weeks before a sale so that it could be bought at a reduced price. In those days, merchandise would not go on sale until 20 weeks after it arrived in the store, but now the waiting time is as little as 8 weeks, said Mr. Krugman of the retail federation.
One Saks customer, Deanna Jackman, an interior design consultant in Beverly Hills, Calif., said she recently got a cooperative salesman to put aside a pair of Chanel evening shoes for a month until the price came down from $775 to $400. A Saks spokesman said that holding an item more than a couple of days "is strictly against policy." 
For some kinds of merchandise -- antiques and fine jewelry, for example -- bargaining is traditional, and no one expects to pay full price. But now, said Guido Maus, an owner of Lili Marleen, a TriBeCa antiques shop, "The customers expect you to come down more in price than before."
Last month, Mr. Maus charged a couple $12,000 for a table that carried a $17,000 price tag. "It was a gesture I made to them even before they asked for a discount," he said. The couple then offered to pay $1,500 for a drawing that was priced at $2,800 and walked out with it, he said.
Thanks to the Internet, many young shoppers are better informed than ever about how much they should pay for diamonds and other jewelry, said William E. Boyajian, the president of the Gemological Institute of America, a nonprofit organization that grades gemstones and pearls. "This is a much more sophisticated consumer," he said.
Mr. Boyajian said that people who buy from luxury jewelers like Harry Winston, where nothing costs less than $6,000, expect special treatment. "I'm sure there's a lot of give and take," he said. "I'm sure they work closely with their best clients."
Carol Brodie, a spokeswoman for Winston, said that all its customers get special treatment, but added that it might consist of securing theater tickets or lending diamond earrings for a special event rather than a price reduction. "Value," she said, "comes in all shapes and forms."

'CAN YOU DO BETTER?'
How to Get the Deal

Don't be bashful. Always ask for a discount, even if you don't expect to get one.

Don't haggle over a pair of socks. Save your breath for big-ticket items.

Be armed with cash or a check.

Be prepared to walk away if the merchant won't bargain -- but leave your phone number in case there is a change of heart. If a sale is imminent, ask a salesperson to hide those $500 shoes for you.

If a sale item is out of stock, ask the store to extend the sale.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "The customers expect you to come down more in price than before," said Guido Maus, above, with Magali Somers, owners of Lili Marleen, a TriBeCa antiques shop. Robert Rader, left, bargained with a P. C. Richard store for his TV. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); FURNITURE STORES (78%); JEWELRY (78%); SALES FORCE (77%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (73%); JEWELRY STORES (73%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); FINE JEWELRY (64%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%)

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY; ROHRLICH, MARIANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



460 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: University Merger Plan Has Support as Well as Concerns 

BYLINE:  By LAURA MANSNERUS 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
While Gov. James E. McGreevey promoted his plan for a new state university system, many in New Brunswick and Newark said today that they were reluctant to see their schools folded into something called the University of New Jersey. 
 The plan, released Monday by a commission that the governor appointed, was less than 24 hours old when a dozen deans and university administrators lined up at the State House this morning to endorse it. 
 Among them was Thomas H. Kean, the former governor. Mr. McGreevey said today that Mr. Kean was his first choice to be the chancellor of the new system. Mr. Kean, now the president of Drew University in Madison, said that he would consider the offer but that accomplishing the reorganization was "far down the road." 
The plan would effectively dismantle New Jersey's three public research universities and reorganize them geographically, with largely autonomous universities in Newark, New Brunswick and Camden. Each would have a medical school and other health-science programs, giving the system an emphasis on science and medicine. 
The system would resemble those in some other states -- California is most often mentioned -- which have separate universities, each with an array of professional schools, reporting to a central board of regents and chancellor.
The university officials who gathered today said, in glowing terms, that the plan would attract more outside research funds and offer many opportunities for academic cooperation. Another theme was the potential for raising the stature of the state's fractured university system. 
Opposition to the plan, which is much less organized, centers on two objections: first, that Newark, where two of the affected universities are based, would suffer, and second, that the name Rutgers would be lost. 
Under the proposal, Rutgers would combine with the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey and the New Jersey Institute of Technology. Then the system would be reconfigured into three regional universities. 
The promise of autonomy for a university based in Newark, which the proposal calls the University of New Jersey-North, dispelled earlier rumors that the plan would shift power to a single central administration in New Brunswick.
But lawmakers in Essex County are not entirely reassured. Richard J. Codey, the State Senate's Democratic co-president, said today that Newark could still be shortchanged in the yearlong process of working out details and drafting legislation. 
"Up here, there's an issue of local governance," Mr. Codey said. "We've got to be shown that it's the best thing for our cities and our area."
And United States Representative Donald M. Payne of Newark, a vocal opponent of the restructuring, said that the Newark university, which would have about 21,000 of the new system's 64,000 students, would see more disruption than New Brunswick or Camden.
Mr. Payne said he was still reviewing the 114-page proposal, but he added: "We're concerned about how much authority northern Jersey and Newark will have in the new board. There are jobs at stake. There's health care at stake." 
In New Brunswick, the issue of the day was simpler: would Rutgers, the state's flagship university, lose the name it has had since 1825? 
"I came to school at Rutgers, not the New Jersey University," said David Lerner, 20, a sophomore from Prairie Village, Kan. "I feel cheated. When I graduate, I know employers will look at the school I came from. If my diploma says Rutgers, then they will know it's a good school." 
Ellen DiBio, 21, a senior from Somerset, N.J., said: "I can't imagine Rutgers not being Rutgers. The state changing it to the University of New Jersey does not enhance the school. It makes it ordinary."
The universities involved in the proposed merger have made only cautious statements about it. The University of Medicine and Dentistry had opposed a merger earlier, and it commissioned a report that concluded that a consolidation would "stunt institutional growth and development plans."
In a statement on Monday, the university administration said that "we look forward to working with the governor" and commended the commission's "thoughtful review."
Robert A. Altenkirch, the president of the New Jersey Institute of Technology, said today that "with the right leadership, we're positive on moving forward." 
Dr. Altenkirch said he understood the concerns of legislators but believed that they were addressed in the proposal to have an independent university in Newark. "You're looking at generating a campus of 21,000 students in a coherent environment," he said. It's good for Newark from several points of view. It generates jobs, but more important, you generate technology that can be commercialized in partnership with industry, and that's economic development."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two former New Jersey governors, Thomas H. Kean, at lectern, and Brendan T. Byrne, right, were among those in Trenton yesterday expressing support for a proposal that would form a new state university system. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); SCIENCE FUNDING (72%); DENTISTRY (72%); LEGISLATION (71%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (65%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW JERSEY 

PERSON: DONALD M PAYNE (50%) MANSNERUS, LAURA; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW JERSEY; NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



461 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: THE HUNT FOR A SNIPER: ECONOMIC FALLOUT; 
Businesses Feeling Downdraft as Customers Stay Away

BYLINE:  By KATE ZERNIKE 

DATELINE: RESTON, Va., Oct. 15 

 BODY:
Early this morning, employees posted handwritten signs outside the Home Depot store here saying, "Thank you Reston for shopping with us!" 
 But few people were shopping at the store or anywhere else. 
 A few blocks away, at the Michaels crafts store, where customers usually have to drive around in circles to wait for a parking spot to open up, the parking lot was half-empty. In one section, seven cars were in 60 spaces. At Fitness First, a gym elsewhere in the shopping center, customers canceled personal training sessions. 
Around the metropolitan region, hotels told housekeepers not to report for work. The Washington Area Girls Soccer League canceled a national tournament over the weekend, resulting in 300 teams' canceling hotel reservations.
Tourism in the capital and its suburbs was suffering after the Sept. 11 attacks. The new shootings have created fresh fears that are keeping customers away from businesses, as well. Columbus Day, with its traditional sales, was flat, many businesses said. 
Several shootings have killed people as they loaded packages into their cars at shopping malls. Three shootings have occurred at malls with Michaels stores.
The shooting on Monday was outside a Home Depot in Falls Church, 10 miles from here.
But even businesses nowhere near those stores said they were seeing far fewer customers than usual.
"It's dead in here the last 10 days," said Else Dodd, standing behind the counter at Towne Silver and Goldsmith, a jewelry store in the Tysons Center Mall in Tysons Corner. "People are staying home. They figure if you really don't need something, why take the chance?"
Delivery services like Peapod are profiting from an unusual boom that they attribute directly to the shootings. At Primo Italiano, a pizzeria here, the manager, Van Ramey Jr., said that delivery was up but that walk-ins were down.
Last week, Mayor Anthony A. Williams of Washington pleaded with tourists not to give up visiting his city. At the Washington Convention and Tourism Corporation, William A. Hanbury, the chief executive, lamented that before Sept. 11 the city had regained its image as a safe city. 
"This hurts our image, no doubt about it," Mr. Hanbury said. 
Results have been mixed. Hotel occupancy rates are still fairly high, but some tours have canceled.
Several times, Mr. Hanbury repeated, "We've been through a lot in the last 14 months."
At the jewelry shop, Ron Kalman, the assistant manager, said the patterns of foot traffic in the mall had depended on the sniper's activity. 
"As a couple of days go by and there's no shooting," Mr. Kalman said, "people get more comfortable. There's a bit of a surge. Then something happens, and people start to cocoon again."
The shooting on Monday was the first in Fairfax County. Businesses there said they could see some of its results this morning.
"They said they want to reschedule," Tiffany Jones said at the front desk at Fitness First. "This has just hit too close to home." 
Coffee shops pulled in outdoor tables. Michaels, like other businesses, ordered stores to pull in outdoor merchandise displays. In parking lots, customers who did show up often dashed from their cars to the stores.
Checkout lines at grocery stores were empty, often with just one register open. Employees at many stores stood idle, chatting, without customers to attend to.
A spokesman for Michaels, Tom Clary, said that he could not say how much business had declined, but that it had obviously fallen. 
"People just aren't going out right now," Mr. Clary said. 
At the CompUSA off Duke Street in Alexandria, a customer service representative, Brian Swan, said that store had been "dead as a doornail."
"I've been able to get a lot of clerical work done," Mr. Swan said, "because I haven't had to deal with many customers." 
Hotels are proving fairly resilient, Mr. Hanbury said, at 80 percent occupancy. Although some student groups have decided not to cancel trips, many student day trips were off. Other groups and individuals canceled trips, Mr. Hanbury said, and fewer families and day trippers traveled here. 
The shootings have affected businesses internally, too. Home Depot employees had manuals on "Coping With a Critical Incident."
Mr. Clary, at Michaels, said those stores employed primarily part-timers, students and teenagers. 
"So we've had to rearrange schedules," he said, "to meet the requests from employees and parents that are nervous about having their children working at night."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Mullins, an employee at Michaels crafts store in Reston, Va., taking a break. The Monday shooting was at the nearby Home Depot store. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SEWING & CRAFT STORES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); SHOOTINGS (88%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); JEWELRY STORES (77%); FITNESS CENTERS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); TRENDS (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (70%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (70%); SOCCER (69%); TOURNAMENTS (69%); TERRORISM (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); EXECUTIVES (63%); COUNTIES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SERIAL MURDERS 

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (95%); FITNESS FIRST LTD (57%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%); NAICS713940 FITNESS & RECREATIONAL SPORTS CENTERS (57%); SIC7991 PHYSICAL FITNESS FACILITIES (57%)

PERSON: ZERNIKE, KATE 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) WASHINGTON (DC); MARYLAND; VIRGINIA

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



462 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Markets Continue to Rise On Upbeat Earnings Reports
Stocks soared almost 5 percent as investors celebrated upbeat earnings reports from two financial institutions and began to shift their views from gloomy to hopeful. In a four-day rally, the Dow Jones industrial average has risen almost 1,000 points.
 The consensus among investors seemed to be that the steady drumbeat of bad news in recent months -- corporate scandals, a struggling economy, the prospect of war -- had pushed stock prices too low. As a result, even a few pieces of good news about earnings were enough to fuel a comeback. Page A1. 

A Series With Stock Consequences
For the third time since a California World Series became a possibility, there is a battle between North and South. All three series have come at a time when Wall Street was reeling. And they have often occurred before a market surge. Floyd Norris: Market Place. C9.

Advertising Executive Leaves CBS
Joseph D. Abruzzese, left, who has led the advertising sales department at CBS for 12 years, is leaving to join the Discovery Networks of cable television as president of sales. The move surprised CBS, which is enjoying one of its best years ever in advertising sales. Mr. Abruzzese said that the time was right to move to a different challenge. C8.

Mark Gill, a Miramax Films executive regarded as a marketing expert, has left to join the Stratus Film Company, a finance and production company. C8.

Daimler in Tentative Deal in Canada
Negotiators for DaimlerChrysler and the Canadian Auto Workers union reached a tentative agreement on a labor contract. C4.

Time Warner Offers a Video Service
Time Warner Cable, the biggest cable TV provider in New York, said that it would offer video on demand to hundreds of thousands of homes by the end of the month and to more than one million by the end of the year. B5.

AOL Is Eliminating Pop-Up Ads
AOL Time Warner said that its AOL service would eliminate pop-up advertisements for other companies as it seeks to restore the allegiance of its members, reinvent its advertising business and fend off Microsoft's MSN. C8.

Revenue Rises for Charles Schwab
Charles Schwab reported that its third-quarter earnings rose 18 percent before one-time costs. Revenue rose to nearly $1.04 billion from $997 million a year earlier. C4.

Businesses Trim Inventories
Businesses trimmed their inventories in August for the first time in four months. Inventories edged down 0.1 percent. C9.

Bank Rejects $16 Billion Offer
Bank of Ireland published details of its $16 billion offer for Abbey National, and Abbey has once again rejected the proposal as insufficient. World Business, Section W.

Earnings Rise at Johnson & Johnson
In sharp contrast to its rivals in the pharmaceutical industry, Johnson & Johnson reported double-digit earnings growth and told analysts to expect strong results for the year. The company said it earned $1.8 billion, or 60 cents a share, for the third quarter, an increase of nearly 19 percent. The company also reported a 13 percent increase in sales. C5.

This and That From Ad Conference
Reliving some of the highlights, lowlights and sidelights from the 2002 conference of the Association of National Advertisers. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C8.

German Funds Pour Money Into U.S.
Changes to the regulation of some German funds and mortgage banking practices are contributing to an increased flow of German capital into commercial real estate in the United States. Commercial Real Estate. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,255.68 up 378.28Nasdaq composite -- 1,282.44 up 61.9110-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.01% up 0.20The euro -- $0.9805 down 0.0063The dollar -- 124.77 yen up 0.48 Graph tracks the daily closing price of Johnson & Johnson shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (71%); BROADBAND (71%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (69%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (69%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (66%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); SCANDALS (56%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AOL INC (82%); BANK OF IRELAND (61%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (61%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); SANTANDER UK PLC (50%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (82%); IRE (NYSE) (61%); BKIR (LSE) (61%); JNJ (NYSE) (61%); SCHW (NYSE) (58%); TWC (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (82%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (61%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (61%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (61%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



463 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: THE HUNT FOR A SNIPER: THE OVERVIEW; 
Sniper Left Clues This Time, and Police Report Progress in Inquiry

BYLINE:  By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: FALLS CHURCH, Va., Oct. 15 

 BODY:
This time the roving sniper left more clues, with a number of witnesses getting a better, more chilling glimpse of him and his getaway van as they looked beyond his latest victim on the floor of a parking garage.
 Law enforcement officials working on the sweeping manhunt for the sniper marked qualified progress today as they investigated the killing of a 47-year-old woman, his 11th victim, here on Monday night. 
 This time, officials said, there were more immediate witnesses than in previous killings, and the witnesses provided much more information, including license plate data noted as the gunman fled in the now- familiar light-colored van reported at the last three killings. 
One government official described the closest, starkest sighting yet by a witness who reported seeing the gunman step brazenly from his van in the indoor parking garage, about 90 feet from Linda Franklin and her husband, Ted, as the two were loading shelving into their car after leaving the Home Depot store here at 9:15 Monday night. 
"He had his choice and he took her," the official recounted of the sniper's taking aim, firing once and striking Ms. Franklin in the head, killing her instantly.
The gunman then fled, once more successfully eluding an intense police dragnet activated soon after the shooting.
Hoping to prevent that from happening again, the Pentagon agreed today to deploy secret surveillance planes to patrol the skies over the Washington area. The planes, which have sophisticated sensors, will be used to respond to future attacks. Page A18. 
This morning, the police confirmed that overnight ballistics tests conclusively showed that Ms. Franklin, an analyst for the Federal Bureau of Investigation who was not involved in the manhunt, was the ninth person killed by the roving suburban sniper.
In the two weeks of the sniper's terrifying shooting spree, the killing in this busy suburban community was the first in which witnesses said they saw the actual shooting, police officials privately emphasized.
Witnesses offered enough partial glimpses of the fleeing sniper to allow a police sketch artist to try a composite drawing, detectives said.
"We have been receiving quite a bit of information from witnesses," the Fairfax County police chief, Thomas Manger, said at a news conference after a long night of interviews by investigators combing the scene.
In the busy crossroads mall, Seven Corners Center, officers crawled in waves on hands and knees in the search for evidence.
"We're confident that ultimately that information is going to lead us to an arrest," Chief Manger said, expressing guarded optimism that was not widely shared in the Washington region. 
"We have received license plate information from several witnesses," Chief Manger said. 
If so, it would be one of the most promising clues that has yet been spoken of publicly by officials during the manhunt. Investigators have mostly been close-mouthed so the sniper could not profit from some nugget of crime-scene evidence or detective strategy. The new information stoked hope that an identification of a suspect might be in the offing, but officials declined to speculate.
In intensifying their search, the police took care to speak theoretically of the "person or people" responsible for the shootings, since some witnesses were reported to have talked of possibly two people hurriedly glimpsed fleeing scenes of attacks. 
The shooting scene here, six miles west of Washington, was a study in the sniper's method of attack.
He killed with only a single shot from a high-powered rifle as he has each time in the two-week rampage that has left nine dead and two critically wounded. He appeared to stalk an open area more than a particular victim. His perch, as usual, was close to a fast escape route that allowed him to be lost in minutes.
Government officials said today that the gunman had 15 to 20 minutes before they were able to seal off major roads.
One difference this time was the added touch of cruelty of shooting Ms. Franklin as her husband was a step away, unseeing and powerless to help. They were in a mundane, off-guard moment -- another of the sniper's now-clear preferences -- putting purchases into their red convertible, shelving to be used in a move they were planning this month from the Washington area.
"There she was, the poor woman, her body right there," said Zuhair Massoud, a 50-year-old businessman who emerged from the Home Depot a minute or two after Ms. Franklin was cut down.
"When the F.B.I. agent questioned me later," Mr. Massoud recounted, "He told me: 'This guy's gone already. He's very good. He knows what he's doing.' "
The shooting meant further consternation for the police armada of local, state and federal investigators conducting a thus-far-fruitless manhunt stretching more than 50 miles across the Washington metropolitan area.
If nothing else, detectives were able to eliminate some possible suspects they had under surveillance elsewhere on Monday night as the sniper struck again.
Publicly, officers steadfastly declined to answer questions about how close they think they might be to identifying a prime suspect, or what their strategy is beyond the grim hope that he will get more careless with each new killing.
"How did he get away again?" a reporter shouted at Chief Charles A. Moose of the Montgomery County police as he faced a demanding clot of reporters in Rockville, Md.
Chief Moose is head of the coordinated regional manhunt by dint of the fact that the northern Montgomery County suburban area has had six people killed by the gunman.
Once more questioning whether reporters are compromising the manhunt in their search for crucial details, Chief Moose declined to speculate on the sniper's wiliness or the police strategies.
"If the person or people involved in this were paying attention, they would have that strategy and therefore would make that part of their strategy," the chief replied.
The police released a composite depiction of the sort of light-colored van being sought, based on witness accounts of the slaying of a man on Friday at a gas station in Four Mile Fork, Va. Rather than displaying one van, it shows two possible models close to witness descriptions, a Chevrolet Astro van and a Ford Econoline.
White vans were being stopped all over the region by the police, some with their hands on their pistols. One driver trying to go about his business in his white Chevrolet Astro van with a roof ladder rack -- the kind described in one police report -- had plastered the side windows with signs reading, "This Ain't The One."
The sense of fear and bewilderment in the Washington suburbs has become palpable with each shooting. But beyond fear, there is growing impatience among the public with the investigation, with promises of progress by the police while the sniper strikes at a near daily rate.
"How can you predict what this guy is going to do?" Mr. Massoud, the Home Depot shopper who saw Ms. Franklin lying dead, said in defending the police. "When it comes to this kind of terrorism how do you fight it?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: A small memorial was set up yesterday at a mall parking lot in Falls Church, Va., where a sniper killed Linda Franklin on Monday night. The mall, Seven Corners Center, is at the junction of two major traffic arteries, Routes 7 and 50. (Top, Vincent Laforet/The New York Times; bottom, GlobeXplorer/Airphoto)(pg. A1); Police investigators lined up yesterday to sweep the area around a Home Depot store in Falls Church, Va. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times); (GlobeXplorer/AirPhoto USA)(pg. A18) Chart/Diagram: "Scene of the 11th Shooting"The shooting on Monday took place in the covered parking area of the Seven Corners Center, a mall at the junction of Routes 7 and 50. THE VICTIMLinda Franklin, 47, was shot while loading her car. THE SNIPERThe gunman was about 90 feet from her. Diagram highlights the Home Depot and surrounding area. (Sources: F.B.I.; Seven Corners Center; Home Depot)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); EYEWITNESSES (89%); WITNESSES (89%); TESTIMONY (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); FIREARMS (70%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (69%); SUBURBS (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SERIAL MURDERS 

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (82%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (82%)

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; FRANKLIN, LINDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%) WASHINGTON (DC); MARYLAND; VIRGINIA; FALLS CHURCH (VA)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



464 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Tears and Hugs as 5 Abducted Japanese Go Home to Visit 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
On the tarmac of Tokyo's domestic airport, tears and long hugs contrasted today with the festive red-and-white Japanese flags and the homemade banners reading "Welcome Home."
 Nearly a quarter-century in the making, the homecoming was one that many Japanese doubted they would ever witness: five Japanese citizens, snatched off beaches by North Korean agents in 1978, bundled into bags and taken away by boats, returned for the first time. 
 "He leaned down and hugged me and said, 'I'm sorry to have worried you,' and then the long 24 years seemed somehow a bit shorter," Hatsui Hasuike, said after embracing her son Kaoru.
Last seen in Japan as a college junior, he returned today as a 45-year-old father of two. When his elder brother, Toru, asked him about the kidnapping, he deflected the question, saying: "Not now. Let's talk about it later." 
In North Korea, Kaoru Hasuike and as many as 12 others -- eight of whom North Korea says have since died -- were pressed into service as Japanese language and cultural tutors for spies by the Communist state.
Sequestered for more than two decades in one of the world's most reclusive and impoverished countries, the five survivors will visit here for one week with the permission of North Korea's government. 
Today they appeared to be rusty even in their own language as they spoke with family members and learned for the first time of births of nieces and nephews, and of babies who are now college students.
The visit comes as controversy continues to rage over the kidnappings. It is still unclear whether those who did not survive were killed. North Korea's decision not to allow the children of those who returned today to travel with them has prompted accusation that they are being held hostage.
Two couples, who had been kidnapped on dates, returned today married with grown children. Another woman married an American now in North Korea, who reportedly deserted the United States Army. 
In the coming days they will discover a Japan where eight-track tapes have been replaced by CD's, where black hair and green tea have given way to dyed hair and gourmet coffee, where social lives revolve around cellphones and the Internet, and where 14 prime ministers have spun in and out of government since they were spirited away.
North Korea for decades denied that the kidnappings had even taken place. But last month, Kim Jong Il, North Korea's leader, unexpectedly admitted to 13 abductions and apologized during a groundbreaking visit to Pyongyang by Junichiro Koizumi, the Japanese prime minister.
The admission was greeted here with a mix of anger and relief, and on Monday Mr. Koizumi openly suggested what many Japanese believe: that North Korea executed many kidnap victims. Two groups of relatives of those abducted say that the real number of kidnapped may be 50 to 60.
"Certainly North Korea is an unpardonable country," Mr. Koizumi said on national television. "It abducts, takes away and kills."
He later backpedaled a bit, saying he was conveying the opinions of many people in Japan, not necessarily his own.
Next week the five visitors, who all wore pins of the North Korean flag in their lapels, will fly back to North Korea to rejoin their children, who remained behind. 
Pyongyang has said that the six children of the returnees did not want to accompany their parents to Japan. But in Tokyo, the Japanese grandparents said their grandchildren were being held against their will.
The Japanese government is preparing passports for the five who came here today.
Trying to put the bizarre episode behind them, Japan and North Korea are to hold talks on Oct. 29 and 30 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, with the aim of eventually normalizing ties. Analysts say that with North Korea desperate for economic aid, the chances are good that it will ultimately release all of the family members.
Today Mr. Koizumi vowed to use the talks to win their return and to "probe into the truth about other abductees whose fates are yet unknown."
"My heart aches when I think of the sorrow and hardships those abducted and their families have experienced in the long 20-plus years," he said in a statement. "With the realization of this temporary homecoming visit, we were able to take the first step forward to resolve the abduction issue."
Japan's press greeted the arrival of the five with a frenzy today -- special newspaper editions, live television coverage and hundreds of reporters and cameras assembled for a huge news conference. But in an indication of how uncertain their position remains, the five were unwilling to speak their minds in interviews.
At a brief news conference, several returnees had red eyes from crying, but their public comments were short and circumspect. With several speaking with light Korean accents, the five limited themselves to apologizing to relatives for the worry their kidnappings had caused.
Two sets of those kidnapped returned as married couples. Mr. Hasuike came here with his wife, Yukiko Okudo, 46. Yasushi Chimura, 47, was here with his wife, Fukie Hamamoto, also 47.
Hitomi Soga, 43, left behind in Pyongyang not only two daughters, but also her husband, Charles Robert Jenkins, 62, a North Carolina native who is reported to have deserted the United States Army in South Korea in 1965.
Akitaka Saiki, a Japanese official, talked to Mr. Jenkins today at the airport in Pyongyang, where he saw his wife off. The official said Mr. Jenkins recalled living in Japan at an Army base near Tokyo in the early 1960's but was reluctant to fly here today, apparently out of fear of arrest and deportation to the United States.
North Korea's explanations of how the eight kidnapped Japanese died have little credibility in Japan. They include assertions that a woman succumbed to heart disease at 27; that another who was kidnapped at 13 hanged herself when she was 29; that the deaths of a family of three resulted from gas poisoning at home; and that, in a country where car ownership is restricted to the top elite, two others who died in a car accident.
According to the accounts provided by North Korean officials, most of the graves of those who died were washed away in the floods that ravaged the country in the mid-1990's.
This morning the 15-year-old daughter of the woman who committed suicide went to Pyongyang's airport, evidently believing that her grandparents would be coming on the plane that arrived from Japan carrying Japanese officials.
"I want to meet the girl as soon as possible," the grandfather, Shigeru Yokota, said today in Japan.
A leader in a decades-long campaign to win freedom for those who were kidnapped, Mr. Yokota said he was devastated to learn last month that his daughter, Megumi, had apparently fallen into a deep depression in Pyongyang, leading to her suicide a decade ago in a psychiatric hospital.
Looking at a photo of his 15-year-old granddaughter, he said, "She is small in stature and looks like me and my wife."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 17, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the first homeland visit by five Japanese who were abducted by North Koreans more than 20 years ago referred incorrectly in some copies to the background of Charles Robert Jenkins, who married one of them in North Korea. He deserted the United States Army while stationed in South Korea, but it was in 1965, not during the Korean War. 
The article also misstated the number of auto accident deaths among the eight other people that North Korea acknowledges having abducted. According to the official account, only one died in a car accident, not two.




GRAPHIC: Photos: BEFORE AND AFTER Shown yesterday and in photos from before their abductions are HITOMI SOGA, left, who married an American, apparently a deserter, in North Korea but came to Japan alone, and YASUSHI CHIMURA, center, and FUKIE HAMAMATO, who married after their kidnappings.; YUKIKO OKUDO, left, disappeared when she was 22 years old. KAORU HASUIKE was kidnapped in 1978 when he was 20 years old and a college junior. They too were married, and now have two children. (Photographs by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (86%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); AIRPORTS (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); ESPIONAGE (71%); FAMILY (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (66%); ARMIES (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) KIDNAPPING; ESPIONAGE; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (56%) BROOKE, JAMES; SOGA, HITOMI; CHIMURA, YASUSHI; HAMAMATO, FUKIE; OKUDO, YUKIKO; HASUIKE, KAORU 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) NORTH KOREA; JAPAN 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



465 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
GREEN, S. WILLIAM (BILL).

 BODY:
GREEN-S. William (Bill). On October 14, 2002. Beloved husband of Patricia (nee Freiberg). Devoted and cherished father of Cathy Green and Louis Green. Dear brother of Cynthia Green Colin. Fond brother-in-law of Carole and Marvin Leichtung. Loving uncle of nieces, Julie, Laura, Ann and Betsy, and nephew, Jim. A native of New York City, he served his city and his country in many capacities, both before and after representing the East Side of Manhattan in the House of Representatives from 1978 to 1992. He was a graduate and loyal alumnus of Harvard College and Harvard Law School. Visiting at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., on Tuesday, October 15, and Wednesday, October 16, from 7 PM-9 PM. Services Thursday, October 17, at 11:30 AM, at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street. 
GREEN-The Honorable S. William. The Board and Staff of The Jewish Association For Services For The Aged note with profound sadness the passing of its Associate Chairman and Past President. A Founding Trustee of JASA, he and his family played a critical leadership role in its creation. A generous and insightful philanthropist, his giving often provided the seed money that led to the creation of housing, senior centers, and special programs for the frail and vulnerable elderly. Throughout his distinguished career in public service-in The New York State Assembly, at The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, and in The U.S. Congress-he was a leading advocate for the development of affordable housing. At JASA, he was a key member of The Building, Sites and Housing Committee, and provided pivotal support for major housing developments for the elderly including The Evelyn and Louis A. Green Residences in Far Rockaway and at Cooper Square in Manhattan. Bill Green was a quiet, caring, compassionate and totally honest individual who possessed a powerful intellect and clarity of vision. He was someone you could count on, and we all did. We will miss his wise counsel, and gentle spirit. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Patricia, his children, Catherine and Louis, and his sister, Cynthia Green Colin. Leonard Boxer, President Marilyn Friedman, Chair David J. Stern, Executive V.P.
GREEN-S. William. The Trustees, faculty and staff of New School University mourn the loss of devoted Trustee, Bill Green. A Trustee of the University since 1986, Bill Green began his affiliation in 1969 as a member of the Board of Governors of the University's Robert J. Milano Graduate School of Management and Urban Policy. As Chair of that Governing Board from 1993-2001, he reinforced the School's commitment to the City of New York, increased the visibility of critical urban issues in its academic and public programs, and created a fellowship program to ensure access to the School for women and minority students. His passion for public service and social justice resonated profoundly with the values that animate the Milano Graduate School and the University. Bill Green shaped and strengthened New School University with his farsightedness, personal generosity and intelligent support. We will greatly miss his steadfast friendship, sage counsel, and his endearing presence as a member of our community. We convey our heartfelt condolences to his wife Patricia, daughter, Catherine Ann and son, Louis Matthew. Philip Scaturro, Chairman, Board of Trustees Bob Kerrey, President, New School University Edward J. Blakely, Dean, Robert J. Milano Graduate School of Management and Urban Policy
GREEN-S. William. The President, the Board of Trustees, and the entire Montefiore community deeply mourn the death of our esteemed colleague, The Honorable S. William Green. A great man and a dear friend, he served as a member of The U.S. House of Representatives from 1978 to 1993 where his wise leadership and steady resolve helped guide the country through a period of great change. His keen interest in advancing social and scientific issues such as women's rights and AIDS research, won him the respect of the entire New York community. As a devoted member of The Montefiore Board of Trustees since 1962, Bill Green was deeply committed to improving the quality of health of the more than 1.5 million New Yorkers we serve. A man of both vision and compassion, he combined his extraordinary skills in politics, business and philanthropy to enrich the lives of so many. To his wife Pat, his son Louis and daughter Catherine Ann, we extend our deepest sympathy and heartfelt condolences. Spencer Foreman, M.D., President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Montefiore Medical Center
GREEN-Hon. S. William. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of William Green, former United States representative, beloved husband of Patricia, dear brother of Cynthia, and a cherished friend. An inspired leader, Bill was a founding trustee of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged, a trustee of Montefiore Medical Center, and a leader in Federation's Wall Street Division. He and his sister, Cynthia Green Colin, continue the philanthropic legacy of their parents, Evelyn and Louis Green. Bill strongly supported Israel and the rescue of Soviet Jews. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Patricia; children, Catherine and Louis; sister, Cynthia; and extended family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
GREEN-Hon. S. William. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York mourns the passing of our distinguished member Hon. S. William Green. In the words of King David, he was a man "of clean hands and a pure heart." As a member of the House of Representatives, he cared for our community as a shepherd tended his flock. He leaves behind a legacy of dedication and commitment that will forever be an inspiration. To his family, we extend our deepest sympathies. May his memory always remain a blessing. Dr. David M. Posner, Senior Rabbi Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Senior Rabbi Emeritus Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
GREEN-S. William. The National Abortion & Reproductive Rights Action League of New York mourns the loss of Bill Green, friend, colleague and pro-choice champion throughout his years of service in the United States Congress. As a representative from Manhattan, Bill was a progressive Republican who set a national example for his party, taking pro-choice positions and supporting reproductive rights for all women. He was our standard bearer within his party, and we will deeply miss his eloquent, committed and passionate voice. We send our heartfelt condolences and deepest sympathy to Bill's family.
GREEN-Hon. S. William (Bill). The Directors, officers and staff of General American Investors Company, Inc. are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed colleague, Bill Green, who served the Company with great dedication for ten years as a Director. His wisdom, judgment and counsel were highly regarded by the Board. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Patricia, to his sister, Cynthia Green Colin, to his children, Cathy and Louis, and to other members of his family. Lawrence B. Buttenwieser, Chairman, Board of Directors
GREEN-Bill. It is with tremendous sadness that Planned Parenthood of New York City (PPNYC) notes the death of our distinguished and beloved Honorary Board Member, former Congressman Bill Green. In Congress, he exerted his extraordinary intelligence and skill to become an acknowledged leader and champion for reproductive rights for all women. PPNYC extends heartfelt sympathy to his family. Cathy Cramer, Chair, Board of Directors Joan Malin, President & CEO
GREEN-Bill. The Board of Directors and staff of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council profoundly mourn the death of its esteemed Board member and friend. Bill Green was admired by all of us associated with CHPC for his exceptional intelligence, unqualified integrity and staunch dedication to the people of New York. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Patricia, and the Green family. James Lipscomb, Chairman Marvin Markus, President Frank Braconi, Exec. Dir.
GREEN-Bill. Congressman & dear friend. His 73 years were devoted to public service of the highest caliber. As an Assemblyman, Congressman, and a leader of the progressive wing of the Republican party, he served his nation, his state, his city and his party with honor and distinction. He truly will be missed. John Ravitz, chairman Gertrude Hess Parker, executive secretary New York Republican County Committee
GREEN-S. William. Commercial Capital Corporation mourns the passing of Bill Green, a great American, distinguished attorney and a public servant of the highest integrity. Bill was a longtime Director and steadfast supporter of our company. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Pat, his sister Cynthia, and the entire Green family. Charles Freeman, Chairman Craig Reynolds, Director
GREEN-Bill. The Trustees and Staff of the Taconic Foundation record with immense sorrow the death of our longtime colleague, Bill Green. He brought to our counsels-as he did to all the other institutions he served, in and out of public life-his commanding intelligence, unending thoughtfulness, valorous independence and a passionate pursuit of the public interest. To his family we extend our profound sympathy.
 GREEN-Congressman Bill. For his years of extraordinary leadership in the U.S. House of Representatives, his lifetime of service to the people of the State of New York and his stalwart support of a woman's right to reproductive freedom. Beloved husband of our long time board member, Pat Green. The Republican Pro-Choice Coalition 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); CHILDREN (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); CITIES (71%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (70%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); AGING (67%) 

ORGANIZATION: JEWISH ASSOCIATION FOR SERVICES FOR THE AGED (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%)

PERSON: GREEN, S. WILLIAM (BILL). 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



466 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Museum Gives Voice to Doubts on Dr. King's Killer 

BYLINE:  By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN 

DATELINE: MEMPHIS 

 BODY:
James Earl Ray, a drifter and ex-convict, shot and killed the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. with a single bullet here on an April evening in 1968.
 That is the official story, the reason Mr. Ray spent the last three decades of his life in prison. Everybody knows it. 
 But not everybody accepts it. Almost as soon as Dr. King was cut down -- and even more so after Mr. Ray recanted his guilty plea -- conspiracy theories abounded. Some said the assassin was an army sniper. Mr. Ray insisted he had been framed by a man named Raul, hired by the C.I.A. There was even a report that one of Dr. King's entourage had helped to kill him.
The authorities have repeatedly dismissed such talk, most recently in 2000, when the Justice Department, after an 18-month investigation, said there was no evidence that the assassin was anyone but Mr. Ray, and that there should be no more inquiries.
Now, however, the conspiracy theories have stirred to life again at the National Civil Rights Museum, in the former Lorraine Motel where Dr. King was shot. The museum recently opened an exhibit in a new $11 million wing primarily to document the assassination and the mystery that still surrounds it, at least in some people's minds.
On display are 200 pieces of evidence, freshly unsealed from police archives. The gun. The 30.06-caliber bullet tweezed out of Dr. King's body. A fake passport and guidebook to Rhodesia found on Mr. Ray, curious artifacts for an unemployed ex-convict supposedly working solo.
The exhibit, called "Lingering Questions," opened on Sept. 28. Questions are stamped on the wall, in bold letters. "Did Ray have help? Did someone else do it? Was the Memphis Police Department part of the conspiracy?" 
A haunting voice leaks out of a pair of speakers. "There was this climate of hate. It was simply in the air. You knew it was going to happen."
That voice, sad and steady, belongs to Coretta Scott King.
The King family believes that Mr. Ray, who died of liver disease in 1998, was not the killer. Dexter King, Dr. King's son, visited Mr. Ray on his deathbed. The government killed my father, Dexter King told him, not you.
A spokesman for the King family, which is not officially involved in the museum or this exhibit, said the family appreciated "the dialogue." Mr. Ray's family said they were finally getting the vindication they deserved. Visitors are entranced.
"We're just putting the ideas out there," said the museum director, Beverly Robertson. "Let's face it. A lot of people have doubts about who killed Dr. King. I've looked at the evidence. I've found it fascinating. I still don't know."
But Peter G. Beeson, one of the investigators in a 1979 Congressional inquiry into the killing, said there was no doubt in his mind, "no lingering questions," that Mr. Ray had done it.
"We examined all these theories as carefully as we could," said Mr. Beeson, now a lawyer in Manchester, N.H. "The evidence kept coming back to Ray. I guess you'll always have those who still want to believe in government conspiracy theories."
The assassination exhibit will be a permanent addition to the National Civil Rights Museum, which opened in 1991 and traces the story of the movement from 1619, when the first slaves arrived in Jamestown, Va., to modern times.
The museum, which draws about 130,000 visitors a year, is financed by donations and grants. It includes both the motel where Dr. King was shot and the rooming house across Mulberry Street where Mr. Ray stayed. Federal agents said Mr. Ray, a convicted robber who was on the run after escaping prison, fired the fatal shot from a second-floor bathroom directly across from the motel.
But the exhibit hedges on that. In the rooming house bathroom, James Earl Ray is not mentioned. However, Mr. Ray's belongings are featured in glass cases. One houses a bottle of Gillette Sun-Up aftershave, a hairbrush and pair of Mr. Ray's boxer shorts.
Under an agreement drawn up by the Tennessee Legislature, state police archives gave 200 pieces of evidence to the museum to put on display. None had been seen before, because there had never been a trial.
Mr. Ray's younger brother, Jerry, says the F.B.I. knows who killed Dr. King. "And it wasn't Jimmy," Jerry Ray said. "I guess this museum thing is good because it shows both sides, the truth and the lies. I still want that rifle back, though. It's our family's not theirs." (Museum officials said the rifle was staying.)
Several display boards compare leading conspiracy theories with the conclusions of the investigations that have been held over the years. 
"These boards really make you wonder," said Mary Moore, a St. Louis social worker who recently visited the exhibit. "And that's O.K. I think things like this put a stamp of approval on our tradition of questioning."
The Rev. Fred Shuttlesworth, an 80-year-old civil rights champion and friend of Dr. King, agreed.
"It may be upsetting to go through all this again," Mr. Shuttlesworth said. "But we got to. So many things are covered up these days."
One display board suggests that the Memphis Police Department might have been involved in Dr. King's murder because police officers cleared away part of the crime scene within hours of the shooting. As with the Kennedy assassination, the suspicion lives on, no matter what the authorities say.
"There are so many conspiracy theories around Dr. King's death, you can't count them on your hands and feet," said LaTanya Able, a Memphis police spokeswoman. "It's unfortunate we were included."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 22, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about an exhibit at the National Civil Rights Museum in Memphis that questions whether James Earl Ray acted alone in the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. misidentified a recorded voice that speaks of "a climate of hate" at the time and says, "You knew it was going to happen." It is the voice of Myrlie Evers, widow of Medgar Evers, not Coretta Scott King.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The rooming house where officials say the shot killing the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was fired is part of the National Civil Rights Museum.; Beverly Robertson, the museum director, where Dr. King was shot. (Photographs by Troy Glasgow for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); ASSASSINATION (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EVIDENCE (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); POLICE FORCES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (66%); LIVER DISEASE (50%) ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CIVIL RIGHTS MUSEUM (MEMPHIS) 

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (90%) KING, MARTIN LUTHER JR (1929-68); RAY, JAMES EARL (1928-98); GETTLEMAN, JEFFREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (93%) TENNESSEE, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



467 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: A Smaller Loss Than Expected At Delta Sends Shares Up 21% 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

 BODY:
Delta Air Lines reported a deeper loss yesterday, reflecting a summer in which passengers -- worried about the shaky economy and inundated with talk of war and terrorism -- failed to return to the skies at the rate executives had hoped for.
 But the loss, excluding unusual items, was better than analysts had expected, and shares of Delta rose $1.59, or 21 percent, to close at $9.09 yesterday. That was the largest single-day percentage gain for Delta in two decades, said Jamie Baker, an analyst at J. P. Morgan. 
 "The fundamentals may not be showing any improvement, but at least the deterioration appears to have halted," Mr. Baker said. "Before anything in life starts getting better, it has to stop getting worse first." 
Delta, the nation's third-largest carrier, was the first airline to report its third-quarter earnings, and its numbers portend a depressing week for the industry.
AMR, the parent of American Airlines, the world's largest carrier, is expected to report its financial results today. Analysts expect its numbers to be bleak, though likely not as bad as those of its biggest rival, United Airlines. UAL, the parent of United, is scheduled to announce its third-quarter results on Friday, and has said it could file for bankruptcy by mid-November. 
Over all, the industry is expected to lose $7 billion or more this year as companies struggle to keep flying.
With special charges and gains factored in, Delta lost $326 million, or $2.67 a share, in the third quarter. Excluding one-time charges and gains, the loss at Delta was $212 million, or $1.75 a share, better than analysts' consensus estimate of a loss of $1.84 a share, according to a survey by Thomson First Call. 
The one-time unusual items included a $139 million charge from a reduction in market value of its aging MD-11 and Boeing 727 aircraft and spare parts. 
Delta had revenue of $3.42 billion in the quarter, up slightly from $3.4 billion a year earlier, when the Sept. 11 attacks devastated air traffic. 
In the third quarter of last year, Delta had a loss of $259 million, or $2.13 a share.
Delta's bad quarter was not a surprise, because the company had predicted a big loss in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing on Sept. 27. 
Executives foretold a gloomy year ahead for airlines during a conference call yesterday morning.
"There is no doubt that this has been a demanding quarter for Delta and the entire industry," said M. Michele Burns, the chief financial officer. "We do not see a near-term improvement."
Ms. Burns said the fourth-quarter loss would be in line with analysts' expectations. The consensus estimate by Thomson First Call is for a loss of $2.20 a share in the fourth quarter.
To cut costs, Delta said it planned to ground all 15 of its MD-11 aircraft and defer deliveries of new Boeing planes in 2003 and 2004. The deferrals -- five planes next year and 24 in 2004 -- will help reduce $1.3 billion from capital expenditures over that time period, executives said.
The elimination of the MD-11's, a McDonnell Douglas line that first went into service in 1992 at Delta, will help simplify the fleet of Delta, a move that many large carriers are also undertaking. The fewer different types of planes in a fleet, the more the airline will save in long-term employee training and maintenance costs.
Frederick W. Reid, the chief operating officer, said Delta had been relatively successful in predicting the decline in traffic around this Sept. 11, the anniversary of the attacks. The airline reduced the number of seats and flights throughout the quarter, and its systemwide capacity was down 8.3 percent from the period two years ago. (Comparisons to 2001 would be less relevant, because of the unusually drastic cutbacks in flights after the terrorist attacks.) 
In the third quarter, Delta also received $22 million from the Air Transportation Stabilization Board, which was set up by the federal government to grant $5 billion in cash assistance to the industry after the attacks.
In the last month, the chief executive, Leo F. Mullin, has joined rival airline executives on Capitol Hill to urge the government to give the industry more financial aid. They are pushing for the government to pick up security costs, as well as costs related to terrorism insurance. 
Late last month, the aviation subcommittee in the House of Representatives proposed a bill that included several very limited provisions to help the carriers, but did not tackle the issues that the executives were most concerned about.
The current legislation, if passed, would extend the government's role in helping to provide war-risk insurance and to accept again applications for a $10 billion loan guarantee program if the United States goes to war with Iraq.
But the legislation would not end a security tax of $2.50 a flight segment that the government has levied on airline tickets. Executives argue that the tax unnecessarily raises ticket prices at a time when people are already reluctant to fly. Mr. Mullin said he expected Delta to forgo $250 million of revenue this year because of this tax.
"I don't think it's done yet, obviously, and we'll continue working on this," he said of the government's proposed aid package.
It is questionable whether this bill would even go to a full vote in the House and the Senate, because many members of Congress are preoccupied with sifting through what is generally considered more important legislation dealing with war against Iraq. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (62%) COMPANY REPORTS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (90%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (90%); BOEING CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: DELTA AIR LINES 

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%)

PERSON: BURNS, M MICHELE; REID, FREDERICK W; WONG, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



468 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Europe Pushes for Renewable Energy 

BYLINE:  By PAUL MELLER 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
Romano Prodi has seen the hydrogen-powered light.
 In an interview today, Mr. Prodi, the president of the European Commission, described his view of Europe in a post-fossil-fuel era, when homes would generate the power they need from renewable sources like the wind and the sun, store it in hydrogen fuel cells and harness it as needed, replacing all the polluting energy sources in use today. 
 He is not just musing. Speaking for the 15-nation European Union at a conference in Johannesburg over the summer, he said the union had set a goal of obtaining 22 percent of its electricity and 12 percent of all energy from renewable sources by 2010. 
Economics and geopolitics are behind the move as much as environmental concerns. Europe depends much more heavily on imported energy than the United States does: around 70 percent of its oil and gas comes from abroad, mainly the Middle East and Russia.
"For us, reducing fossil fuel dependency is a priority," Mr. Prodi said.
The great impediment to wider use of renewable energy has been the difficulty of storing and transporting it for later use, a practical necessity that fossil fuels make relatively simple. Hydrogen may, too, which is why Mr. Prodi takes it so seriously.
Last week, the commission convened the first meeting of a panel of senior executives from European companies with stakes in the matter, like Royal Dutch/Shell, DaimlerChrysler and Rolls-Royce, the aircraft engine maker. The panel will advise the union on the development of hydrogen fuel cells, which promise to be a practical power source for vehicles and fixed use. 
The commission, the executive body of the union, has already earmarked more than 2.1 billion euros ($2 billion) for research over the next five years into sustainable energy projects, a 20-fold increase in the last five years (1997-2001). A central focus will be hydrogen fuel cells, a field where the union has lagged the United States and Japan in publicly financed research.
Mr. Prodi said that Europe was poised to leap ahead of its rivals in its overall energy strategy. "Neither the United States nor Japan is clear on its goals," he said, and without clear goals, there is little progress.
Industry agrees. "The European commission is playing a very significant role now in developing hydrogen fuel cells," said Don Huberts, chief executive of Shell Hydrogen, after the advisory panel met last week. "It is providing a framework for the introduction of the new technologies in the E.U. It would be very hard to convert the environmental benefits into consumer benefits without this political leadership."
Herbert Kohler, director of environmental affairs at DaimlerChrysler, said political support was vital. "For the car industry, we can do a lot ourselves, but at a certain point we need fuel -- and that means involving others," Mr. Kohler said after the meeting. "We need legislative and financial support to stimulate this sector, and for that we need government involvement."
Researchers have been trying for decades to harness hydrogen as a cheap fuel. Mr. Prodi said that now, for the first time, technological advances "give us the message that we are on the eve of being able to do this cost effectively."
"We are not working on a scientific experiment," he continued. "Science is already on board. We are working for change in the most important pattern of consumption of a contemporary society."
Before assuming the presidency of the European Commission, Mr. Prodi was prime minister of Italy, where he was credited with preparing the country to adopt the euro. In Brussels, he has overseen preparations for the European Union to take in 10 new members in 2004.
The energy project is in the same league as these other big ideas, Mr. Prodi said. "The difference is that with enlargement and with the euro, there is a big bang. Not here. My role here is to kick this process off; others will work on its implementation."
But before Mr. Prodi can fulfill his wider energy ambitions, there are still the union's existing energy goals to achieve, notably the creation of a liberalized market in energy within the union. Continuing state ownership and support of some major utilities, like Electricite de France, is creating friction with neighboring nations that have privatized faster.
Even old-fashioned energy monopolies like Electricite de France have a role to play in the energy future Mr. Prodi foresees, he said, by helping with the transition.
Mr. Prodi put the cost of converting Europe to a decentralized energy grid based on hydrogen fuel cells placed at or near the point of energy consumption at about five times the cost of installing a mobile-phone network. "The cost is enormous," he said, "but it is not out of reach."
Without involvement of the private sector, the project will not succeed, he said, but companies will become involved in building the new energy network only if there is a strong political will behind them.
What if the looked-for dawn of cheap hydrogen energy never breaks? "Maybe this will fail," Mr. Prodi said. "But then there are no other serious alternatives."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Romano Prodi, head of the European Commission, is leading a drive for less reliance on fossil fuels and more use of energy from the wind or sun. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE ENERGY (91%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (91%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (74%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); EURO (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (69%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (64%) ENERGY AND POWER; FUEL CELLS; HYDROGEN; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%) EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN COMMISSION; ROYAL DUTCH/SHELL GROUP; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG; ROLLS-ROYCE PLC 

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (82%); RDSA (AMS) (82%); RDS.B (NYSE) (82%); RDS.A (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (82%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%)

PERSON: ROMANO PRODI (92%) MELLER, PAUL; PRODI, ROMANO 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); BELGIUM (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%) EUROPE; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



469 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: Learning to Work in an Heirloom After Life in a Warren 

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
Six weeks into its reincarnation as the headquarters of the New York City school system, the Tweed Courthouse has forced its 600 new inhabitants to make major adjustments.
 For veterans of 110 Livingston Street, the famously dismal building in downtown Brooklyn that housed the central school administration for 63 years, the sunlight dappling the halls of Tweed -- filtered through the stained-glass skylight of a dazzling rotunda, no less -- has been shocking. 
 "From the catacombs to the cathedral, right?" Chancellor Joel I. Klein said as he bustled through the third-floor hallway the other day, sweeping an arm toward the rotunda and grinning wickedly.
Mr. Klein may be the only "educrat," as the central school administrators are known, who is 100 percent pleased with the move to Tweed, which underwent a nearly $100 million renovation starting in 1999. Going from the warren-like offices of 110 Livingston to the airy, bullpen-style rooms that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg installed at Tweed has been, well, unsettling. 
In contrast to the secretive culture that inspired one former chancellor to nickname 110 Livingston "the puzzle palace," all meetings at Tweed are held in the open, at gleaming new tables scattered through the ornamented hallways.
Mr. Klein and Mr. Bloomberg hope the physical change will bring about a profound cultural shift at the Department of Education, one idea being that a beautiful workplace will inspire administrators to work harder on behalf of the city's 1.1 million schoolchildren.
Mr. Bloomberg -- who works in his own bullpen at City Hall, just behind Tweed -- also believes the open layout will encourage cooperative planning and decision-making, neither of which was a hallmark of 110 Livingston.
Norman Fruchter, a New York University professor who studies the school system and has attended several meetings at Tweed, said he was "blown away" by the building's grandeur and believed its large, open spaces could indeed change how school system business is done.
"It does feel very different, to have a meeting with the chancellor or some other folks right in the cubicles or out in one of the public spaces," Mr. Fruchter said. "Before, you were always squirreled away in somebody's office and there was nothing open about it."
Others have noticed a sense of calm and order that they say was never present at 110 Livingston.
"Everything about that place was so chaotic," said Ernest Clayton, president of the United Parents Association of New York City. "It was almost like you were in a subway station. The first thing that strikes you about Tweed is the orderliness and the sense of professionalism."
Some Tweed transplants say that what Mr. Clayton perceives as orderliness, they see as an uncomfortably sterile, hushed environment. Working in the open in such opulent quarters feels oddly like being on display, they say, conjuring images of dioramas at the Museum of Natural History. The casual conversations, jokes and gripe fests that are common in most workplaces are rare at Tweed, these people say, because everything can be overheard.
"So much of the communication at 110 took place in the hallways, in the bathrooms, hanging out in someone's office," one midlevel employee said. "That may be the intent at Tweed, but it's going to be a long time before people feel comfortable having those spontaneous discussions."
Dennis M. Walcott, the deputy mayor for policy, does not consider the discomfort a bad thing.
"There is a higher level of professionalism in the way people are interacting and even dressing at Tweed because you know you are going to run into the boss," said Mr. Walcott, who can wave to Mr. Klein from the window of his City Hall office. "It's not like the boss is disappearing into his 10th-floor office or his car. The boss is suddenly all over the place. And people are looking good."
Back at 110 Livingston, the files, office equipment and personal belongings that were abandoned over the last month and a half would make for a curious archeological study. 
Most of the offices still have desks, computers, copy and fax machines, file cabinets and phones; a few look as if whoever worked there left for a fire drill and might return at any moment. Outside the chancellor's office on the 10th floor, a sign that reads "To teach is to touch someone's life forever" has been left behind, as have several plants, a time clock and a dictionary, opened to the page that starts with digestive and ends with diluter.
A few rooms away, a half-full water cooler remains outside the deputy chancellor's office, along with a refrigerator containing two bottles of salad dressing and some fruit cups. Bound minutes from years of Board of Education meetings are stacked everywhere; Margie Feinberg, a spokeswoman for Mr. Klein, said they might end up at Teachers College of Columbia University. There are also boxes and cabinets jammed with files, some labeled "Tweed," others, "Shred."
David Chai, Mr. Klein's press secretary, said the Department of Education planned to distribute the abandoned equipment and supplies among schools. The city has spent $13 million on new furniture, computers and other equipment for Tweed.
The Police Department has taken over the 11th floor of 110 Livingston, where Board of Education members had their offices. About 160 of the roughly 800 Department of Education employees who worked at 110 Livingston are still there, including some from the Office of Legal Services and the chancellor's district of low-performing schools, Mr. Chai said. Some especially large divisions, like Human Resources, will not move to Tweed but will reside for now in the department's other Brooklyn buildings, including 65 Court Street and 131 Livingston Street.
Refugees from Livingston Street, who have been moving to Tweed in waves since Sept. 3, were allowed to bring only two boxes, which helps explain why the old building is still brimming with paraphernalia.
They sit back to back at L-shaped desks, about 35 to a room, on the second, third and fourth floors of Tweed. Mr. Klein's "L" is toward the back of Room 320, which he shares with senior staff members including Diana Lam, the deputy chancellor for teaching and learning; Anthony Shorris, the deputy chancellor for operations and planning; and Michele Cahill, Mr. Klein's senior policy adviser.
For small meetings, Department of Education employees can huddle on benches or in easy chairs in the circular hallways that look down on the building's street-level floor. For larger ones, there are gleaming new tables scattered through several palatial conference rooms, each with a marble fireplace that "looks like a boar's head should be hanging over it," in the words of one longtime school system official.
Mr. Bloomberg said back in March that he would put a school on Tweed's first floor, and in a news conference yesterday, he offered some vague details. He said that there was not enough space for a traditional school with multiple grades and classrooms, and that instead, he envisioned "a place to try out new things, to experiment, to demonstrate that we can do better." Mr. Bloomberg suggested using the space for teacher training, classes for disabled students or an honors program that would bring students from around the city together and "give them a chance to meet great New Yorkers who have come through the New York City school system and built their careers."
And whither 110 Livingston, which former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani memorably declared should be "blown up"? The Giuliani administration issued a request for proposals in May 2001, hoping that someone would offer to buy not only 110 Livingston but its neighbors, 131 Livingston and 65 Court. But it came to naught, perhaps because of the economic downturn or because at the time nobody could even remotely imagine the Board of Education picking up roots.
Mr. Walcott said that City Hall and the Economic Development Corporation were mulling the buildings' future, and that they might be sold as a package or separately. Asked whether he had a grand vision for the future of 110 Livingston, Mr. Walcott begged off, saying, "I'm not prone to that kind of speculation."
Some Tweed transplants, however, are betting that their former home -- once the headquarters for the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks, a luxurious private club with a ballroom, bowling alleys, Turkish baths and a swimming pool -- will be turned into apartments or loft space. Wistfully, they picture 110 Livingston Street evolving from a notorious address to a coveted one.
"We're talking about some serious work that will have to be done first," one Department of Education employee said, "but it has condos written all over it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, an office overlooking the atrium of the new school system headquarters. Left, offices vacated in Brooklyn, and, left below, cubicles in the chancellor's new office area. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (88%); CHILDREN (78%); CITIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TWEED COURTHOUSE (NYC); RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) GOODNOUGH, ABBY; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); KLEIN, JOEL I (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



470 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns; 
From Bottom Of Bird Cages, An Issue Rises

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW PURDY 

 BODY:
THE problem with writing a newspaper column is that you are forced to be wise and provocative on deadline, whether or not you feel wise and provocative at that moment.
 The payoff is that, inevitably, the deadline is met, newspapers are put out for recycling, and your last attempt is often forgotten by you and everyone else by the time the next deadline rolls around. 
 Unless you happen to run for the United State Senate.
That's why Doug Forrester has a columnist's nightmare on his hands. It turns out that Mr. Forrester, the Republican Senate candidate in New Jersey, wrote a weekly column a decade ago for The West Windsor-Plainsboro Chronicle. Mr. Forrester, a political neophyte enjoying the advantage of having no real record, suddenly has one -- a pile of clippings called Grover's Mill Ponderings. 
He should have called them Ponderings in Courage, given how they are being mined for his true political leanings.
They offer his new opponent, Frank Lautenberg, fodder for a few commercials, since Mr. Forrester opposed an assault weapons ban and sobriety checkpoints as unfair government intervention.
Mr. Forrester's oeuvre offers a rare columnoscopy of this seminarian-turned-government official-turned-businessman-turned-crusader against the ethically flawed Robert Torricelli.
You confront Mr. Forrester's inner stiffness. Of a family Disneyland trip, he wrote, "I, alas, have also made the transition from amusement which is based on a sense of wonder to that which is based on fear."
He thinks hard, perhaps too hard, even about that which is based on pleasure. "There is something about ice cream which reduces all who partake to common ground," he wrote. "Even as the ice cream melts, so do the artificial barriers of economics, social status, age, sex, appearance, and other impediments to the enjoyment of our simple humanity."
He admits past mistakes. "I used to believe that country music was the bastard offspring of bad liquor and low I.Q.'s," he wrote. "No more."
He is vox suburbanite. "I cleaned the garage last week," began one column. Another recounts slaying a shrew in the bathtub. A third is titled, "Men's Last Refuge: The Barbecue."
HIS column was named for the Grover's Mill section of West Windsor, the mythical landing place of Martians in "War of the Worlds." He imagines a morally mythical world, with citizens in control and government in its place.
He chides those building a brick wall between church and state and, at every turn, favors personal freedom over government intervention, saying, "there is a direct relationship between the size of government and the liberty of its citizens." More libertarian than conservative, he sees flag burning as free if distasteful expression.
He now says he supports an assault weapons ban, but his past thinking is revealing. Without proof it would stanch crime, he said, the ban undercut the individual right to do things others view as extreme. He compared it to "someone who smokes tree-size cigars."
"Liberty is all about the government allowing citizens to do weird things unless there is a compelling, documented public purpose which should preclude them," he wrote. "The failure of a majority to understand an activity is not a compelling public purpose."
He never wrote about abortion, but his view that it is a private decision, which the government should neither regulate nor finance, fits that libertarian streak.
Whatever one thinks of Mr. Forrester's style or positions, only one column, "Gossip: The Invisible Assassin," precludes him from the brethren of news hounds. A true journalist would have written, "Gossip: The Invisible Source."
"It is way out of line," he wrote, "to suggest in public that someone is mishandling money unless there is some supporting evidence which has been checked in private. Anyone who is genuinely concerned about a matter and trying to be a good citizen has the opportunity to ask the parties involved to respond before trying to make it an issue of public gossip."
Imagine if he had applied this principle to his race against Mr. Torricelli: "Senator Torricelli, tell me you didn't do what those nasty people say you did so I don't perpetuate gossip by publicly calling you an oozing, disgraceful sore."
But perhaps no columnist can live up to all those deadline ponderings.
"My wife claims that the high point of my political wisdom," Mr. Forrester once wrote, "occurred when I decided to excuse myself from electoral politics." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); WRITERS (73%); GUN CONTROL (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); COUNTRY MUSIC (50%); RELIGION (50%) ELECTIONS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); WEST WINDSOR-PLAINSBORO CHRONICLE 

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (70%) PURDY, MATTHEW; FORRESTER, DOUGLAS; LAUTENBERG, FRANK R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



471 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Bank of America Beats Estimates, and Share Price Jumps 

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Bank of America reported third-quarter earnings yesterday that exceeded analysts' estimates, as profits from retail operations more than offset weakness in investment banking and trading. 
 Earnings at Bank One in Chicago and at Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, were in line with analysts' expectations. 
 Shares in the banks rose sharply on the news. 
Bank of America, based in Charlotte, N.C., said that a strong performance in its retail operations including mortgages, credit cards and deposits increased net income to $2.24 billion, or $1.45 a share, in the third quarter from $841 million, or 51 cents a share, a year earlier. 
The 2001 figures included costs related to leaving the auto leasing and subprime real estate lending businesses as well as a good will write-down. 
Analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call had expected earnings of $1.41 for the quarter. 
Shares increased $5.04 yesterday, to close at $65.75. The bank chairman, Kenneth D. Lewis, said that strength in retail operations had offset weakness in market-related revenue from trading and equity investments. 
The chief financial officer, James Hance Jr., said he expected fourth-quarter performance "to look a lot like the third." He said consumer banking continued to be strong and that there was some improvement in commercial lending. Net income for the first nine months was $6.64 billion, or $4.22 a share, up from $4.73 billion, or $2.90 a share, a year ago. 
At Bank One, third-quarter profit increased to $823 million, or 70 cents a share, from $754 million, or 64 cents a share, a year earlier. 
That was in line with the estimates by Thomson First Call. 
Shares increased $2.61, to $39.74.
The chief executive, James L. Dimon, said retail operations "had net growth in transaction accounts for the first time in nearly three years" and that nonperforming commercial loans were down for the first time in three years. 
Net income for the first nine months was $2.45 billion, or $2.08 a share, compared with $2.1 billion, or $1.78 a share, in 2001. 
At Wells Fargo, third-quarter earnings were propelled by low mortgage rates and a surge in new depositors. The bank earned $1.44 billion, or 84 cents a share, in the quarter, up from $1.16 billion, or 67 cents a share, a year earlier. That matched the consensus of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call.
Shares climbed $2.55, to $49.78.
With mortgage rates low, millions of homeowners have been refinancing, which has been a boon for Wells Fargo. 
Through the first nine months, Wells's mortgage volume totaled $221 billion, more than its previous full-year record of $202 billion in 2001. 
In the third quarter, the bank collected $6 billion in revenue, a 10 percent improvement from the period last year. Through the first nine months, revenue totaled $18 billion, a 26 percent gain from last year. 
Loan losses in the third quarter totaled $415 million, down from $454 million a year earlier. 
In the first nine months, Wells earned $3.97 billion, or $2.30 a share, up from $2.24 billion, or $1.29 a share, last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); RETAIL BANKING (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (74%); EXECUTIVES (66%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (65%) BANKS AND BANKING; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (94%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF AMERICA; BANK ONE; WELLS FARGO & CO 

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); BAC (NYSE) (94%); BAC (LSE) (94%); 8648 (TSE) (94%); JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (87%); KENNETH D LEWIS (74%) LEWIS, KENNETH D; HANCE, JAMES H JR; DIMON, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (92%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



472 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
In the High-Tech Sector,Optimism Is Just a Faded Memory

BYLINE:  By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SCOTTSDALE, Ariz., Oct. 15 

 BODY:
At this year's Agenda conference, traditionally an upbeat gathering of the computer and Internet industries' elite, attendance was low and the mood even lower. Executives engaged in a hunt for the bottom of the decline with few seeing even a hint of new growth on the horizon.
 For the first time, those who have had a near-religious faith in enduring technical progress debated whether their industry had become a slower-growing and mature one. Some executives dared to express the view that the boom years of double-digit growth and dot-com wealth might be over not temporarily but permanently. 
 "A lot of people don't want to admit that the technology industry is maturing," said Ann Livermore, an executive vice president of Hewlett-Packard who leads the company's services division. "It's a maturing industry with a slowing growth rate."
Some executives offered another view, saying that it was not the industry's maturity but the rapid pace of the technology development driven by Moore's Law -- the doubling of computing capacity every 18 months -- that has created the industry's financial crisis. 
For example, they argued, taking on huge long-term debt burdens during the telecommunications industry build-out of the 1990's was out of sync with the rapid depreciation and obsolescence of computer-based equipment.
Whatever the cause of the crisis, several of those who attended were even more blunt about the prospects of the industry, which until last year was held out as a bright spot and a national economic savior.
"The tech industry is in danger of looking like Japan: it's down and out for a long time," said Rob Glaser, the chairman and chief executive of RealNetworks, a maker of multimedia software.
Several of the nation's leading technologists expressed the view that the technology downturn was an immediate threat to the nation's global industrial standing.
"Maybe our current downsizing in the U.S. tech industry is a permanent downsizing and we are headed toward being a second-class industrial citizen in the world," said Patrick Gelsinger, vice president and chief technology officer of Intel.
The new pessimism, which has become increasingly common in Silicon Valley, contrasts sharply to the prevailing view among high-tech executives last year. The consensus then was that the technology recession would be characterized by a "v-shaped curve" with a sharp decline and quick recovery.
At this year's conference, however, it was apparent this idea had passed. "We're talking in terms of years, not months," said Eric Schmidt, the chief executive of Google, the Internet search engine company, which, although privately held, is one of Silicon Valley's remaining bright spots.
This year's gathering was also distinguished by the presence of politics and national security issues in a forum that had until now been dominated by technology and the economy.
On Monday, Richard Garwin, a national security expert and former I.B.M. physicist, engaged in what was billed as a fireside chat with the conference moderator, James Fallows. Dr. Garwin spelled out various potential doomsday terrorism threats ranging from nuclear war to biological warfare.
On Tuesday the conference for the first time presented a speaker from what could only be described as the old economy: Charles T. Burbage, the executive vice president and general manager of Lockheed Martin's Joint Strike Fighter program.
The new interest in military technology is being driven at least in part by a search for financial growth. David Readerman, director of growth equity strategy at Thomas Weisel Partners, a San Francisco investment firm, said that military contractors were increasingly of interest to him.
"I'm not finding a lot of growth in the technology areas our firm was founded on," he said. "So we cast a net and the defense sector is what comes up."
The most heated debate of the event came during a panel of Hollywood executives who criticized the technology industries for their lax adherence to intellectual property protection and copyright issues in the digital era. 
That evoked a response from many executives here that the entertainment industry's unwillingness to explore new business models was primarily responsible for the industry's lack of growth. 
"We're in a real technology gridlock," said Peter Schwartz, co-founder and chairman of the Global Business Network, a consulting group based in Emeryville, Calif. "All of the entrenched industries are attempting to protect their positions so that in broadband, digital television and digital distribution of content, we're stuck." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRADE SHOWS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); MULTIMEDIA SOFTWARE (62%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (60%); RELIGION (56%); SEARCH ENGINES (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (79%); ANN LIVERMORE (58%) MARKOFF, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



473 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Israeli Hints at Withdrawal From a 2nd West Bank City 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
Israel's defense minister suggested today that the army might withdraw from a second West Bank city by the weekend, sounding a conciliatory note as Prime Minister Ariel Sharon arrived in Washington to meet with President Bush.
 The Bush administration, seeking support for a possible war on Iraq, has recently criticized Israel, saying it has not kept its promises to ease the plight of Palestinians. The Americans have also questioned recent Israeli military actions, particularly in the Gaza Strip, citing the danger to civilians. 
 Mr. Bush's meeting with Mr. Sharon is expected to focus on Iraq rather than Israeli-Palestinian relations. But advisers to Mr. Sharon said he is anxious to fend off any hint that Mr. Bush may try to gain Arab support or acquiescence in an Iraq venture by promising Israeli concessions toward the Palestinians.
Mr. Sharon temporarily left behind a tense, troubled country. With municipal workers on strike, the smell of burning garbage filled the air here today, and waste piled up on street corners and around overflowing trash cans. 
In a speech on Monday in which he called on Palestinians to replace their leadership, Mr. Sharon also demanded that the strikers and others "make painful compromises" for "our very existence and livelihood." That call has gone unheeded, as the prime minister prepares for a difficult political fight to win passage of a budget meant to relieve what he called "this economic crisis." 
Four Israelis were slightly wounded today by broken glass after something hit a bus in northern Israel, near the boundary with the West Bank. The police said they were not certain whether Palestinians opened fire on the bus, whether a gun was accidentally discharged, or whether there was some other cause. 
"We know that it was a bullet," said Gil Kleiman, a police spokesman. But the police later said that machinery might have sent bits of metal or rocks flying at the bus. 
The defense minister, Benjamin Ben-Eliezer, said during a visit to France that Israel was in "intensive talks on widening the area" of Israeli withdrawal in the southern West Bank. He mentioned Hebron, saying he hoped the army would leave by the end of the week "if the conditions in the field will allow it."
Israel seized control of seven of the eight West Bank cities in midsummer, after a devastating suicide attack on a bus in Jerusalem, but withdrew from Bethlehem two months ago after gaining assurances from Palestinian officials that the city would remain quiet. Bethlehem was supposed to be a test case, but though the city has remained relatively calm, Israel has made no further withdrawals, citing violence elsewhere in the West Bank. 
The Israeli police today detained the chief Muslim cleric here, Ikrema Sabri, the mufti of Jerusalem. The police said he was questioned for about three hours on a report in an Arab newspaper that he had called suicide bombing a form of self-defense. 
Leaving the police station this afternoon, Mr. Sabri, who was appointed to his post by Yasir Arafat, told reporters the report was inaccurate. "I clarified my positions," he said.
Mr. Sabri was also detained for about three hours and questioned on Sept. 14, 2001. He said then that the police had accused him of incitement in his sermons.

GRAPHIC: Map of the West Bank, Israel, highlighting Hebron: Hebron is the focus of talk of a possible pullback by Israelis. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TERRORISM (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); STRIKES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); SHOOTINGS (69%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (69%); SUICIDE (68%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (60%) PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); BENNET, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (79%) ISRAEL; HEBRON (WEST BANK); WEST BANK

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



474 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Deep Pockets Aside, Forrester Is Short on Donors 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
Douglas R. Forrester has raised barely $1 million from individual donors since winning the New Jersey Republican Senate primary in June, according to campaign records filed with the Federal Election Commission today. The sum is considerably less than political analysts had expected and raises questions about how well his campaign will be able to compete as the Senate race goes into its final three weeks.
 Mr. Forrester also received $200,000 from the National Republican Senatorial Committee and lent his campaign an additional $1.3 million from his personal assets, leaving him with $2.6 million cash in the bank. But Democrats expect to spend at least $10 million on the campaign of former Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, in a state where Republicans have not won a Senate race in 30 years and Mr. Forrester remains barely known. 
 Mr. Forrester's campaign tried to put a brave face on its financial showing, saying that it was still collecting an additional $280,000 from the fund-raiser featuring President Bush last month and that it had seen a spike in donations in recent weeks, including two $50,000 events today. 
Appearing at a fund-raiser with Senator John McCain of Arizona, Mr. Forrester said that he would have more than enough money to get his message to voters, and that he felt gratified his campaign forced Senator Robert G. Torricelli, the Democratic incumbent, to withdraw from the race last month.
But many analysts, and even some New Jersey Republicans, conceded that Mr. Forrester's fund-raising effort had been disappointing. Joseph R. Kyrillos Jr., chairman of the New Jersey Republican Party, blamed a weak economy and the perception that, until his ethics problems snowballed and forced him to withdraw from the race on Sept. 30, Mr. Torricelli was too formidable an opponent to be beaten by a political neophyte.
Mr. Kyrillos also said that many would-be donors assumed that Mr. Forrester -- who spent $3 million of his own money on the primary, but said he could not underwrite the bulk of a general election campaign -- was wealthy enough to pay for the entire campaign himself.
"There was an unfortunate signal sent early on, inadvertently, that Doug can finance his own race -- which is not the case," he said. "Mr. Forrester is a self-made man and he's a successful businessman, but he's not Jon Corzine. He can't afford to pay $68 million on a campaign."
Mr. Forrester has given his primary and general election campaign $7.5 million over all.
Because Mr. Lautenberg entered the race just this month, he is not required to file his financial statement until next week, but officials from both parties expect that he will have a considerable financial advantage. Mr. Lautenberg, who served in the Senate for 18 years, has said he expects to raise about $3 million between now and Election Day. 
The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee recently spent more than $1.5 million to purchase television time for Mr. Lautenberg's ads, which are scheduled to begin this week, and has earmarked an additional $4.5 million for New Jersey, party officials said.
Mr. Lautenberg has also given $1 million of his own to the campaign, according to Democratic officials, and has agreed to spend up to $2 million more. After receiving an endorsement from the Black Minister's Council of New Jersey today, Mr. Lautenberg said he hoped that it would not be necessary for him to dip further into his own assets.
"The old gray mare ain't what she used to be," he said of his finances.
Mr. Lautenberg's advisers tried to portray Mr. Forrester's fund-raising performance as evidence that he was out of touch with New Jersey voters.
"He has no money because he has no message," said Tom Shea, the campaign spokesman. "Why would people give money to someone who is so much more conservative than the rest of the state on all of the issues?"
Others say that Mr. Forrester's biggest fund-raising problem is the current disarray within New Jersey's Republican Party, which is still reeling after losing control of the governor's mansion and both houses of the Legislature last fall. Compounding that problem is that many of the party's most proven fund-raisers are unable to help raise money for the Forrester campaign. Clifford M. Sobel is now serving as American ambassador to the Netherlands, Christopher J. Christie became the United States attorney for New Jersey, Lewis Eisenberg became chairman of the Republican National Committee in Washington and Candace Straight is running her own race for Essex County executive.
Despite those obstacles, Mr. Forrester's aides say he is confident he will raise enough money to prevail.
"I don't know anybody who would be disappointed with the fact that Doug Forrester kept his first camp promise -- to retire Bob Torricelli," said Bill Pascoe, his campaign manager. "We're in a new race now, against Doug's seventh opponent, and he's still committed to making sure that the campaign has all the resources that will be necessary on Election Day."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Douglas R. Forrester, left, with Senator John McCain in Ridgewood, N.J., yesterday. Mr. McCain attended a fund-raiser for Mr. Forrester. (Lara Solt for The New York Times); Frank R. Lautenberg at a State House event yesterday. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (77%) ELECTIONS; PRIMARIES; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (84%) SENATE (US) 

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (88%); JON CORZINE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID; FORRESTER, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



475 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: THE 2002 CAMPAIGN: THE REPUBLICANS; 
G.O.P. Chairman Says Economy Won't Hurt His Party at Polls

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
The Republican national chairman today dismissed the Democratic Party's response to the nation's economic problems as "impotent," and said he did not believe that a fall campaign revolving around the economy would hurt his party's Congressional candidates.
 The chairman, Marc Racicot, said Republican candidates were prepared to battle Democrats over the economy notwithstanding Democrats' assertion that the issue plays to their strength. 
 In a 90-minute discussion over lunch with editors and reporters of The New York Times, Mr. Racicot also disputed the Democrats' argument that in focusing intently on Iraq, President Bush had neglected the economy. Actually, he said, Mr. Bush has given as much attention to domestic issues as to national security, but most of the public is unaware of it because it has not often been reported by news organizations. 
"Even though he has simultaneously been addressing economic issues, they are not the object of your reports, frequently," Mr. Racicot said. "And that's understandable. But I think that has somehow created the misperception that he has not been as focused on the economy, which is simply not the case. There has never been a wanting of his attention on those issues."
Jennifer Palmieri, a spokeswoman for the Democratic National Committee, disputed Mr. Racicot, saying the voters would hold Republicans and the president accountable.
"Here's the evidence that Bush is not paying enough attention to the economy: Unemployment is up, incomes are down, the stock market has experienced record losses," Ms. Palmieri said. "Did I say that poverty is rising? Poverty is rising, and 401(k)'s are falling."
With the Congressional votes on an Iraq resolution now over and the lawmakers near recess, Mr. Racicot's aggressive remarks today appeared to signal a Republican effort to get out in front of Democrats as the campaign moves into what both sides say will be an increased emphasis on domestic issues in the closing three weeks. Only today, Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the House Democratic leader, offered a $200 billion package of tax cuts and spending to help the economy.
Throughout recent weeks, senior members of both parties argued that the debate on Iraq had helped the Republicans, by keeping Democrats from talking about the domestic problems that might help them win the election.
But with the Iraq issue receding from the floor of Congress, at least for now, Mr. Racicot said today that he was not concerned. He argued that Democrats had failed to make a case that they could handle the nation's economy, and said voters were more comfortable with Republicans in charge.
"As the loyal opposition, if you don't like something, you ought to advance an alternative," he said. "They do nothing. They have been impotent to move forward an agenda. And I think there is overwhelming proof of that, and that is why we feel comfortable talking about the economy."
"I've never believed it was strong Democratic ground," Mr. Racicot said of economic issues. "I think the polling shows the American people trust the Republicans more to deal with the economy than the opposition. I think that is more a perception that people have somehow subscribed to."
He also said his party had not advised its candidates to invoke Congress's Iraq votes while campaigning this fall. But he has encouraged them, he said, to attack Democrats for opposing the president's version of the legislation that would create a Department of Homeland Security.
The chairman also belittled former Vice President Al Gore for resurrecting discussion of the disputed Florida vote that cost him the 2000 presidential election. In speeches in Iowa this week, Mr. Gore recalled the problems at the Florida polls in urging Democrats to vote. 
"He's a complete mystery to me," Mr. Racicot said of the former vice president. "I don't what he's doing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marc Racicot, chairman of the Republican National Committee. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); TAX LAW (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%) HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; RACICOT, MARC; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



476 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Shaping Strategy With Israel 

 BODY:
As a potential target of Iraq's unconventional weapons, Israel is a crucially interested party in America's looming confrontation with Baghdad. When Prime Minister Ariel Sharon meets with President Bush today in Washington, the two leaders need to discuss ways that Israel can defend its citizens without undercutting American diplomatic and military strategy.
 These are sensitive subjects. Mr. Sharon's recent loose talk about retaliation against Iraq could make things easier for Saddam Hussein. And while Israel's need to defend itself is obvious, it has been doing so in ways that are causing unnecessary suffering of innocent Palestinians, complicating America's relations with Arab and Muslim countries whose support is needed against Iraq. 
 When Baghdad launched conventionally armed Scud missiles against Israel during the 1991 Persian Gulf war, Israeli leaders wisely agreed to let Washington respond. Mr. Sharon has suggested that he might not be restrained if Iraq attacked Israeli cities again, especially if it used biological or chemical weapons. Raising the possibility of a devastating Israeli counterattack is one thing. Actually carrying one out is another. The last thing Mr. Sharon should want is to let Baghdad shift the focus off its own illegal weapons and onto the possibility of a new Arab-Israeli war.
In the battle against Palestinian violence, Israel has increased its military pressures in recent weeks, especially in the Gaza Strip, leading to a corresponding rise in the suffering of Palestinian bystanders. In a letter to Mr. Sharon last week, Mr. Bush rightly urged greater restraint. Suggestions that Israel may soon withdraw troops from Hebron are welcome. Overall conditions in the territories have grown truly desperate. 
Figures presented to Israel's cabinet earlier this week by the coordinator of government activities in the territories, Maj. Gen. Amos Gilad, show that three in five Palestinians now live below the World Bank's official poverty line, and an even higher percentage depend on international humanitarian aid for survival. 
It is not enough, as Mr. Sharon did Monday, to blame the disastrous leadership of Yasir Arafat for this suffering, although that is certainly a major factor. So long as Israel occupies the territories, it has a responsibility to ease the plight of the roughly three million Palestinians living there. It also has an interest in doing so. The democratic election of more enlightened Palestinian leadership is unlikely to emerge from such widespread misery.
It is reasonable for Mr. Bush, facing war in the Mideast, to ask his closest regional ally to contribute constructively toward the mutually desirable goal of disarming Iraq. Reducing unnecessary Palestinian suffering is one requirement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); DISARMAMENT (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) IRAQ; ISRAEL; WEST BANK; GAZA STRIP

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



477 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: THE 2002 CAMPAIGN: A DEMOCRATIC PROPOSAL; 
Gephardt Offers Tax Cut in Economic Plan

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
Representative Richard A. Gephardt set out a Democratic proposal today to stimulate the economy, calling for $75 billion in one-time tax cuts and $125 billion in new spending as part of a strategy to create jobs and restore growth.
 Mr. Gephardt, the House Democratic leader from Missouri, detailed his ideas in a speech just three weeks before the midterm elections. His party is making a concerted effort to turn attention away from the just-concluded Congressional debate over Iraq and back to the economy. 
 Mr. Gephardt, a possible presidential contender in 2004 who faced criticism from his party for working with President Bush to authorize the use of force in Iraq, accompanied his plan with scathing criticism of the administration's economic record as "an abdication of leadership."
"The president should not ask for bipartisanship on Iraq and then turn his back on bipartisan efforts to promote jobs and economic growth," Mr. Gephardt said in the speech sponsored by the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal policy group.
"The fact is America faces a clear and present danger to the economic life of working families," he said. "But all the president and the Republican House have offered is an extreme ideology of trickle-down economics and ineffective gimmicks."
Several senior Senate Democrats as well as an independent, Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont, took to the floor today to amplify Mr. Gephardt's criticism of the administration. 
Senator Tom Daschle, the majority leader, accused Mr. Bush of campaigning too much, saying "he needs to spend less time trying to save the jobs of Republican politicians and more time trying to save the jobs of average Americans." 
In a sign of the debate's political importance, House Republican leaders, swiftly branded Mr. Gephardt as a old-style, big government Democrat. "Dick Gephardt offers regurgitated ideas from the Democrats' outdated tax-and-spend playbook," said Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader. 
But the White House struck a different tone. Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, said of the proposal for $75 billion in tax cuts or rebates, "The idea of tax incentives to help stimulate growth is always an interesting idea."
The debate takes place as the economy is clearly a rising public concern. Republicans are circulating a memorandum from Matthew Dowd, Mr. Bush's pollster, warning Republican candidates that "a majority of the public thinks the economy is going in the wrong direction." 
"Thus far the public hasn't heard a single positive message from Democrats on the issue," Mr. Dowd said.
Senator Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma and the assistant minority leader, made the same point in the Senate today, saying Democrats "just want to throw rocks at the president."
Clearly sensitive to that accusation, Mr. Gephardt offered a five-point plan under the rubric of a "new economic agenda for a new House."
The plan's long-term measures included cuts in corporate welfare, as well as measures to make pensions more portable; to raise the minimum wage by $1.50, to $6.65, an hour by 2004; and to make the treatment of corporate executives' stock and pension plans more commensurate to that of employee plans.
He said his plan would move "beyond rigid left-right thinking to promote economic growth as soon as possible." The Republican economic strategy, by contrast, he said, "has become an amalgam of patronage for the wealthy, passivity and denial."
Mr. Gephardt is often considered liberal. But his proposals for short-term tax cuts and spending were a mixture that could appeal to Democratic centrists and liberals. The centrists could rally to the call for tax cuts for the less well off and for business. The liberals could embrace the call for spending on school construction, health care and homeland security.
Like many Democrats, Mr. Gephardt did not call for a rollback of Mr. Bush's 10-year tax cut program, though he noted he had voted against it as the right prescription for the economy.
"The one thing you don't do when you're in slow or no growth going into a recession is raise taxes," Mr. Gephardt said. "You cut taxes." 
He did not detail his proposals for $75 billion in tax reductions beyond saying they should be "rebates or credits for working families and one-time tax incentives for company investment." 
His only hint that he might one day consider slowing the fulfilling of Mr. Bush's $1.35 trillion tax cut came when he proposed using "triggers and caps" that could be applied to both spending and tax cuts to restore long-term fiscal discipline. He did not, however, specify any domestic spending programs he would trim.
Many centrists in Congress have spoken of using triggers to make tax cuts contingent on the performance of the economy.
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, by contrast, in a speech today, did call for parts of Mr. Bush's tax cut to be reconsidered, saying it was time "to put on the table future tax cuts for the wealthiest individuals."
House Republicans are also promoting tax cuts and other economic measures in the waning days of the Congress as Election Day nears.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Richard A. Gephardt unveiled an economic plan yesterday that included elements meant to appeal to centrists and liberals. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL DEBATES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); FAMILY (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TOM DASCHLE (58%) MITCHELL, ALLISON; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REP) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



478 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Bill For Business Groups 

BYLINE:  By Jennifer Steinhauer (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg signed a bill yesterday authorizing 19 business improvement districts to increase the amount that they can request of their members for annual expenses. 
The districts' budgets would range from from $85,000 to $11 million. The bill, brought to the City Council at the mayor's request, was needed, Mr. Bloomberg said, because operating costs for districts have increased and the organizations have plans for enhanced services and programs. The bill applies to 19 of the 44 BID's. Most of the affected BID's have not increased their budgets for at least four years, and this is the first increase for six of them. Jennifer Steinhauer (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); TRENDS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



479 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Offers Investors a Bag of Mixed Messages 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
For a company that is selling sport utility vehicles and pickups at a blistering pace and making progress in cutting costs that were out of control a few years ago, General Motors offered investors an oddly mixed outlook today.
 First, the good news. Despite reporting a much wider third-quarter net loss, the profit of the company's North American operations grew 15 percent. And its operating earnings, excluding a huge write-down related to its investment in the Italian conglomerate Fiat's auto business, handily beat analysts' expectations. 
 The market, in a bullish mood over all today, rewarded the company with a big rally, driving G.M. shares up 10.3 percent, or $3.44, to $36.70.
Now, the bad news. What happens next year and beyond? Of foremost concern are G.M.'s enormous health care and pension obligations, which some analysts fear could outstrip its cash flow for the next couple years. The stock market's recent decline is not helping. G.M. said today that its pension assets had fallen 10 percent through September and that the decline would cost the company $1 billion, or $1.80 a share, in earnings next year. The company will probably not be able to offset the new requirements with more cutbacks, G.M. officials said today. 
Further, G.M.'s reliance on ever-accelerating incentive deals, like interest-free financing, is not improving its profitability and is seen as a sign of underlying sickness. Despite strong auto sales, the company's profits, while more robust than its weaker crosstown rival, Ford Motor, have been relatively slight. And what happens if, as many analysts believe, sales fall next year?
Such fears, along with the market's overall weakness, pushed G.M.'s stock to 10-year lows last week from a high of $68.02 in May. While most analysts agree G.M. is in much better shape than Ford, a variety of factors could send its foray into the sunlight back into eclipse.
At Fidelity Investments, the nation's largest mutual fund manager, G.M. was replaced by Toyota among the top five holdings of the Fidelity Select Automotive fund during the third quarter. The fund's manager, Kelly Cardwell, is looking beyond manufacturers for many of his top investment ideas. 
"If you had to pick, you'd go with the suppliers first," said Mr. Cardwell, who also serves as an auto analyst for Fidelity's fund family. "Their pension issues are less onerous and they tend to have better cash flow." Incentive costs, he added, are "coming out of the Big Three's income statements and the retailers are getting the free ride."
Ronald Tadross, an analyst at Bank of America, said G.M. was "walking this tightrope between how much cash flow they're generating and their pension needs."
"We're at a peak environment in terms of sales and they should be making more money," he added.
For the third quarter, G.M. posted a net loss of $804 million, or $1.42 a share, compared with a loss of $368 million, or 41 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Revenue increased 2.6 percent, to $43.6 billion.
G.M.'s third-quarter profits were wiped out by a write-down in its investment in 20 percent of Fiat's auto business, to just $220 million from $2.4 billion. Excluding the Fiat write-down and other one-time items, earnings grew to $615 million, or $1.20 a share, compared with $385 million, or 85 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. On that basis, analysts had expected G.M. to earn 99 cents a share in the latest quarter, according to Thomson First Call.
But Wall Street is still concerned with the rest of the Fiat deal. Fiat has an option to sell the remaining 80 percent of its car business to G.M. between 2004 and 2009, holding out the prospect of combining Fiat's struggling auto operations with G.M.'s struggling European arm. Some analysts say G.M.'s motivation for such a steep write-downs was to establish a low value in case the purchase is forced on it, though G.M. denied that was a factor.
"I think if you combine the pension and health care issues and Fiat, you have some issues they have to work through," said Stephen J. Girsky, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, adding that the company would have difficulty reaching its earnings goal of $10 a share annually by mid-decade. 
"They need some things to break their way for $10 to happen," Mr. Girsky said. "North America has to continue to show improvement and Europe needs to get out of the red."
The company's share of the North American passenger car market continues to show weakness, falling from 26.6 percent a year ago to 25.1 percent. Its share of the light truck market -- including sport utility vehicles and pickups -- rose to 30.6 percent from 28.6 percent.
For much of the 1990's, G.M. was the dowdy company that couldn't. It built Buicks and Oldsmobiles and Pontiacs that all looked alike and inspired little love. Last year, the company's resurgence was led by flashy sport utility vehicles and by surprising strides in the improvement of manufacturing operations.
But there has been some speculation that the company's momentum may be stalling.
"The concern has been twofold, the combination of the economy -- is the consumer going to go away? -- and the balance-sheet issues, in particular pensions," said John Devine, G.M.'s chief financial officer. "We're not ducking them, we're trying to lay them out as transparently as we can.
"In this market it pays to have a negative view, and you're seeing that," he added. "On the other hand, if you look at what we've done, and the progress we've made, I think G.M. stock is a pretty good deal."

GRAPHIC: Photos: G.M.'s reliance on ever-accelerating incentive deals is not improving its profitability. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C1); On the positive side, Rick Wagoner, the chief executive of G.M., saw the profit of the company's North American operations grow 15 percent. (Michael Nagle/The New York Times)(pg. C4) Chart: "A Volatile Year"General Motors' stock, which investors bid up earlier this year, has taken a big tumble from its high of $68.02 in May. Yesterday, the stock jumped more than 10 percent, to $36.70, in response to a profit report that beat expectations. Graph tracks the daily closing of General Motors compared to S. & P.500 Index since Dec. 31, 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CASH FLOW (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); RETAILERS (73%); RETAIL SALES (69%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (64%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); FMR CORP (72%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (72%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (72%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (72%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (72%) HAKIM, DANNY; WAGONER, RICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002 



480 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: Shedding Egos, Joining Forces; 
Museums Team Up to Foot the Bill and Find the Space for Art

BYLINE:  By CAROL VOGEL 

 BODY:
When the pioneering video artist Bill Viola's biggest and most important work was up for sale at the Anthony d'Offay Gallery in London last year, several major museums coveted it. But the work, "Five Angels for the Millennium," a 13-minute video depicting figures sequentially ascending and descending into pools of water, did not come cheap.
 Any one of the museums could have dipped into its acquisitions budget or asked a donor for $700,000 to buy the room-size work, which requires an arsenal of equipment, including five ceiling-mounted projectors, each accompanied by its own DVD player and speakers. 
 Owning the video surely would have been a feather in any museum's cap, but after the initial viewing, then what? Most museums, even those with newly enlarged galleries, would be able to show it for no more than a few months at a time. Between showings, the video would languish in storage along with thousands of other rare works of art that museums simply have no room to exhibit. 
So the Whitney Museum of American Art, the Tate Modern in London and the Georges Pompidou Center in Paris made an unprecedented decision. They joined forces to buy "Five Angels for the Millennium" with the help of several donors: Leonard A. Lauder, the Whitney's chairman, put in the Whitney's share; Lynn Forester de Rothschild, a collector and friend of the Tate, donated the Tate's portion; and the Pompidou Center is looking for someone to step in and contribute the remaining third. 
A decade ago the museums would have competed for the purchase. Now, as joint owners of the video, the only question is who will show it first? Museums that were keen competitors are bonding in ways they never have before, driven by the rising cost of acquisitions, escalating operating expenses and a kind of bottom-line common sense vital in today's rocky economy. 
Museum directors, like shopaholics, find it hard to resist a purchase, even when there's little room to show it off. Much of the art produced today requires more space than a traditional-size gallery can accommodate. Collections have to grow and change with the times and to give audiences something new to see. And while contemporary art may start out being affordable, as artists like Mr. Viola gain in stature, their prices rise to levels that give even the richest donors pause. 
"We all acknowledge that the 21st century is a century of networks," said Kathy Halbreich, director of the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis. "These days none of us can afford to go it alone." 
Last spring, before Neal Benezra started his job as director of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, he heard the museum was looking for a partner to buy the Cuban-born artist Felix Gonzalez-Torres's first self-portrait. He turned to the Chicago Art Institute, where he had been deputy director and curator of modern and contemporary art. Well aware that the Chicago Art Institute was trying to beef up its contemporary art holdings, Mr. Benezra suggested that the two museums pool their resources to buy the work, valued at $500,000. 
Joint ownership seemed natural since the Gonzalez-Torres is a text-based work in which the artist's image is conveyed through words painted on a wall. It exists only according to the instructions prescribed by the artist, who died in 1996. (The buyer, in this case the two museums, gets a set of instructions along with a certificate of authenticity and ownership. And unlike creators of some conceptual work, who do not allow it to be shown more than one place at a time, Gonzalez-Torres made no such stipulations.)
Aside from economic considerations that lead museums to collaborate, the kind of art being produced today lends itself more readily to group ownership. Video works require space for display and rely on sophisticated technology that gets quickly out of date. Pieces like the Gonzalez-Torres or wall drawings by masters like Sol LeWitt rely on specific artist's instructions but do not actually require the hand of the creator. And partnerships are at the heart of the process of Internet art. 
"While possessions have been the basis for how museums operate, artists today are testing something more elastic," said Maxwell L. Anderson, director of the Whitney and president of the Association of Art Museum Directors. "The Internet is an especially interdependent world, and younger artists are especially more open to collaborations."
Museums are pooling their resources in other ways, too. Carol Mancusi-Ungaro, a star restorer and conservator who specializes in modern and contemporary paintings, has such an unusual skill that she is on the staff of both the Whitney and the Harvard University Art Museums. Others, like the Museum of Modern Art in New York and the Tate Gallery in London are promoting exchange programs between curators. The Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum is in talks with the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art to lend it a large chunk of the Guggenheim's permanent collection, including large-scale works that will fit in the giant MassMOCA galleries for extended periods.
"I can't see a downside," said Ms. Halbreich of the Walker, who helped arrange with the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art the joint purchase of Matthew Barney's "Cremaster 2: The Drones' Exposition." The fourth video installation of his five-part saga, the work includes sculptures as well as film and takes up about 2,500 square feet. "We just have to park our egos outside the door," she said.
Still, "that doesn't mean we will no longer be competitive," warned Alfred Pacquement, director of the Pompidou Center. "I hope we all don't show the same artists and do the same projects. We each have to have our own personalities." 
Because each institution is so different, negotiating a joint acquisition like the Viola video was not easy. Talks went on for nearly a year before the purchase was complete. Lawyers for the three museums had to hammer out a formula for how to share the work including presentation dates and maintenance costs. The contract, one lawyer said, had to be simple and comprehensive enough to hold up for decades.
"Joint ownership is much more feasible in new media than other areas," said Sir Nicholas Serota, director of the Tate, about the Viola work. "Fortunately we're not talking about a work of art that's going to be damaged or deteriorate by travel. This is a response to the high market prices for works of art. Why shouldn't museums fight back and share?"
Thomas Krens, director of the Guggenheim, said he saw the benefits of partnerships years ago, although most museum directors shun the comparison, saying that the alliances he has formed on behalf of the Guggenheim are born more out of desire for empire building than a love for art.
His first project, completed in 1997, involved getting the government of the Basque region in Spain to agree to pay for the cost of building a $100 million museum in the economically depressed city of Bilbao. Besides the building itself (which the Spanish government pays to operate) the arrangement includes a $50 million acquisitions budget. Since then, the Guggenheim has opened a branch in Berlin and formed partnerships with the Hermitage in St. Petersburg, Russia, and the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. 
Often these arrangements involve joint acquisitions. Even counting all its branches and partnerships, the Guggenheim has more art in its permanent collection than it can show. The arrangement under discussion with MassMOCA would be beneficial to both museums. The Guggenheim would get a chunk of its vast permanent collection out of storage, itself a cost-cutting measure, and spread its name to Massachusetts. The fledgling Massachusetts museum would get a body of important work that, like a permanent collection, is likely to be a constant visitor attraction. 
"It will strengthen the museum to have core works," said Joseph C. Thompson, director of MassMOCA.
"It's unlikely many of these works will make their way out of storage once every 10 years," Mr. Krens said. He does not pretend that collaboration is a new idea. Few people today remember that in 1947, a time when Americans were predicting the country could suffer from another depression, a far more radical idea was being hatched than any of the alliances being created today.
The Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art and the Whitney had plans to become inextricably linked. For a brief moment that year they formally agreed that the Whitney would merge with the Met, its collection joining an expanded American wing there. Meanwhile the Met and the Modern would play distinct roles. Officials at both museums were eager to pool their collections, with the Met devoted primarily to the "visual arts of the past," as the agreement read, and the Modern to the "encouragement and study of the visual arts of the present and recent past." Some people thought it was a sensible move, but the deal fell through.
While nothing so drastic is under way today, museums in the United States and abroad are coming up with new ways of doing business together. The Modern has collaborated with the Tate and the Pompidou Center on a traveling Matisse-Picasso exhibition now on view at the Pompidou Center. (It arrives at the Modern in February.) For the first time the three museums set up a joint Web site devoted to the show (www.matissepicasso.com), giving visitors a single source of information with links to the three museums' own Web sites. 
Two years ago the Modern and the Tate tried collaborating on an Internet project, but when the dot-com business began to go sour, so did the project. Now the two institutions have staff exchanges. 
Mr. Lowry said he believed working with like-minded institutions was crucial these days. "Competition is good, rivalry is not," he said. "In an increasingly competitive environment museums are trying to capture everyone's leisure time, so we need to find a way to work together, or we'll get subsumed by the entertainment industry."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 19, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in The Arts on Thursday about cooperation by museums in the United States, Britain and France misstated the site of a Matisse-Picasso exhibition now on view. It is at the Grand Palais in Paris. (The Pompidou Center was an organizer of the show.)



GRAPHIC: Photos: Frame from Bill Viola's installation "Five Angels," purchased by the Pompidou Center, the Whitney and the Tate Modern. (Bill Viola/Courtesy Anthony d'Offay Gallery)(pg. E1); Still from a Matthew Barney film acquired jointly by two museums. (Barbara Gladstone Gallery)(pg. E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); FILM (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (62%); CD & DVD DRIVES (55%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%) MUSEUMS; LABOR; RECORDINGS (VIDEO); ART 

PERSON: LEONARD LAUDER (51%) VOGEL, CAROL 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%) MINNESOTA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (70%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



481 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: New Moves for Nervous Merchants 

BYLINE:  By MARIANNE ROHRLICH 

 BODY:
EVERY year Jonah Zuckerman, a furniture maker in the Dumbo section of Brooklyn, participates in the Art Under the Bridge festival, a weekend when artists and craftspeople open their studios to the public. His goal in the past was to spur interest in future commissions. But when the festival kicks off tomorrow, he will have a different agenda: to sell all the showroom samples at his company, City Joinery. "I'm anticipating being slow for a while," he said of his first-time effort to sweep out everything. He said he hopes to generate cash so that he can "make a lot of new things" while he waits for business to pick up again.
 An uncertain economy, coupled with fears it may get worse, is driving store owners in New York to think creatively. Some are participating in group events. Others are offering preseason sales. 
 One of the hardest-hit neighborhoods is SoHo, according to Faith Hope Consolo, vice chairwoman of Garrick-Aug Worldwide Realty, which specializes in retail rentals. "The rents had become absurd," she said. "At $400 or $500 a square foot, retailers are trying to pull out.
"Not only do you see vacancies," she added, "but you see availability signs on stores whose owners are even willing to subsidize a new tenant just to get out."
Based on recent retail lease signings, Ms. Consolo said, shoppers, whether city dwellers or tourists, are staying uptown.
In SoHo, some store owners say their sales are down to frightening lows. "The last two weekends were terrible," said P. J. Casey, the owner of C.I.T.E, a store on Wooster Street that carries vintage midcentury furnishings as well as new items.
After Sept. 11, 2001, sales at her store through the end of that year dropped 43 percent below those for the same period in 2000. This year, sales are down another 20 percent, Ms. Casey said. 
The manager of a neighboring shop, who did not want to be named because she was not authorized to speak for the owner, said sales last month were 25 percent below the same period last year. 
Store owners on Wooster Street have scheduled a block party on Oct. 26 and 27, to take place between Houston and Spring Streets. The event was designed to entice people to shop, and will include come-ons like pottery demonstrations and sidewalk sales. Drinks will be given away, and special prices will be offered on high-end furniture.
Ms. Casey said other attempts this year by civic groups and large-scale businesses in SoHo had failed to lure crowds. This summer, sales were dismal: an apparel and travel gear store she manages for a large European company had projected 2002 sales at $4.7 million, but now thinks it unlikely that they will climb above $1.8 million.
At C.I.T.E., Ms. Casey plans to offer customers 50 percent off on some floor samples and a sidewalk sale. She has hired children's face painters and a tarot card reader.
Cappellini Modern Age will knock 20 percent off the price of furniture ordered that weekend. At Simon Pearce, another store on the block, there will be pottery demonstrations and reduced prices on selected merchandise. The prices on expensive wool rugs at Entree Libre will be lowered 20 percent or more, and Ligne Roset will raffle a chair.
In the meatpacking district, efforts to stimulate foot traffic date to June, when Renata Bokalo, an owner of a home-accessories and fashion boutique called Auto, organized neighborhood-wide late-night shopping events on the first Thursday of every month. Her name for the evenings was Shop Lift -- "literally to lift sales," she said. She added, "People are out now, but sales are not where they were a year ago. It's pretty dead." She hopes not to have to lower prices during the holidays.
The efforts are not restricted to small stores. Bloomingdale's, for one, has stepped up the number of fall promotional events by 20 percent over last year, including cooking demonstrations, book signings and appearances by celebrities like Pierce Brosnan. "We're trying to have as much going on in the store as possible," said Anne Keating, a vice president for public relations. 
In Brooklyn this weekend, on a 10-block stretch of Atlantic Avenue from Hicks Street to Fourth Avenue, an event called Walk the Windows will offer shoppers a smorgasbord: a sample sale of modern home textiles at Bark, free interior design consultations at Foundation, free appraisals at the Antique Room, a Tibetan rug-weaving demonstration at Kea Carpets, and at Town & Country Antiques, discounts on selected items. The windows of many shops will be dressed by artists who are also hoping to drum up business. 
Organized by a nonprofit group, the Atlantic Avenue Local Development Corporation, Walk the Windows will begin with a cocktail party at Axelle Fine Arts tomorrow night to raise money for the creation of a master plan for Atlantic Avenue (tickets from $75; 718-875-8993). The event will continue Saturday and Sunday from noon to 7 p.m. 
The festival in Dumbo runs tomorrow through Sunday. The opening night party, $10, is tomorrow from 10 p.m. to 4 a.m. at 56 Adams Street (eighth floor). Among the participating stores and studios are 20th Century Modern and Industrial Furniture, RR Frames, ABC Carpet & Home, Cronverk Furniture Land and Excalibur Bronze Sculpture Foundry. More information is available on the Web at www.dumboartscenter.org or by calling (718) 694-0831.

GRAPHIC: Photos: DECISIONS, DECISIONS -- Cappellini Modern Age, left, and Town & Country Antiques, above, plan sales. (Photographs by Barbara Alper for The New York Times); WOOD WORKS -- In Dumbo, Jonah Zuckerman, above, has priced his floor samples to sell. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); SALES FIGURES (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); RETAIL SALES (88%); FURNITURE MFG (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); CITIES (71%); SALES PROJECTIONS (64%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES 

PERSON: ROHRLICH, MARIANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; SOHO AREA (SOUTH HOUSTON INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT) (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



482 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Disagree Sharply On Gloomy Ledger in Albany 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
Spending by New York State is up sharply this year, receipts are down just as steeply, and the state's balance sheet looks even worse over all than the gloomy predictions made earlier this year.
 While no one disputed the numbers, in the overheated air of a campaign for governor, there was sharp disagreement over whether it came as a surprise. 
 H. Carl McCall and Tom Golisano, the candidates running against Gov. George E. Pataki, have said for months that the budget was out of balance and poised to fall apart after the November election. They have cited predictions of a state deficit of $5 billion to $10 billion next year, which the Pataki camp insists are too high. 
Excluding federal grants for programs like Medicaid and welfare, state income in the first six months of the fiscal year, a period ended Sept. 30, fell 8.2 percent, a drop of $2.4 billion, from the same period a year earlier. At the same time, state spending outside federal grants rose 8.8 percent. The figures were included in an annual report by Mr. McCall, the state comptroller.
In a statement, Mr. McCall, a Democrat, said the governor, a Republican, built the budget "on a foundation of shaky revenues and backdoor deals," and he questioned whether the state had enough money to finish the fiscal year.
The governor's office projected earlier this year that general fund revenue would drop 5 percent this fiscal year. In the first six months, the actual decline was 16 percent. Personal income tax collections, the state's biggest source of income, were predicted to decline 10 percent; so far, they are down 23 percent, almost $4 billion.
But the administration insisted that things were going about as expected to this point. "While we face serious challenges as a result of 9/11 and the national economic downturn, we're confident we can manage them," said Carole E. Stone, the governor's budget director.
Administration officials also argue that the timing of tax payments can skew the numbers, and that first-half figures mean less than those from later in the year, when a disproportionate share of taxes is paid.
Mr. McCall's report predicted that the state and local governments would have to pay an added $847 million into the pension fund next year because of stock market losses in the fund, which he manages. During the market boom, governments did not have to pay into the fund at all. This fiscal year, they are paying $138 million. Next year, the comptroller estimated, they will have to pay $985 million.
A spokesman for the governor blamed the change on mismanagement by Mr. McCall. Independent monitors say the state's pension fund is among the best managed in the country. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); MEDICAID (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INCOME TAX (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER); GOLISANO, TOM; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



483 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE ART; 
For a Two-Digit Price, A Two-Button Palm

BYLINE:  By David Pogue; E-mail: Pogue@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AT this point in the information age, it has become clear that the high-tech industry operates according to certain unwritten laws. For example, there is Sony's Law: Smaller always costs more. There is Symantec's Law: Good tech support is hard to find. And above all, there's Microsoft's Law: Each version of a product must offer a longer feature list than its predecessor, even if the overall result isn't an improvement. 
 This month Palm broke that last law with the release of its latest palmtop, bizarrely called the Zire (pronounced "like the second part of desire," a canny public relations person points out). This device embodies a notion that dare not speak its name in Silicon Valley -- that maybe, just maybe, more features every year is not what people want. Perhaps a certain percentage of the populace, even a big percentage, is overwhelmed by the featuritis that makes their electronics purchases ever more complex and ever more susceptible to failure. 
 Put simply, the Zire is a pocket organizer that does less -- a lot less. It's the most stripped-down palmtop you can buy, unencumbered by a color screen, a synchronization cradle, a voice recorder, expansion slots, jog dial, MP3 music player and so on. Its screen doesn't even offer a backlight, a standard feature on every Palm model except the original 1996 Pilot. In dim or dark lighting, the Zire is about as useful as a windshield scraper.
 Palm claims that it eliminated so many standard features of the modern palmtop in the name of simplification, as a gift to technophobes who still haul around a paper Filofax. But surely it's no coincidence that in addition to being the simplest organizer in years, the Zire makes its debut with the lowest price in Palm history: $99. 
 That, according to Palm's research, is a magic number. It puts the Zire into a category no name-brand organizer has ever occupied: the impulse buy, no longer a check-with-your-spouse-first purchase. (Furthermore, Palm prices traditionally drop by about 50 percent over their two-year life spans.) Fittingly, the Zire is packaged in blister pack wrapping, like D batteries or squirt guns, to be hung from rods at Kmart, Target and other fine purveyors of inexpensive stuff. 
 Palm's research also indicates that what most people do with their Palms, most of the time, is check their calendars and phone books. So the Zire has only two push buttons on the front, corresponding to the Date Book and Address Book programs, rather than the usual four. (The To Do List and Note Pad programs are still on board, along with Expense, Calculator, games and the other usual Palm programs. But it takes a few taps on the grayscale touch screen to get to them.)
 The Zire doesn't even have the bottom-edge jack (the Universal Connector) that a few years ago Palm promised to install on every new Palm model. The idea was to ensure consistent compatibility with snap-on modems, portable keyboards, G.P.S. trackers and other add-ons, which previously had to be reworked each time Palm changed the design of that connector. No Zire owner will ever open up the folding Palm Portable Keyboard, to the amazement of onlookers, with a rakish James Bond smile.
 Palm argues that the kind of person who would buy a $99 palmtop would not be likely to spend another $80 on a folding keyboard for it, but that doesn't necessarily follow. Plenty of people buy $4,000 color laser printers to go with their $1,500 PC's, or $10,000 speaker systems for their $5,000 stereos. In any case, Palm probably wishes it had chosen a name other than Universal Connector for this no-longer-universal connector.
 The Zire still keeps itself up to date with your agenda and social circle by synching itself with a Macintosh or Windows computer; that, after all, is the very heart of the Palm concept. But instead of the cradle that usually holds the Palm and recharges its built-in batteries, the Zire comes with a simple U.S.B. cable. The good news: a cable is much simpler to pack and carry than a cradle. The bad news: the Zire comes with a separate power adapter for recharging, which makes for a messy three-piece suite to carry around. The good news: you might not need that power adapter. The U.S.B. cable can also recharge the Zire, albeit slowly, by drawing a "trickle charge" of power from a laptop or other computer. 
 Now, a true child of the information age might well object to all this: "Stripped-down and cheap? If I really wanted a cheap Palm with only two megabytes of memory, a 16-megahertz processor and no expansion capability, I'd pop on over to eBay and buy an old Palm III for $45." 
 The truth is, though, that the Zire isn't quite as bad as all that. For starters, it doesn't look cheap at all. In fact, its smooth, shiny, snow-white face connotes the same elegance as the shiny white Apple iPod. ("White is the new black," a Palm representative says.)
 Its software is modern, too. It runs Palm OS 4.1, which has come a long way since the Palm III days. For example, you can designate certain addresses, memos and other information morsels as "protected." They appear masked by a gray bar until you enter the password, which is good to know if you're the kind of person who occasionally leaves doodads unattended on the desk.
 Remember, too, that the Zire offers such modern luxuries as a U.S.B. connection to your computer -- far faster than the serial connectors of the Palm III days -- and built-in rechargeable batteries, saving you the monthly expense of new AA batteries. 
 Yes, you read that correctly: monthly. With only a grayscale screen and very few bells and whistles to operate, the Zire cruises for three or four weeks between charges. It's enough to send cellphones and color-screen palmtops into therapy.
 Finally, the Zire is much smaller and lighter than the gray, boxy models of old. In fact, at 3.8 ounces, it's the lightest Palm-based organizer ever made -- even lighter, if you think of it, than a McDonald's Quarter Pounder before cooking. At 4.4 by 2.9 by 0.6 inches, it's about the same size as the Palm V or Palm m515, which is to say, svelte indeed. 
 It's probably in my contract somewhere that as a professional gadget freak, it's my duty to sniff at this exercise in minimalism. Of course the Zire is small and light -- there's practically nothing inside it. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to see that from a pure price perspective, Palm's own m105 model, now in its final days of availability, is a better deal: For the same $99, it offers four times the memory and a backlight. And how dare a product in 2002, or its owner, show up in polite company these days without a color screen?
 But as a human being who thinks that life's too short for pointless complexity, I'm not sure Palm isn't on to something here. I know a lot of people with Palms, and most never do much besides check calendars and phone numbers, play games and beam favorite programs to fellow Palm owners by infrared. 
 The small, light, power-stingy, good-looking Zire is excellent for those tasks and those people, at less than a third of the price of a Palm m515 or color Sony Clie. If this approach catches on -- and in this economy, it just might -- Palm may well turn out to have written a new high-tech law of its own.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 18, 2002

 CORRECTION:
The State of the Art column in Circuits yesterday, about the Palm Zire hand-held computer, described the screen display incorrectly. It is monochrome; some other Palm models have gray scale screens, providing multiple shades of gray. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: STRIPPED DOWN -- Creators of the Zire, which lacks even a screen backlight, say it is their gift to technophobes. (pg. G7) Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg)(pg. G1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); FLIGHT RECORDERS (74%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (74%); INTERNET AUDIO (65%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (56%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: PALM INC (92%); SYMANTEC CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: PALM INC 

TICKER: SYMC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: POGUE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



484 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE MONEY TRAIL; 
Report Says Saudis Fail to Crack Down on Charities That Finance Terrorists

BYLINE:  By JEFF GERTH and JUDITH MILLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
Al Qaeda's terror network derives most of its financing from charities and individuals in Saudi Arabia, but the kingdom has "turned a blind eye to this problem," according to a new report by experts on terrorist finances.
 The report faults the United States for failing to confront the Saudis, saying American government officials have asserted that Saudi Arabia is cooperating on stopping terrorist financing "when they know very well all the ways in which it is not." 
 The report released today was prepared by a committee sponsored by the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. Although examples of the misuse of Saudi donations by terrorists have been previously reported, the council's study goes further by concluding for the first time that Saudi Arabia is the single largest source of terrorist financing. 
Moreover, the study's authors warn that the relationship between the United States and Saudi Arabia needs to be changed after the attacks of Sept. 11 last year. Previous criticism of Saudi ties to Al Qaeda stemmed largely from the fact that 15 of the 19 hijackers came from the kingdom.
"There's always been a tendency to treat the kingdom with kid gloves because of its economic and strategic importance," said one member of the panel, Stuart E. Eizenstat, a former deputy treasury secretary. 
But he said the report aimed to emphasize that "you have to make a fundamental judgment that dealing with terrorist financing is important enough to break with the mold in our relationship."
In one of its starkest conclusions, the report said, "It is worth stating clearly and unambiguously, if only because official U.S. government spokespersons have not: for years, individuals and charities based in Saudi Arabia have been the most important source of funds for Al Qaeda, and for years Saudi officials have turned a blind eye to this problem."
Rob Nichols, a spokesman for the Treasury Department, said the report was helpful but flawed because it focused too much on the Clinton administration's efforts and did not reflect the "exponential increase in people, agencies and money dedicated to terrorist financing" by the Bush administration.
Mr. Nichols said the administration was "pleased with the cooperation with the Saudis," including their efforts to regulate charities and the designation of two Saudis as supporters of terrorists.
Saudi officials declined to comment on the report's findings. Last month, Saudi Arabia released a list of actions they said had been taken to combat misuse by terrorists of charitable donations and legitimate transactions. 
Those included establishing financial control mechanisms meant to "ensure that terrorist organizations cannot take advantage of these charitable groups in the future."
While praising the Bush administration for blocking assets of some charitable organizations since the Sept. 11 attacks, the report from the Council on Foreign Relations concluded that there was much work to be done in shutting down the financing of terror groups.
The report contains dozens of organizational and policy recommendations for the United States and other countries. 
The first strategic recommendation calls on the United States to "speak out bluntly, forcefully and openly" about failures by foreign countries to combat terrorism. Past lack of candor, the report said, is a crucial part of the problem.
The chairman of the nonpartisan committee is Maurice R. Greenberg, chairman and chief executive of the American International Group, a leading financial conglomerate. 
Other members include former and current government officials like William H. Webster, former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency; David Cohen, deputy commissioner for intelligence of the New York City Police Department; and William F. Wechsler, former director for transnational threats at the National Security Council.
The report said tracing terrorist financing was complicated by a basic tenet of Islam known as zakat, which requires every Muslim to give a small percentage of his wealth each year to charitable causes like hospitals, mosques and schools. Because it is the world's richest Muslim nation, Saudi Arabia is the largest backer of Islamic charities.
But the report maintains that the "widely unregulated, seldom audited and generally undocumented practices have allowed unscrupulous actors such as Al Qaeda to access huge sums of money over the years."
In 1999 and 2000, officials of the Clinton administration, including some who worked on the council's report, went to Saudi Arabia to raise the subject of charitable donations. But the issue never became a priority at the top levels of government, according to Mr. Eizenstat and other former officials.
In 1999, Saudi Arabia tightened its money laundering laws to bring it into compliance with international standards, but according to the report, the changes "have not been implemented." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (98%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); AL-QAEDA (90%); HIJACKING (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHARITIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (79%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (79%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); CHARITIES LAW (73%); CHARITABLE GIVING (73%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); SAUDI ARABIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ASSETS, FROZEN; PHILANTHROPY 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%) ;COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS 

PERSON: GERTH, JEFF; MILLER, JUDITH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); SAUDI ARABIA

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



485 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Relying on Business Clients, AMR Posts a Loss 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

 BODY:
The AMR Corporation, the parent of American Airlines, reported a third-quarter loss yesterday that was more than double its loss in the period a year ago. The company's dire financial numbers are expected to be among the worst for the airline industry this week, as the biggest carriers report earnings.
 AMR said it would defer deliveries of aircraft from Boeing, temporarily park some planes and continue working to cut costs in an effort to compete with low-cost carriers -- efforts that appeared naive to some analysts yesterday. 
 The company reported a net loss of $924 million, or $5.93 a share, significantly more than the $414 million loss, or $2.68 a share, in the third quarter last year. Excluding special gains and losses, which included downgrading the value of aircraft, AMR had a loss of $475 million, or $3.05 a share. The amount was virtually the same as analysts' consensus estimate of a $3.06 a share, as reported by Thomson First Call.
AMR had revenue of $4.49 billion in the quarter, down almost 7 percent from the same time a year ago.
Shares of AMR fell 59 cents, to $3.89.
"Despite our progress so far, we need to do more to reach an operating cost structure that will allow us to survive in this very challenging environment," Jeffrey C. Campbell, the chief financial officer, said yesterday in a call with analysts.
Mr. Campbell attributed much of the revenue decrease to American's reliance on business travelers, especially ones in the high-technology and telecommunications industries. American also has many routes to Latin America, and the economic instability in those countries has lowered revenue.
"Unfortunately," he said, "we see this trend continuing and expanding beyond Argentina and Brazil."
AMR said it would defer delivery of 34 Boeing planes from 2003 through 2005. It plans to park 42 aircraft, which it said could save $100 million in maintenance costs over two years.
Mr. Campbell stressed that American is working hard to find ways to cut costs, ranging from tinkering with its hub schedules to more efficiently using voice recognition software for customer service. He estimated that AMR could save $1.4 billion in 2003 and $1.7 billion in 2004 with these cost cuts.
But some analysts sounded skeptical.
"We haven't seen a high-cost carrier move yet to lower costs substantially without revenues also moving in that direction," said Brian D. Harris, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney.
Jamie N. Baker, an analyst at J. P. Morgan, asked Mr. Campbell: "What you're doing right now just doesn't seem to be working. When does AMR try something truly radical, something other than layoffs and aircraft deferrals?"
Mr. Campbell responded that some of AMR's cost-cutting efforts were innovative.
AMR announced in mid-August that it would layoff 7,000 workers this fall and reduce the number of planes flying. The capacity in the fourth quarter will be 6 percent greater than in the period last year, when American and its rivals cut flights after the Sept. 11 attacks, but will be 13 percent below the period in 2000.
"I expect we will report another significant loss for the seasonally weak fourth quarter, one which will exceed our loss in the third quarter," Mr. Campbell said.
He also said AMR was examining its "noncore assets" -- including American Eagle, its regional operation -- to see whether they should be sold. "I don't want to announce on this call that we're selling anything," he said, "but clearly everything is on the table."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (91%); AIRLINES (91%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); VOICE RECOGNITION (64%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%) COMPANY REPORTS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: AMR CORP (96%); BOEING CO (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMR CORP; AMERICAN AIRLINES 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: WONG, EDWARD; CAMPBELL, JEFFREY C 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



486 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Interpublic Group surprises investors with yet another warning of financial setbacks.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
THE Interpublic Group of Companies in New York, which had previously warned of earnings disappointments and accounting irregularities, has surprised Wall Street again with disclosures of additional financial shortfalls and setbacks. The unexpected announcements, made yesterday after the stock market closed, threaten to unleash a firestorm of criticism that is likely to reach the highest levels of the agency company.
 The disclosures included additional charges related to a restatement of earnings for the last five years; the charges will be almost twice what was indicated to investors in an unexpected announcement two months ago. Also, Interpublic significantly reduced estimates of earnings for the third quarter and the full year. 
 "It's a disaster," a senior Interpublic executive said, speaking only on the condition of anonymity. "This thing's broken. They're going to throw people overboard."
Actually, several people have already been thrown overboard. Top managers at two divisions of the McCann-Erickson World Group and at Octagon Motor Sports, a unit of the Interpublic Sports and Entertainment Group, have been dismissed over the last two months. This time, however, lower-level dismissals like those may not be enough to satisfy blindsided shareholders.
In trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange before the announcement, Interpublic shares fell 75 cents, or 4.4 percent, to $16.30. After the announcement, Wall Street rendered its verdict in after-hours trading by sending the shares down another $5.30, or 32.5 percent, to $11.00, below the 52-week low of $12.75.
Interpublic is the world's second largest agency company, owning agencies like Bozell; Foote, Cone & Belding; Lowe & Partners; and McCann-Erickson. Revenue last year was $6.7 billion and the agency company suffered a net loss of $505.3 million, reflecting the advertising recession and internal difficulties. Billings for Interpublic agencies were estimated at $66.7 billion, from blue-chip marketers like Coca-Cola, General Motors and Unilever.
A leading Interpublic rival, the Omnicom Group in New York, has lately reassured Wall Street that its third-quarter earnings projections would be met.
Philippe Krakowsky, a spokesman for Interpublic, said that he could not elaborate beyond what was disclosed in a news release because of federal fair-disclosure regulations. That was also the reason, Mr. Krakowsky said, that he could not provide interviews with John J. Dooner Jr., chairman and chief executive at Interpublic, or Sean F. Orr, chief financial officer.
In a statement that was part of the news release, Mr. Dooner said: "It is regrettable that we have had to revise our earnings forecast, but this new guidance reflects the difficult economic conditions we are facing around the world. We are dealing with our short-term issues in marketing services aggressively and directly."
The release said that a recent review of expenses that had been improperly accounted for at the European operations of McCann-Erickson had found more problems. On Aug. 13, Interpublic said the restatement was to have been $68.5 million; yesterday it amended that to say the amount was "not expected to exceed $120 million."
In revising downward its earnings estimates, Interpublic lowered the forecast for the third quarter to 8 cents to 10 cents a share. By comparison, the consensus estimate of industry analysts had been 28 cents a share.
The forecast for 2002 was lowered to 85 cents to 90 cents a share from a previous corporate estimate of $1.25 to $1.35 a share.
In the third quarter, revenue declined approximately 7 percent, Interpublic said, and revenue for the full year is now expected to fall about 9 percent.
The revisions are just the most recent in a series by Interpublic that has contributed to large recent declines in its share price. The latest problems were attributed to what was called "significant deterioration" of the operations of Octagon Motor Sports, which owns car-racing tracks in Britain and Hong Kong, along with "general revenue pressure" on all of Interpublic, partly because of economic problems in Latin America and Japan.
In the news release, Mr. Orr said that previous estimates that the problems at Octagon Motor Sports would reduce earnings at Interpublic by 4 cents a share for the year had been revised to a reduction of 15 cents to 20 cents a share.
"We are currently reassessing the composition and structure of our motor sports holdings," Mr. Orr said in the release.
Additionally, Interpublic said that certain other marketing-services operations outside the realm of traditional advertising, in fields like corporate identity consulting and retail promotion, had suffered what was described as "significant deceleration" in the third quarter. There will be additional severance expenses related to cutbacks in those areas, the Interpublic statement said.
The trade publications Advertising Age and Adweek reported that those problems were centered on two divisions of the McCann-Erickson World Group: FutureBrand, the corporate identity consultant, and Momentum, a promotion and event-marketing agency. The problems at the units result in part from a shift of marketers' ad budgets to more traditional approaches like television commercials, which caused the units to miss their earnings projections. 
Among its other woes, Interpublic said, clients in Brazil, Japan and Mexico are canceling or postponing their ad campaigns in response to the souring economies in those countries.
Interpublic will announce its results for the third quarter after the stock market closes on Nov. 13.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); SPORTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%); VERDICTS (50%) ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (98%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (69%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); DRAFTFCB INC (54%); TAPSA AGENCIA DE PUBLICIDAD SL (54%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES INC 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (98%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); KO (NYSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (53%); UNIA (AMS) (52%); UNA (BIT) (52%); UNA (AMS) (52%); UN (NYSE) (52%); ULVR (LSE) (52%); UL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (98%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (52%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



487 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Coke's Glum Forecast Sends Stock Down 10% 

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
The Coca-Cola Company said yesterday that its third-quarter earnings increased 8 percent. But its stock fell more than 10 percent, the steepest one-day decline in four years, after Coke said it would not meet earnings projections for the year because of weakness in Latin America and difficult weather conditions in some other foreign markets.
 Analysts said that the company, in lowering its forecast yesterday, showed how closely its sales were tied to the global economy. Coke earns 76 percent of its profit from sales outside the United States. 
 "If you look through what Coke was saying, why they're taking the numbers down, I don't have a problem with it," said Marc Greenberg, a beverage analyst at Deutsche Bank. "They're taking a rational view of global economic weakness."
Earlier this year, Coca-Cola said it was comfortable with analysts' projections for full-year earnings of $1.78 a share. But yesterday, the company said earnings for 2002 might be 1 to 2 cents a share below the Wall Street estimates.
"As we went into the year, I think we very clearly stated our expectations were built off of improving macroeconomics in the second half of the year, and obviously that has not happened," Gary P. Fayard, Coke's chief financial officer, said in a conference call. "In fact, they've gotten much worse."
Mr. Fayard said the financial crises in Argentina, Venezuela and Brazil had weighed on business. He also said flooding in Europe and bad weather in Japan and South Korea had hurt sales.
"There was no summer in Europe," said Mr. Fayard, who maintained that the company would probably "come pretty close to what the full-year estimate was." But he declined to forecast earnings for the fourth quarter or for 2003.
In the third quarter, Coca-Cola's net income rose to $1.16 billion, or 47 cents a share, compared with $1.07 billion in the period a year earlier. The results, which included a deduction of a penny a share because of foreign currency adjustments, met Wall Street's expectations. Revenue increased 13 percent, to $5.32 billion, from $4.69 billion.
Investors focused on Coke's lowered forecast yesterday, and sent the stock down $5.28, to $47.20.
"This market is very funny," said Ann H. Gurkin, a beverage analyst at Davenport & Company. "Any kind of misstep, stocks are just crucified. It doesn't mean that's right. The decline in the stock is overdone in our opinion. A penny or two is not a big deal, given the weak economies around the world." 
Despite investors' severe reaction to Coke's announcement, there were several bright spots in its report. The company reported a 9 percent increase in volume growth in North America. The volume gains were linked to strong sales in soft rinks, buoyed by the introduction of vanilla Coke and diet Coke with lemon, and by sales of bottled water.
Sales were also robust in Asia, where, despite typhoons in Japan, volume increased 9 percent. But in some other international markets, the results were disappointing. In Latin America, volume increased only 1 percent in the quarter as vigorous sales in several smaller countries were offset by the weak economies in Argentina, Brazil and Venezuela. Volume growth was also weak in much of Europe as cool, rainy weather held down summer sales in Germany, Austria and the Czech Republic, the company said. Case volume sales rose 3 percent in Africa despite boycotts of American products by small groups and some individual buyers in Morocco and Egypt.
While analysts said Coke's forecast for the year was disappointing, they did not fault the company's business strategy. The projected earnings misstep was a result of uncontrollable global economic forces, some of the analysts said. 
"It's kind of a pity for them that in a year where their new product innovations have been the best in probably a decade that they're not being able to crow about it because the economies are depressing growth," said Caroline S. Levy of UBS Warburg. "When the backdrop improves, I think this is going to be a formidable company; it's just hard to say when that is."
Coca-Cola Enterprises, Coke's primary bottler, also reported its third-quarter earnings yesterday. The company said its net income rose to $190 million, or 42 cents a share, from $10 million, or 2 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Coca-Cola products occupy shelves next to a rival's in Sao Paulo, Brazil. Weak demand in big South American economies is cutting into sales. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); CURRENCIES (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) COMPANY REPORTS; SOFT DRINKS 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (95%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); DAVENPORT & CO LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: COCA-COLA CO; COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES 

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (95%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (95%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%) SIC2087 OTHER FLAVORING EXTRACTS & SYRUPS; 

PERSON: DAY, SHERRI; FAYARD, GARY P 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%) BRAZIL (93%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



488 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES; 
In Iraqi's Words: White House Seems to Be Caught in 'Hysteria of War'

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the speech yesterday by Iraq's ambassador, Mohammed Aldouri, to the United Nations Security Council, as recorded by The New York Times:
 The sanctions imposed on Iraq have caused a humanitarian catastrophe which is no less than any that have befallen the world in history. They have claimed thousands of children, of women and elderly people. It has been a crime which can be considered a genocide by all standards, and the number of victims goes far beyond the number of victims of the use of weapons of mass destruction in history. 
 Parallel to the imposition of the embargo, Mr. President, since April 1991, the United States of America and Britain have declared two no-fly zones in the south and north of Iraq, in blatant violation of the U.N. Charter and the established rules of international law, in violation also of the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, which have all underlined the importance of respecting the sovereignty of Iraq, its territorial integrity and its political independence. . . . 
The Iraqi side has held four meetings with the secretary general, which led to some progress but did not achieve the objective because of the pressures brought to bear by the United States of America, who prevented the Security Council from participating in the efforts to seek a comprehensive solution which would deal with all aspects of the relations between Iraq and the Security Council, while guaranteeing the implementation of all the requirements of the Council(TM)s resolutions. . . . 
The Iraqi government, on Sept. 16, 2002, agreed to the unconditional return of the inspectors on armaments of the United Nations -- unconditionally -- in order to dissipate any doubts concerning Iraq's continued ownership of weapons of mass destruction, and as a first step toward reaching a solution which would include lifting the overall embargo imposed on Iraq and implementing the other provisions of relevant Security Council resolutions. . . . 
Yet the United States of America tried to hamper such agreements, increasing their threats against Iraq, and came to the Security Council in order to impose and obtain the blank check to carry out their aggression, calling for the imposition of unfair and impossible conditions -- arbitrary conditions -- on Iraq. The least we can say about the conditions they are asking for is that they are an insult to the international community and the United Nations, as well as to international law, and bring us back to the law of the jungle rather than international relations. 
The hysteria of war that seems to have hit the American administration at present is fed by hatred and the attempt to settle old accounts, and to impose their hegemony on the world, politically, militarily and economically. They have nothing to do with implementation of Security Council resolutions. 
The United States of America is the main ally of Israel, which has refused to implement 28 resolutions of the Security Council, and scores of General Assembly resolutions calling for Israel to withdraw from the occupied Arab territories to allow the Palestinian refugees to return to their homes. They have been providing the entity with the state-of-the-art weapons to kill the heroic Palestinian people and to destroy their property. 
This American aggressive hysteria has nothing to do with putting an end to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in the world, for the United States of America is the state which owns the largest arsenal of weapons of mass destruction, and they have a long history which shows they have used these weapons against the people, starting with Hiroshima and Nagasaki and then Vietnam and, finally, shells of depleted uranium against Iraq and against Yugoslavia. . . . 
From this rostrum, we call upon the international community to speak loudly in order to voice their objection to the aggressive purposes of the United States of America against Iraq, and to prevent the United States of America from using the Security Council as a tool to carry out their aggressive policy. 
To meet all these attempts with silence will have its repercussions on international peace and security, for it will be the beginning of the end of the collective security system pursuant to the Charter of the United Nations. . . . 
There will be many victims of this hegemonistic tendency if we do not put an end to it. The urgent task today is that of refusing Washington's attempts to hamper the return of the inspectors after Iraq has indeed adopted all the practical measures and arrangements and paved the way for the return of the inspectors to carry out their work easily. 
Iraq has pledged to cooperate with them in every possible way so as to facilitate their task in ascertaining the fact that there are no weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. So in fact there is absolutely no need for a new resolution to be adopted at the Security Council. 
The attempts of the United States of America to hamper and delay the return of the inspectors, and their attempt to make the Security Council adopt a new resolution establishing conditions which are impossible to respect and establishing a pretext to cover aggression against Iraq, with the purpose of colonizing our country and imposing American domination on our oil as a first step in imposing American colonialism in the region as a whole, controlling its oil and allowing Israel to continue its genocidal war and aggression against the Arab countries. 
Mr. President, The United States of America does not want the inspectors to come back. Because if the inspectors do come back, they will prove the Americans to have been repeating one lie after another, and one allegation after the other, at which point the Security Council will be faced with the necessity of lifting the embargo against Iraq, and respecting national security in Iraq and regional security, and implementing all the other requirements of the Security Council resolutions -- and that is what the United States of America does not want.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mohammed Aldouri, the Iraqi ambassador, addressing the Council yesterday. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (75%); GENOCIDE (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (71%); TERRORISM (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (56%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (83%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: ALDOURI, MOHAMMED (AMB) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (97%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



489 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: THE AD CAMPAIGN; 
A Counterattack, Maybe

BYLINE:  By SHAILA K. DEWAN 

 BODY:
 This is a new 30-second commercial that H. Carl McCall, the Democratic candidate for governor, began broadcasting yesterday in upstate New York.

PRODUCER -- GMMB

ON THE SCREEN -- For the first half of the commercial, a photo of Gov. George E. Pataki -- the first to appear in a McCall spot -- is displayed with newspaper headlines like "Pataki Ads Set Back the Cause of School-Aid Reform" and superimposes quotes like "not true" and "a disservice" that apparently refer to Mr. Pataki's commercials.

Then, the music strikes a distinctly more positive note, and Mr. McCall appears as his proposals are praised in the voiceover.

THE SCRIPT -- "George Pataki's trying to fool us again. Trying to hide his failed record by taking Carl McCall's words and votes out of context . . . misleading voters . . . with attacks the press called 'not true' and 'a disservice.'

"Fact is, McCall's plan increases funding for upstate schools. That's right -- increases funding. McCall will roll back back the property tax increases and get the upstate economy moving again. So don't believe Pataki's false negative ads. Read Carl McCall's plan."

ACCURACY -- It is sometimes hard to understand the argument that the Pataki campaign has taken his words out of context. For example, Mr. McCall distinctly said, on video, that he favors restoring the commuter tax -- a moment that Mr. Pataki has featured in his commercials. Mr. McCall has gone from disavowing that statement entirely to explaining that it was made in the wake of 9/11, and no longer reflects his position. Mr. McCall has also said that upstate schools would have to get used to the idea of getting less money, but now disavows that idea as well.

But in other instances, voters would be able to better evaluate Mr. McCall's actions if they had more context than Mr. Pataki provides. Mr. McCall did vote to raise taxes as a state senator, as Mr. Pataki's advertisements say, but at a time of fiscal crisis when Republicans also approved such measures. As comptroller, Mr. McCall did not cast proxy votes in favor of forcing companies to improve their environmental standards, but neither did the vast majority of large pension funds.

SCORECARD -- Too little, too late. Mr. McCall plays the innocent good guy, trying to make voters indignant over the barrage of attacks from Mr. Pataki that have been on television for weeks. But for months before that, Mr. Pataki mortared in his own good-guy image with commercials featuring the smiling faces of his daughter, Emily Pataki, and Rudolph W. Giuliani.

Mr. McCall has said repeatedly that he will not run negative ads, but here he could not resist slipping in nuggets about the governor's "failed record." By beginning with the line "Pataki's trying to fool us again," the campaign makes the dubious assumption that voters believe the governor has fooled them before. SHAILA K. DEWAN

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); TAX LAW (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (71%); TAX INCREASES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); PROPERTY TAX (66%); APPROVALS (60%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (60%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); POLITICAL ADVERTISING 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) DEWAN, SHAILA K; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



490 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: Profit at Caterpillar Rises 4 Percent in 3rd Quarter 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: PEORIA, Ill., Oct. 16 

 BODY:
Caterpillar reported third-quarter earnings of $213 million today, up nearly 4 percent from the same quarter last year and above analysts' expectations.
 Net earnings increased $8 million compared with 2001. 
At 61 cents a share, profits were 2 cents higher than the period a year ago. Analysts predicted profits of 55 cents a share. 
 The company's chief financial officer, F. Lynn McPheeters, said that engine and heavy equipment sales had remained soft and that the overall economy has been slowed by the prospect of a war with Iraq.
But Mr. McPheeters said Caterpillar had been able to post its first quarterly gain of the year because of the diversity of its products and markets.
The company had a 26 percent earnings decline in the first quarter and a 51 percent drop in the second quarter.
The profit increase stemmed in part from a reduction of Caterpillar's income tax rate, to 28 percent from 30 percent, because of a shift in its mix of domestic and foreign sales.
Sales for the quarter were $5.08 billion, up $19 million from a year earlier. Mr. McPheeters said sales had been strong in Asia and the Pacific, which helped offset declines in North America and Latin America. 
Over all, sales of truck and bus engines were up, along with heavy construction and quarry equipment. Sales of coal mining, general construction and electrical power equipment dipped. 
Caterpillar repeated projections that its year-end earnings would fall about 15 percent below 2001's. Mr. McPheeters said the company expects moderate growth in 2003, though that could be affected if the nation is at war. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); INCOME TAX (73%); MINES & MINING (70%); EXECUTIVES (56%); COAL MINING (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: CATERPILLAR INC 

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (92%); CATR (PAR) (92%); CAT (SWX) (92%); CAT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%) SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY; 

PERSON: MCPHEETERS, F LYNN 

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (59%) ILLINOIS, USA (74%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (74%); LATIN AMERICA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



491 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-14

North Korea Admits Nuclear Program
North Korea has admitted conducting a major clandestine nuclear weapons program for the past several years, the Bush administration said. North Korea has informed officials it is terminating a 1994 agreement to freeze all of its nuclear activity. The United States now has two crises involving development of nuclear weapons. A1

Indonesia Moves on Terror
Under pressure from the United States to act against terrorism, Indonesia took a step toward declaring a fundamentalist Islamic group, Jemaah Islamiyah, a terrorist organization. For nearly a year, Indonesia has dismissed claims that the organization was a threat, or even that it existed. A1

German Assailed on Economy
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany put forth what critics called a timid agenda for the next four years in a coalition agreement his party signed with its partner, the Green Party. A9

U.S. Woos France on Iraq
The Bush administration is mounting a campaign to persuade France and other skeptical members of the United Nations Security Council to go along with a single resolution threatening military force against Iraq. A19

Parcel Bombs in Pakistan
Eight people in the Pakistani city of Karachi were wounded by six parcel bombs sent to the offices of the top law enforcement official and five senior police officials and investigators. A20

Indian Troops to Pull Back
The Indian government said it would pull back troops from its border with Pakistan in its most substantial step to reduce a military buildup that helped bring the two nations to the brink of war. The pullback will not affect the Line of Control in the disputed region of Kashmir. A5

NATIONAL A22-30

Congress Passes Overhaul Of U.S. Ballot Procedures
Congress gave final approval to a bill to clean up the nation's election procedures, nearly two years after a breakdown in Florida balloting muddled the results of the 2000 presidential election. A1

Witnesses Disagree on Sniper
Police announced they had no sketch to offer the public in their hunt for the suburban sniper because witnesses who saw him kill his latest victim could not agree on details of the shooting scene. A1

The Montgomery County Police Department, the lead agency investigating the sniper case, released a tip sheet titled "How to Be a Good Witness" to help witnesses of violent and chaotic situations. A26

Flight Time Without Flying
Secretary James G. Roche of the Air Force ordered a change in regulations that allows every hour spent by pilots guiding an unmanned vehicle to count as flight time when calculating pay raises and promotions. A22

Court Reviews Jury Selection
The Supreme Court heard arguments that question a 1986 ruling that specified procedures for detecting the unconstitutional practice of picking or excluding jurors on the basis of their race. A25

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Lumpectomy vs. Mastectomy
After monitoring more than 2,500 breast cancer patients for 20 years, researchers have concluded that women do just as well if they have an operation that removes the cancerous lump rather than having their entire breast removed. A1

Smallpox Vaccinations Urged
A panel of specialists advising the government on smallpox vaccinations recommended offering the immunization to an estimated half million emergency room and other hospital workers to prepare in case a bioterrorist attack occurs. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Pataki Perfects the Art Of Not Saying Much
Behind his country-boy charm, Gov. George E. Pataki is a disciplined campaigner who has perfected the art of saying as little as possible. That tendency has been more pronounced than ever as the race for governor enters its final stretch. A1

Long Road to Arrests in Slaying
The arrests of eight people in the kidnapping and killing of a 13 year-old girl came after five years of dead-end investigations. B1

Police Focus on Burglaries
Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly announced that he would focus on cutting the numbers of burglaries in the city, in part by compiling a list of serial burglars and making teams of detectives available to help investigators in certain cases. B3

Louima's Lawyers Squabble
A battle over legal fees is being waged in Brooklyn federal court between the two lawyers who first represented Abner Louima in his civil suit over his 1997 torture by a Brooklyn police officer, and the "dream team" of lawyers assembled for the case by Johnnie L. Cochran Jr. B3

CIRCUITS G1-8

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

ARTS E1-12

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES A31

Dr. Ronald A. Malt
A Boston surgeon who made medical history 40 years ago when he oversaw the first successful reattachment of a human limb, he was 70. A31

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

The Struggle for Online Privacy
Businesses, responding to lawmakers and consumers, say they are giving customers more control over the ways their personal information is used and sold, but many customers have been frustrated in their attempts to exercise that control. C1

Microsoft's New Pricing Plan
To simplify its pricing system, Microsoft moved corporate and government customers to a subscription model of paying yearly fees for updated software. The plan prompted a chorus of complaints but looks like a shrewd financial move. C1

Solid Quarter at I.B.M.
I.B.M. reported earnings and revenues that slightly surpassed expectations. The results signal that the company's emphasis on services and software is helping it withstand the slump in technology spending better than most rivals. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A32-33

Editorials: Insuring against terrorists; former felons have the right to vote; a way to trace bullets; an insufferable risk.

Column: William Safire.

Crossword E10
TV Listings E11
Public Lives B2
Weather B9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); AIR FORCES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); APPEALS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); BALLOTS (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); RACIAL PROFILING (70%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (70%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (68%); BREAST CANCER (66%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); JURY TRIALS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (60%); JURY DUTY (60%); RELIGION (55%); CANCER (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: JEMAAH ISLAMIYA (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%) KASHMIR (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (58%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); GERMANY (92%); IRAQ (92%); FRANCE (90%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



492 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Music sales slump,concert ticket costs jump and rock fans pay the price.

BYLINE:  By Alan B. Krueger; Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University and editor of The Journal of Economic Perspectives. E-mail: akrueger@princeton.edu.

 BODY:
IF you have gone to a rock 'n' roll concert lately, you probably noticed that the price of tickets has been rising faster than the decibel level. Although concert prices have always grown somewhat faster than inflation, from 1996 to 2001 the average price soared 62 percent, while the Consumer Price Index increased just 13 percent and the price of sporting events, movies and theater rose 24 percent.
 The average price to see Billy Joel and Elton John in concert, for example, jumped from $44 when they toured in 1995 to $110 this year. The best seats rose even more: to $175 from $50. 
 The reasons for this extraordinary growth are debatable. 
Many point to Clear Channel Communications, the giant multimedia conglomerate. After the Telecommunications Act of 1996 relaxed constraints on radio station ownership, Clear Channel gobbled up nearly 1,200 stations. It also owns amphitheaters and billboards. Clear Channel entered the concert promotion industry by acquiring SFX Entertainment in 2000, and it now promotes two-thirds of all concerts, by dollar sales.
Critics have accused the company of monopolizing the industry. Representative Howard L. Berman, a California Democrat, has urged the Justice Department to investigate whether "Clear Channel has 'punished' recording artists, including Britney Spears, for their refusal to use its concert promotion service, Clear Channel Entertainment, by 'burying' radio ads for their concerts and by refusing to play their songs on its radio stations."
Although the anecdotal evidence is strong -- and the concert industry certainly appears to be more monopolized lately, with rising prices and declining ticket sales -- it has proved surprisingly difficult to find systematic evidence linking Clear Channel to the exorbitant growth in concert prices. In particular, analyzing data from Pollstar and Arbitron, I find no correlation between Clear Channel's share of radio listeners in a city or state and its share of concerts promoted there, or between its share of radio listeners and the growth of concert prices. Likewise, there is no correlation between the change in the concentration of concert promoters in an area from 1994 to 2001 and the corresponding growth of prices or ticket sales.
Furthermore, ticket prices have also risen sharply in Canada and Europe since the mid-1990's, suggesting that deregulation of radio in the United States is not driving the trend. 
It is certainly possible that Clear Channel uses its muscle to sign up concerts for national or international tours, but one would have expected the regional data to leave some trace of Clear Channel's influence if it was the main force behind accelerating prices. 
Another problem is that Clear Channel is losing money on concerts. The company blames artists for demanding higher fees, which it says cause higher ticket prices. Although paying higher fees may reflect predatory behavior intended to drive out competitors, it is nonetheless surprising that Clear Channel has not managed to profit from concerts in areas where it dominates the radio market.
So what does explain the surge in ticket prices? 
One possibility is that the cost to the consumer has not actually increased because scalped tickets render the list price irrelevant. The rapid growth in list prices, especially for the best seats, could have merely displaced scalpers. That seems unlikely, however, because declining ticket sales suggest that costs are rising. Fewer concerts sell out, and prices have surged even for those that sell fewer than 90 percent of their tickets.
Furthermore, the extent of scalping is often overrated. To check, I conducted a survey of 858 fans when Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band performed at the First Union Center in Philadelphia this month. The concert was a throwback: every ticket in the house sold for $75, well below the market rate. Yet only 27 percent of the tickets were bought through a scalper or ticket broker, or over the Web. The average ticket that was resold went for around $280, yet most fans paid the list price. The list price is indeed relevant.
Mr. Springsteen deliberately set the price at $75 for his entire tour to give value to his fans -- and succeeded. If the market price for a ticket was $280, Mr. Springsteen gave almost $3 million of extra "consumer surplus" to his fans in Philadelphia, double the ticket revenue the concert actually took in.
So why the surge in ticket prices?
I suspect the main reason is that the growing ability of fans to download music free from the Web -- legally or illegally -- has cut into artists' revenues. Millions of people have downloaded music from Napster, Morpheus and KaZaA -- and bought fewer records as a result. Music sales are plummeting, putting downward pressure on artists' royalties. 
In this environment, concerts take on a different meaning for artists and their managers. In pre-Napster days, concert prices were kept below their market rate to help sell albums, a complementary good. Now concert prices are set with an eye toward maximizing concert revenue.
Bands have always had cadres of fans, whose loyalty conferred monopoly power. Yet they were reluctant to exploit this power by charging higher prices because they wanted to sell more albums. When revenue from albums began to dry up, it was natural for bands to raise concert prices. 
There is some empirical support for this hypothesis. Jazz and blues fans are probably less likely to download music from the Web than are fans of rock and pop. Since 1996, prices increased by only 20 percent for jazz and blues concerts, but by 74 percent for rock and pop.
"Music itself is going to become like running water or electricity," the singer David Bowie said recently. "You'd better be prepared for doing a lot of touring because that's really the only unique situation that's going to be left." 
It is not that bands have become greedier; it is that the technology changed to make it less profitable to charge below-market prices for concerts. Not all artists are as generous as Bruce Springsteen -- and even the Boss now charges twice as much as he did in 1996. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bruce Springsteen seems to be keeping his ticket prices below the market rate. (Richard Perry/The New York Times) Graph: "Hot Tickets"From 1996 to 2001, the average cost of a concert ticket went up 62 percent, while the Consumer Price Index increased only 13 percent. Graph tracks change in average ticket price and Consumer Price Index. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); EVENT MARKETING (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MARKET SHARE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); RECORD REVENUES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); FILM (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (74%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (74%); RADIO ADVERTISING (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); THEATER (56%); SPORTS (56%); SPORTS & RECREATION (56%) MUSIC; SALES; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LAW AND LEGISLATION; RADIO; OUTDOOR ADVERTISING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%) CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC; SFX ENTERTAINMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%) SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS; 

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (58%); ELTON JOHN (58%); HOWARD L BERMAN (51%); RICK PERRY (51%); BRITNEY SPEARS (50%) KRUEGER, ALAN B 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%) UNITED STATES

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



493 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Stocks Plunge As Earnings Disappoint

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Stocks plunged yesterday as an onslaught of negative earnings news damped the spirits that had powered a four-session rally that sent the Dow Jones industrials up 13.3 percent.
 The disappointing earnings news came from Intel, J. P. Morgan Chase, Motorola, Coca-Cola, Boeing, American Airlines and Ford. The message from many of these and other companies was not only that the third quarter was weaker than expected but also that the fourth quarter did not look any better. 
 "We have not yet seen the improvements in macroeconomic conditions that we anticipated when we set our earnings objectives at the beginning of 2002," Douglas N. Daft, Coke's chairman and chief executive, said in the company's earnings announcement. And because "economic conditions are not expected to improve in the fourth quarter," he said the company's 2002 earnings were likely to fall pennies short of expectations. 
Donald J. Carty, the chairman and chief executive of AMR, the parent of American Airlines, said the "terrible financial results" were a result of a sluggish economy, the uncertainty of events in the Middle East, higher fuel prices and higher security costs. "We could not overcome the cumulative weight of the economic challenges, and the environment shows little sign of improving," he said in the company's news release.
The Dow Jones industrial average was down 219.65 points, or 2.7 percent, to 8,036.03, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was off 21.25 points, or 2.4 percent, to 860.02. The Nasdaq composite index fell 50.02 points, or 3.9 percent, to 1,232.42.
Yesterday's decline was just the kind of selling that normally follows a big rally in the market. The Dow's 13.3 percent surge was the best four-session gain since a 15.3 percent run that ended April 22, 1933. The S.& P. jumped 13.5 percent over the last four trading sessions while the Nasdaq climbed 15.1 percent.
The market is still down sharply for the year and still below the levels it reached during an August rally that sent the Dow above 9,000 for a day.
Whether the stock rally resumes remains to be seen and will probably depend on the earnings outlook as more and more companies announce their third-quarter results and discuss the future.
Profits for the third quarter are up 6 percent so far compared with results in the period a year earlier, based on reports from 125 companies in the S.& P. 500 and the forecasts for the remaining companies, according to Thomson First Call, which tracks Wall Street earnings forecasts. While that is better than the 1.4 percent earnings growth in the second quarter, it is well below the 16.6 percent forecast at the beginning of the third quarter.
For the fourth quarter, the earnings growth forecast is down to 18.6 percent, from 27.7 percent on July 1.
"Everyone thought we would see some good news on the outlook when companies reported for the third quarter," said Joe Cooper, a research analyst at Thomson First Call. "But we haven't seen that."
The final performance for the third and fourth quarters will depend a lot on how well banks and other financial companies do because they account for about 23 percent of the total profit of the companies in the S.& P. 500.
The third-quarter earnings forecast for financial companies is for 28 percent growth over the third quarter of last year, counting the 37 actual reports and the forecasts for the remaining 44. But that forecast is down from 39 percent on July 1.
Many companies and Wall Street analysts that follow them still refer to operating and pro forma earnings, which allow a company to put a better face on its performance by excluding certain items. Because of this, J. P. Morgan Chase was able to beat the Thomson First Call earnings forecast of 7 cents a share by 9 cents. But on a net income basis, J. P. Morgan's earnings were just 1 cent a share in the third quarter.
So earnings growth for financial companies in the S.& P. 500 stock index may appear stronger than the overall condition of the banks themselves.
For example, Citigroup had third-quarter earnings of 74 cents a share with exclusions but beat expectations by just a penny. Yet its net income rose 23 percent, compared with the quarter a year earlier, while J. P. Morgan's fell 91 percent. Shares of J. P. Morgan fell 32 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $18.29 yesterday, while Citigroup dropped 29 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $33.85. Citigroup rose 12.6 percent Tuesday when it announced its earnings.
Intel was down $2.98, or 18 percent, to $13.54, after reporting on Tuesday evening that its third-quarter earnings missed forecasts by 2 cents a share and warned that the outlook was not getting better. "The economy is not recovering, at least in our industry," said Andy D. Bryant, Intel's chief financial officer. 
After the market closed yesterday, another big technology company, I.B.M., said that its third-quarter net income fell 18 percent. But excluding its disk-drive business, which it is selling to Hitachi, the company's results beat Wall Street expectations. Shares of I.B.M., which fell $3.58, to $64.90, during regular trading jumped more than $5 after hours.
Boeing's stock was down $1.65, or 5.1 percent, to $30.50, after it said it expected profit margins to shrink next year and that sales would come in below forecast.
While Ford beat Wall Street forecasts when excluding the expenses connected to its sale of the Kwik-Fit car repair chain, its net loss for the quarter was 18 cents a share. Shares of Ford fell 61 cents, or 6.9 percent, to $8.26.
General Motors fell $2.56, or 7 percent, to $34.14, after its long-term credit rating was lowered by Standard & Poor's to BBB, from BBB+, because of growing pension liabilities. S.& P. said it might lower Ford's credit rating as well.
Motorola fell $2.25, or 22.3 percent, to $7.85, after it warned that its earnings in the fourth quarter and for the year would fall 60 percent and 11 percent, respectively, below expectations.
Despite the decline in stocks, prices fell in the bond market, driving yields higher. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note was at 4.05 percent, up from 4.01 percent Tuesday and up from 3.57 percent last Wednesday, the day before the four-session rally began. That was the lowest yield on a government security with a 10-year maturity since 1958, according to the Federal Reserve. The price of the 10-year note, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 10/32, to 102 21/32.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of a 4-week bill:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.873
High Rate: 1.630
Coupon Yield: 1.658
Low Rate: 1.600
Median Rate: 1.625
Total applied for: $46,129,656
Accepted: $15,405,921
Noncompetitive: $36,827
The 4-week bills mature Nov. 14.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A decline in the Standard & Poor's 500 index appeared on a monitor in the S.& P. 500 futures pit at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. (Associated Press)(pg. C12); Clerks were busy yesterday at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. (Associated Press)(pg. C1) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C12) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C12) Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields"Average for Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. participation certificates, plotted weekly. Graph tracks 30 and 15-year home loans since July. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.)(pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); BONDS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BOND MARKETS (86%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INTEREST RATES (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); COCA-COLA CO (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); BOEING CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%) FREDDIE MAC 

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); KO (NYSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%) ILLINOIS, USA (74%) MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



494 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: A Tricky Maze for Consumers 

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ 

 BODY:
Businesses, responding to lawmakers and consumers, say they are giving customers more ways than ever to control how their personal information is used and sold. But, in fact, many companies all but frustrate their customers' attempts to exercise that control. 
 Barbara Bechtold of Sacramento recounts the unending process of trying to keep companies from selling her e-mail address and the details of her credit card accounts, insurance policies and mortgage inquiries. 
 When she tried to tell Pacific Bell not to share information that some phone companies sell -- including calling habits -- she found herself confronted with a voice automation system maze.
"Push '1' for this, push '2' for this," she recalled. "Twenty different steps to say, 'I don't want you to sell my information, please.' " 
John Britton, a spokesman for Pacific Bell, a unit of SBC Communications, said the company tried to make the process simple and that it shared information only among affiliated companies and did not sell calling data to other companies.
Still, Ms. Bechtold said that most people, faced with too much twiddling and clicking, "will get disgusted and say, 'Oh, forget it!' rather than try to get off those lists." 
For some companies, that might be the point. Facing new laws in half a dozen states and the threat of legislation in other states and in Congress, businesses have claimed to give customers more control over the use of their personal information. 
But these efforts are subject to abuse. Some online marketers, including some offering low, low mortgage rates, naughty pictures or seminars on dental office management, simply lie. 
"You are receiving this e-mail because you opted-in by requesting information or requested to receive special offers from an online purchase," reads one message offering online marketing services -- spam to help people produce spam.
Did you really ask for the message? Probably not. But many online businesses claim you gave explicit permission to receive them.
Some states are taking on what they considerthe most blatant lies about whether a consumer gives permission to share or sell an e-mail address and other information. New York State has sued an online marketer, MonsterHut, over unsolicited e-mail messages, which MonsterHut insisted were sent with permission. A decision in the case is pending. Among more mainstream businesses, drafters of privacy policies have ways of confusing and frustrating customers.
Consumer privacy advocates have complained about the practices at Yahoo, where members who want to tell the company not to spread around their e-mail addresses and interests or to send them e-mail offers had to click through more than a dozen boxes that were checked to accept the mailings. And even after this time-consuming process, the company "may update this policy," according to the site.
"It's hard to imagine a greater exercise in futility," said Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center in Washington.
The company has said that it values the privacy of its customers and notifies them of any changes in its privacy or marketing policies.
At the Direct Marketing Association site (www.the-dma.org), consumers who want to remove their name from many junk mail lists find that they must sign up by mail, or spend $5 and provide a credit card number to accomplish the same task over the Internet. Putting one's name on a do-not-call list for telemarketers requires a second letter or $5 Internet payment. Louis Mastria, a spokesman for the organization, said the charge was "just to defray costs," not an attempt to deter consumers.
Janice Abrahams, a Web site designer who operates an Internet site (www.privacyparts.com) devoted to online privacy practices, recently gave up after weeks of trying to create a page that would identify online services by their privacy practices. "I feel like I've been nailing Jell-O to a tree -- with my head," she said. 
What is going on at many Web sites is no mystery to Penn Gillette, the magician and former technology columnist for PC Computing Magazine, which is now defunct. The choice offered is no choice at all, he said, when the decision is gently coerced before or after the fact in what is known as a "force" or a "magician's choice." As a rule of thumb, when someone asks you to pick a card, any card, he said, "if the guy is wearing a top hat, he's not giving you a real choice."
The cost of this muddle, surveys show, is trust. A report released yesterday by the Conference Board, a business research organization, showed that just 31 percent of online consumers thought their personal information would be safe -- a slight increase from 27 percent a year ago.
Any company that makes a privacy misstep opens itself to public excoriation. When Yahoo changed its policies earlier this year to make it clear that it could send e-mail and paper mail and even make sales calls to its tens of millions of registered users, it set off a storm of protest. Outbursts have followed similar moves by eBay and AOL Time Warner's America Online.
David Medine, a lawyer in Washington and a former privacy official for the Federal Trade Commission, said that even when given a choice few consumers went to the trouble to shift their privacy options one way or another. "Where you set the default is where 95 percent of people will end up," he said. But that does not mean they are happy with the result, he added, or that their trust in the online world is not damaged.
The challenge, privacy experts say, is to find ways to give people choices that are meaningful and easy to exercise. L. Richard Fischer, a Washington lawyer who deals with privacy issues, cited an Indiana initiative as an example. Last year that state created a single system for citizens to place themselves on a do- not-call list for telemarketers by calling a toll-free number or filling out an online form. Even though the system requires the customer to ask not to be called, the state received blocking requests from 784,000 household phone lines out of 2 million in the state; by this summer 1.2 million lines were on the list. New York State offers a similar service through a site (www.nynocall.com) on the Web.
Lawmakers and regulators are beginning to turn up the pressure.
Many of the new state and federal proposals draw a line: the more personal data -- like that on health or finances, or Ms. Bechtold's phone use -- requires explicit permission of the customer to be sold to outside companies. Other information, often including e-mail addresses, is protected by a less stringent standard that puts the burden on consumers to take action.
The Federal Communications Commission now requires phone companies to get permission from customers before selling "sensitive personal information," including data on who customers call, when they make calls and how long they talk.
In Congress, a bill sponsored by Senator Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, would require any Internet service provider to get explicit permission from customers before sharing or selling sensitive data. "There's a lot of money involved when you go after private information and turn it into a business," Senator Hollings said.
A spokesman for Mr. Hollings said that the bill, which was passed by the Senate Commerce Committee, would probably not move forward in the press of unfinished business at the end of the current Congressional session, but said that the senator expected to bring up the bill next year.
Minnesota has passed a similar law requiring customer approval before Internet service providers can sell personal data. Laws that exceed federal standards by requiring customer permission before financial institutions can share data have been passed by Alaska, Connecticut, Illinois, North Dakota and Vermont.
But there is counterpressure as well. Representative Cliff Stearns, Republican of Florida, has introduced a bill that would pre-empt state laws and set a lower national standard for online privacy protection than would the Hollings bill.
And in the area most consumers would identify as the most critical -- medical and health insurance information -- the Bush administration recently rolled back a Clinton administration proposal requiring patient permission for sharing medical data among doctors, hospitals and other health care providers.
Ultimately, Mr. Rotenberg of the Electronic Privacy Information Center said, companies will learn that meaningful consumer consent is good for business. It is, he added, "not only the right thing to do, but the profitable thing to do."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); EMAIL MARKETING (89%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); INSURANCE POLICIES (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); LITIGATION (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); CREDIT CARDS (56%); OFFICE MANAGEMENT (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CONSUMER PROTECTION; STATES (US); ELECTRONIC MAIL; SUITS AND LITIGATION; PRIVACY 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: MONSTERHUT.COM; YAHOO INC 

TICKER: T (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (94%)

PERSON: SCHWARTZ, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



495 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: CUNY Getting Money to Nurture High-Tech Firms 

BYLINE:  By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
The State Assembly will give the City University of New York $7.5 million to create a network of incubators for small, high-technology businesses, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver said yesterday. 
 The incubators will provide low-cost space as well as administrative, legal, financial and managerial help. Companies will pay little or no rent, and CUNY will receive stock in some of them. 
 CUNY faculty members and students will also work with the companies. 
The first incubator will open at La Guardia Community College in Long Island City late this year or early next year. Three others will follow, at Hostos Community College in the Bronx and at the Borough of Manhattan Community College campus in Lower Manhattan and a satellite site in Harlem.
Mr. Silver said he expected the incubators to house more than 200 businesses and create more than 5,000 jobs in low-income communities in the next five years.
Matthew Goldstein, CUNY's chancellor, said that the first incubators would require $15 million in capital, and that he hoped to receive another $7.5 million from Gov. George E. Pataki and the State Senate.
Mr. Goldstein said he hoped to start incubators on other campuses, including City College (photonics), Hunter College (biotechnology), the College of Staten Island (polymer sciences) and the New York City College of Technology (information services and communications). 
Three years ago, the State Legislature asked CUNY to consider using space on or near its campuses to nurture start-up businesses. Working with the New York City Partnership, CUNY produced a feasibility study proposing a network of incubators. 
The partnership's investment fund has agreed to provide seed capital and loans to the incubators and their companies, said Louise Mirrer, CUNY's executive vice chancellor and president of the CUNY Economic Development Corporation. The corporation, which was established seven months ago with a $400,000 grant from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, will oversee the incubators.
The Hostos incubator will focus on health care. Borough of Manhattan Community College will rebuild an incubator it had started that was destroyed in the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. Its Harlem incubator will focus on high-tech entertainment businesses like video games and interactive sports. 
La Guardia's incubator, known as East River Studios, will receive $5 million of the Assembly's $7.5 million investment and will focus on design, capitalizing on the growing presence of artists and designers in Queens. 
"We hope to break down barriers between the college and the community," said Gail O. Mellow, La Guardia's president. She said the college would select companies for East River Studios on the basis of aesthetic judgments and business potential.
She said that incubator businesses had a much higher survival rate than other start-up companies. 
One of the first occupants will be Krypton Neon, a 22-year-old Long Island City design company that recently built two neon dragons, measuring about 20 feet by 20 feet, for the new Broadway production of "Flower Drum Song." The company has about $200,000 in annual revenue and one full-time employee and one part-time worker, and hopes to expand eventually to six employees. 
"I'm bursting at the seams," Kenny Greenberg, the company's owner, said yesterday.
"The incubator will not only allow me the space and resources to do my large products," he added, "but also space, resources and time for new projects." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); STARTUPS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); SCIENCE FUNDING (70%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); TERRORISM (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SMALL BUSINESS 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W; SILVER, SHELDON (SPEAKER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



496 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Congress Delays Budget Until After Election 

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
Confronted with a budget impasse and an approaching election, Congress agreed tonight to finance government agencies until late November and put off much of an unfinished legislative agenda to a post-election lame-duck session.
 The Republican-led House, defying Democratic critics, voted 228 to 172 to keep federal agencies running at current spending levels until Nov. 22, and the Democratic-led Senate quickly followed suit. 
 Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader, told lawmakers that the House was recessing and would return on Nov. 12 to try to break the legislative logjam. Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the majority leader, suggested, on the other hand, that the Senate could remain in session into next week. 
"There is still a lot that can be done and we are going to press forward," Mr. Daschle said, noting that he would push for votes on an extension of unemployment benefits and an increase in the minimum wage. 
Mr. Armey cautioned House members that they could be called back with 48 hours' notice if the Senate was able to make progress on such issues as the creation of a Homeland Security Department.
"The House still waits on many important pieces of legislation," he said.
There was other pre-election finger-pointing as House Democrats accused Republicans of walking away from domestic spending and policy bills after devoting much of the past weeks to the debate over Iraq.
"This Congress has lost all claim to respectability," said Representative David R. Obey of Wisconsin, the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee. "It has lost all claim to go to the public and ask for another two-year contract."
Republicans blamed Senate Democrats for inaction on many of the measures and said the House had fulfilled its obligations by passing its own initiatives on such subjects as health care and protecting workers' pensions. 
"The House has acted," said Representative Nancy L. Johnson, Republican of Connecticut.
Republican House leaders emphasized that they were willing to return should the Senate pass the homeland security bill, or if negotiators reached agreement on an energy bill, terrorism insurance, a port security measure or other issues in talks between the House and Senate. Those issues, along with remaining spending bills and stalled nominations, could also be taken up in the post-election session.
"We are not pulling the plug," said John Feehery, a spokesman for Speaker J. Dennis Hastert. "We are making a practical decision that instead of sitting here twiddling our thumbs waiting for the Senate, we can put more pressure on the Senate by getting our constituents involved."
In the Senate, Democrats accepted the funding measure through an agreement with Republicans, though one Democratic leader said it was done reluctantly.
"This is not the right way to run government," the leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, said.
The passage of what is known as a continuing resolution was made necessary by the inability of Congress to pass many of its spending bills this year. The Senate approved a record $355 billion defense spending measure today on a 93-to-1 vote, making it only the second of 13 required bills to be passed by both chambers and sent to President Bush. The House passed three other of the spending bills, and the Senate has passed one other spending bill.
Republicans in both the House and the Senate said the failure of the Senate to approve a budget this year threw the appropriations process into disarray, but Democrats say disputes among Republicans on spending levels derailed the program.
House Republicans said they did not think they would be criticized by their constituents for bringing their work to a stop.
"I think we have a good defense in saying that if the Senate will pass something, we will come back," said Representative Porter J. Goss, Republican of Florida. 
Representative Doc Hastings, Republican of Washington, said, "The other body, on many pieces of legislation, is behind us."
Some Republicans said the decision could be a political problem for lawmakers in tight House and Senate races who were hoping that Congress could provide some drought relief for farmers and ranchers.
Democrats said Republicans should be held accountable.
"It is a complete abdication of Congressional responsibility," said Representative Charles W. Stenholm, Democrat of Texas.
House Republicans also dropped their plan to bring up a package of tax breaks for investors and other economic provisions, including an extension of unemployment benefits for some workers.
The legislation, which had been scheduled to come up on the House floor today, was pulled after some Republicans in tight election races said they had other priorities, including the drought aid. Some moderate Republicans had also been wary of voting on the tax provisions, which would largely benefit upper-income people, at a time when many low- and moderate-income people are being squeezed by the weak economy or are nervous about their jobs. 
In the Senate, lawmakers also restored lapsed budget rules as leaders sought to avoid what they feared could become legislative guerrilla warfare.
Leaders of both parties backed the reinstatement for six months of what are known as budget enforcement rules. Under these restrictions, put in place in the early 1990's to try to force Congress to live within its means, bills that increase spending or cut taxes beyond levels allowed in the budget require 60 votes to waive the rules. 
That 60-vote threshold has made it difficult for backers of costly new spending programs or tax cuts to get their way in the Senate, and some senators feared that lawmakers would try to bring such popular but expensive measures to the floor if the budget rules were gone for much longer.
"The most significant opportunity to save taxpayers money for the next fiscal year is this little resolution," said Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, the senior Republican on the Budget Committee.
Mr. Domenici introduced the legislation along with Senator Kent Conrad, the North Dakota Democrat who is chairman of the budget panel. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGETS (91%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); MINIMUM WAGE (68%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (66%); TERRORISM (66%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%) CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (72%); HARRY REID (58%); DAVE OBEY (58%) HULSE, CARL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



497 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Medical Use Of Marijuana Gains Support 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
Flanked by terminally ill people who told tales of unrelenting pain, Tom Golisano today endorsed the medical use of marijuana, and lashed out at Gov. George E. Pataki for blocking a state program to provide the drug to patients.
 "My approach to this issue is to return the discretion to the doctors, who are trained to make these decisions," said Mr. Golisano, the Independence Party candidate for governor. He charged that Mr. Pataki was opposed "because he is in the pocket of the big drug companies who stand to lose money if medical marijuana is made available." 
 Mr. Pataki's administration, like that of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, has refused to put into effect a 1980 law letting severely sick people use marijuana, subject to a prescription and approval by a state board. Some doctors and patients say that in some cases, marijuana is more effective against pain than standard medicines, and it can combat the appetite loss that contributes to many seriously ill people's wasting away.
H. Carl McCall, the Democratic candidate, like Mr. Golisano, says he would activate the state program.
In the past, aides to Mr. Pataki, a Republican, have flatly said he opposes medical marijuana. Asked about it today at upstate stops in Saratoga Springs and Bolton Landing, the governor at first declined to give an opinion, saying only that "our medical professionals" did not think marijuana use was warranted.
When pressed, he said, "They have concluded that it is not justified at this time, that there are alternatives, and I support that conclusion."
Mr. Golisano continues to try to broaden his appeal, after spending most of the campaign wooing disaffected voters upstate by emphasizing the poor economy there. In recent weeks, he has proposed free or reduced tuition for public college students, and spoken out about issues like medical marijuana and easing the Rockefeller-era drug laws, issues that are more likely to appeal to voters in New York City.
"There's no question upstate the economy is the main thing on people's minds," he said. "As we move downstate, there's probably much greater concern about the Rockefeller drug laws."
Lisa Reiss, one of the people who joined Mr. Golisano today at the Albany Public Library, has multiple sclerosis and uses a wheelchair. She said her husband, who died from AIDS and cancer, "lasted a lot longer with the help of the marijuana."
"I've used it," she said. "It has eased a lot of my pain. I would use it again if it was legal."
Mr. McCall, casting about for an issue that will rescue his foundering campaign, called today for the Justice Department to investigate links between the Pataki administration and a company founded by, among others, Pataki campaign contributors. The company, CarePlus, has won a series of state contracts, despite poor performance ratings.
In a statement, Mr. Pataki's campaign manager, Adam Stoll, dismissed the entire McCall campaign as "hysterical and desperate."
A Quinnipiac University poll released today showed Mr. Pataki still holding a strong lead over Mr. McCall among likely voters, 47 percent to 31 percent, while Mr. Golisano had his best showing yet in a public survey, 18 percent.
Mr. McCall was in California today to raise money, forcing him to rely on surrogates to stump for him. In a series of news conferences around the state, his supporters unveiled his new television advertisement, one that accuses the governor of "trying to fool us again." It responds to a Pataki ad in which Mr. McCall appears to say that upstate school districts should get less money from the state, and says that, in fact, he would give more to those schools.
The events pointed up the difficulty Mr. McCall has had in making pointed, high-volume responses to the governor's attacks. In this case, the Pataki ad has been on the air for two weeks, largely unanswered, to devastating effect.
The Working Families Party, which supports Mr. McCall, today began broadcasting a separate ad, attacking the governor on education by parodying one of Mr. Pataki's.
The Pataki ad shows several children saying what they want to be when they grow up, including a girl who says she wants to be governor. In the Working Families version, when Mr. Pataki says he, too, wants to be governor, a large red "F" lands on the image of his face. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANNABIS (95%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (93%); GOVERNORS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (89%); HERBAL MEDICINE (89%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); DECRIMINALIZATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); TUITION FEES (75%); DRUG POLICY (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (72%); APPROVALS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (50%) DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; MARIJUANA; ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS; DRUG LEGALIZATION 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; GOLISANO, TOM; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



498 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: THE HUNT FOR A SNIPER: THE SPECULATION; 
Hints, but No Evidence of Terrorism

BYLINE:  By DAVID JOHNSTON and FOX BUTTERFIELD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
The methodical cold-bloodedness of the shootings in the Washington area, the inexplicable targeting of victims and the elusiveness of the gunman have stirred speculation that the killings could be the work of a terrorist. 
 But so far, investigators say there is no evidence that the sniper is motivated by a political grievance or has anything other than intensely personal motives. 
 "Nobody is taking anything off the table in terms of motive," one senior government official said. "But right now what we know just doesn't seem to fit with terrorism." 
Terrorism experts largely agreed. "I'd say he is absolutely not Al Qaeda," said William Cowan, a retired Marine counterterrorist officer who is chief executive of the WVC3 Group, a consulting firm that works on security for the government and corporations. "If this was Al Qaeda, they'd be doing it in 10 cities around the United States, not just around Washington, because they want to disrupt America, undermine our economy and spread terror."
With so little known about the gunman, the experts say, it is possible he may have some political agenda. Moreover, the killings have aroused precisely the kind of anxiety that many people equate with terrorist acts. The shootings have also occurred at the same time as a surge in violence associated with Islamic extremism and Al Qaeda, Osama bin Laden's terror network.
"You can't rule anything out," said Bruce Hoffman, a terrorism expert in the Washington office of the RAND Corporation, said of the sniper. "He doesn't conform to any existing terrorist operandi. But on the other hand, he doesn't conform to any known operandi." 
Government officials said the victims, even Linda Franklin, the F.B.I. terrorism analyst who was shot on Monday, appeared to be selected at random as targets of opportunity near highway escape routes.
If the killer is motivated by politics, there has been no indication of it. The only known communication from the killer, a tarot death card left near the scene of a shooting of a 13-year-old student critically wounded on Oct. 9, made no reference to any political cause. The authorities said the card suggested that the shooter was emotionally troubled. 
The card, "la mort," numbered XIII in the deck, had an added communication that said, "Dear Policeman, I am God."
A senior official said behaviorial scientists had interpreted the message as a challenge to the authorities, but without political content. The official said the shooting of the boy was not typical of terrorists, who sometimes try to limit injuries to children and young people, knowing that such casualties can arouse sympathy for victims and undercut the intended political message.
Not all investigators are positive that rage is the sole factor that motivates the shootings since terrorist violence has also increased recently.
The shootings began on Oct. 2, four days before an audiotape made by Ayman al-Zawahiri, the top lieutenant of Mr. bin Laden, was broadcast on Al Jazeera. In the tape, Mr. Zawahiri urged Mr. bin Laden's followers to strike economic targets, an exhortation that seemed to dovetail with the suburban killings that have scared many customers away from shopping malls.
The shootings also echo a rampage outside the headquarters of the Central Intelligence Agency in 1993 in Langley, when Mir Aimal Kansi, an anti-American extremist from Pakistan, killed two C.I.A. employees and wounded three others with an assault rifle.
"You don't have to be a member of Al Qaeda's A team to be part of Al Qaeda," Mr. Hoffman said.
Al Qaeda has always functioned on multiple levels, he said, from professional operatives to trained amateurs to local walk-ins inspired by Mr. bin Laden.
At a briefing on Tuesday, Tom Ridge, the homeland security director, said he could not exclude any possibilities.
"Unfortunately under these horrific circumstances," Mr. Ridge said, "you don't want to draw any premature conclusions, because we need to apprehend the individual or the individuals first and then determine what diabolic, what evil mindset causes someone to murder innocent people."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Ridge said he could not exclude the possibility of terrorism in the snipings. Ayman al-Zawahiri has urged strikes on economic targets. (Photographs by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (99%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (93%); AL-QAEDA (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); RELIGION (65%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; TERRORISM; SERIAL MURDERS 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (57%) JOHNSTON, DAVID; BUTTERFIELD, FOX 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) WASHINGTON (DC); MARYLAND; VIRGINIA; AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



499 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Newark Council Approves Plan to Finance New Arena 

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: NEWARK, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
The Newark City Council approved plans tonight to help pay for the construction cost of a long-sought arena in the city's downtown for the New Jersey Nets and Devils sports teams.
 The action by the Council kept alive a plan that had faltered in the attempt to get state financing under three successive governors in the last five years. 
 The plan calls for the city to use its own money, a decision that will bring the idea of an arena that Mayor Sharpe James said would spur the city's economic renaissance to the point where the only remaining hurdle is a final agreement with the YankeeNets, the owner of the basketball and hockey teams. The two teams have long wanted to move to Newark from the Meadowlands Sports Complex in East Rutherford, N.J. 
The city will provide money for the arena out of the proceeds of a new lease with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey for the city's airport. By a 7-to-2 vote, the Council tonight approved a 63-year lease.
The lease would provide the city with an immediate cash infusion totaling $265 million and annual rent payments of no less than $65 million annually for the next decade. The immediate cash payment would be used not only to finance the city's share of the projected $355 million, 18,500-seat arena, but als to allow the city to close a gap in its current budget as well as provide some relief for taxpayers who face a revaluation of the properties.
In the end, it was these additional benefits from the lease that persuaded some council members to approve an arrangement that some said had many unanswered questions and was by no means a solution to all of the city's problems.
"It is not a solution to all of our problems, but a steppingstone," Councilman Augusto Amador said.
Mr. James heralded the winning vote, which he cobbled together over the last two months amid many doubts expressed by the nine-member Council.
"This is going to be the most significant vote in the history of Newark," Mr. James said after the Council's decision. "It will establish an economic engine for Newark and we can't even begin to imagine the economic impact of 18,500 people coming to 268 events a year at the arena."
Mayor James said that the city and the YankeeNets had already been talking for the last week in an effort to get the arena proposal back on track after it was last derailed in the State Legislature in July. Since then the teams' owner had closed its office in Newark and vowed not to spend any more of the estimated $130 million that is the teams' owner's share of the cost of the project. But Mayor James said that with the City Council action tonight, he was confident that the teams' owner would return to the negotiating table. Mr. James said the city hoped to see the teams' owner agree to finance up to $140 million of the project with its own money and cover any cost overruns. An additional $35 million would be borrowed by the city and paid off with increased tax revenues from the project, while the final $15 million would be obtained from other sources, the mayor said.
The possibility of funds from the airport lease arrangement that could help finance the new arena first emerged in August. The proposed deal with the Port Authority was brokered by Mayor James with the help of Gov. James E. McGreevey.
For the Port Authority's part, the new lease offered to lock in its control of the airport for 63 years, resolve some troubling legal disputes with Newark over airport revenues, and win the city's acquiescence in changing the airport's name to Newark Liberty International Airport in memory of the victims of the Sept. 11 terror attacks.
It would also give the city $65 million a year in rent on the airport, up from the $18 million the city now receives. The lease would require Newark to drop one of its lawsuits against the Port Authority aimed at shaking loose airport revenue and enter into immediate settlement talks on a second lawsuit.
But council members and their lawyers balked at the deal, charging that the city was giving up too much and getting too little from the Port Authority. In the last two months Mayor James has worked to persuade them to support the deal while trying to wring more concessions from the Port Authority.
He said in an interview that he had managed to win some concessions from the Port Authority. For one thing, the revised lease gives the city $7.6 million for unrestricted use that had been held in a development fund for Newark, but restricted to airport improvements. 
But Assemblyman Donald Tucker, a Newark councilman, said the lease deal failed to address some basic questions, such as how rents would rise with inflation, the components of the airport's gross revenues on which increases in the rent would be based, and the fate of current litigation against the Port Authority in which the city stands to gain $500 million in back payments.
"These are basic things and they aren't answered," said Mr. Tucker, who charged that the mayor had secretly met with six members of the Council last week to preview the deal. Mr. James said the meeting was held, not secretly, to explain the mayor's approach to the council members. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); APPROVALS (91%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); MAYORS (89%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); PORT AUTHORITIES (68%); CLOSINGS (50%) ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; STADIUMS AND ARENAS; BASKETBALL; HOCKEY, ICE 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (91%); NEW JERSEY NETS (91%) NEW JERSEY NETS; NEW JERSEY DEVILS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%)

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



500 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: JAKARTA; 
Indonesia Links Muslim Group With Terrorism

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND BONNER and JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
The Indonesian government, under pressure from the United States to act decisively against terrorism here, took a major step today toward declaring a fundamentalist Islamic group, Jemaah Islamiyah, a terrorist organization.
 For nearly a year, Indonesia has dismissed claims that the organization was a threat, or even that it existed. But this week, several foreign governments said that they had strong reason to believe that Jemaah Islamiyah was involved in the blast in Bali. 
 At a news conference this morning, Indonesia's minister for state security, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, said that Jakarta had to "respect and believe" assertions that Jemaah Islamiyah was part of "an international terrorist network." 
He added that Indonesia "cannot disagree" with the views of Singapore and Malaysia that Jemaah Islamiyah is a terrorist organization.
In another abrupt about-face, Mr. Yudhoyono conceded that the organization's leader is Abu Bakar Bashir, a 64-year-old preacher who runs an Islamic boarding school in central Java. Mr. Bashir, who expresses admiration for Osama bin Laden and loathing for Jews and the West, has steadfastly denied that there is any such group as Jemaah Islamiyah.
Mr. Yudhoyono also acknowledged for the first time publicly that another Indonesia cleric, Hambali, is a leader of Jemaah Islamiyah.
In a recent interview, Singaporean intelligence officials -- who by nearly all accounts have the best dossier on Jemaah Islamiyah -- said that Mr. Hambali was inducted into Al Qaeda's inner circle, a rare occurrence for a non-Arab, and was the mastermind of several bombing attacks in Southeast Asia. It was through Mr. Hambali that Jemaah Islamiyah, which began as a religious movement in the 1970's, made common cause with Al Qaeda in the 1990's, according to Asian and Western intelligence agencies.
Philippine officials said today that they plan to indict Mr. Hambali, who has been a fugitive for many months, on charges of illegal possession of explosives.
The indictment charges that in 2000, Mr. Hambali instructed another member of Jemaah Islamiyah to buy at least five tons of explosives that were to be used for the attacks on the American and Israeli Embassies in Singapore last December. The attacks were thwarted by Singaporean police, but not all of the explosives were recovered, raising the possibility that they may have been used in the Bali bombing. 
Mr. Yudhoyono stopped short of saying that Indonesia was prepared to arrest Mr. Bashir, a step that the United States and other countries have requested, or declare outright that Jemaah Islamiyah is a terrorist organization. Such a declaration would make it easier for the government to proscribe its activities. 
He said that the government would have to await the return of Indonesian intelligence officials who he said were on their way back from Pakistan after interrogating Omar al-Faruq, an admitted Al Qaeda operative. Mr. Faruq told the C.I.A. last month that Mr. Bashir, despite his denials, was responsible for several terrorist attacks in Indonesia and was behind plans to blow up the American Embassy there.
Mr. Faruq has been detained at the American base in Bagram, Afghanistan, since being picked up here by Indonesian intelligence and turned over to the United States in June.
Another senior Indonesian official explained this evening that the government wanted to build political support in the country before cracking down on Jemaah Islamiyah. This would be easier, the official said, if it did not appear that the government was acting solely on what it had learned from the United States.
Indonesian officials also said today that President Megawati Sukarnoputri was planning to issue a decree that would allow the country's intelligence agency to pick up terrorist suspects and question them for as long as seven days without filing any formal charges. She is expected to act before Saturday, officials said.
Today, after meetings with Mr. Yudhoyono and Mrs. Megawati, Australia's foreign minister, Alexander Downer, said he expected Jakarta to take some action "in the next week or so" on Jemaah Islamiyah or Mr. Bashir. Most of those killed in the blast this weekend were Australians.
The American Embassy today denied a Washington Post report that the United States had specific information in advance about a terrorist attack on a tourist site in Bali. If the United States had such information, a diplomat said, American Embassy personnel would not have been in Bali on vacation last weekend, which some were.
The American Embassy also said that Ambassador Ralph Boyce had met with Mrs. Megawati not the day before the Bali blast, as had been reported in The Times, but the week before. He met with other officials the day before the blast, relaying general information about a possible terrorist attack. 
Without providing details, an Indonesian intelligence official said today that investigators are now convinced that Al Qaeda and Jemaah Islamiyah carried out the Bali attack, which is what American and Australian officials have said as well. The attack has the characteristics of other Qaeda operations -- the bombings of the American Embassies in Africa and more recent attacks in Pakistan, officials said. It was meticulously planned, the target shrewdly chosen to inflict maximum economic, political and physical damage. Indonesian officials added that local groups lack the expertise to make a bomb like the one used. 
Singaporean officials said in the recent interview that explosives experts trained at Qaeda camps in Afghanistan had been sent to Singapore to work alongside Jemaah Islamiyah members in the foiled plot to blow up the American Embassy. 
Literally translated, "Jemaah Islamiyah" means "Islamic Community." Mr. Bashir is the spiritual leader of Jemaah Islamiyah, while Mr. Hambali, who is in his late 30's, is in charge of operations, Asian intelligence officials say.
In the 1970's, Mr. Bashir and other Islamic scholars saw the creation of an Islamic community as the first step toward establishing an Islamic state across an arc of Southeast Asia. When the Suharto dictatorship cracked down on the Islamists, in the mid- to late-1980's, Mr. Bashir and others fled to Malaysia.
Mr. Hambali had fought in Afghanistan against the Soviet Union in the 1980's. After the Soviet withdrawal he, like so many veterans of that campaign, took up a religious struggle against the West.
It appears he first took action in the Philippines. Intelligence officials there say he was part of the group with Ramzi Yousef that plotted to blow up 11 airliners over the Pacific and to assassinate the pope in the early 1990's. Mr. Yousef is now in jail in the United States, convicted of masterminding the first attack on the World Trade Center, in 1993.
By the mid-1990's, Mr. Hambali, who had sworn an oath of allegiance to Mr. Bashir, had set up an elaborate but highly clandestine operation across Southeast Asia and Australia.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Abu Bakar Bashir is said to be the leader of Jemaah Islamiyah. (Dimas Ardian/JiwaFoto)(pg. A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (97%); TERRORISM (96%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); FUNDAMENTALISM (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); RELIGION (90%); EXPLOSIVES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); INDICTMENTS (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (62%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; FOREIGN SERVICE; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES 

ORGANIZATION: JEMAAH ISLAMIYA (94%); AL-QAEDA (82%) JEMMAH ISLAMIYAH (TERRORIST GROUP); AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: SUSILO BAMBANG YUDHOYONO (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (88%) BONNER, RAYMOND; PERLEZ, JANE; BASHIR, ABU BAKAR; BIN LADEN, OSAMA; YUDHOYONO, SUSILO BAMBANG (MIN); HAMBALI (RIUDAN ISAMUDDIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%) INDONESIA (96%); SINGAPORE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%) INDONESIA; BALI (INDONESIA); PHILIPPINES; SINGAPORE; ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



501 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS; 
Time Inc. Is Closing Sports Illustrated Women

BYLINE:  BY DAVID CARR 

 BODY:
For the second time this month, Time Inc. has shut down a money-losing magazine. Sports Illustrated Women, published 10 times a year, ceased publication yesterday. 
 Last week, Time Inc. shut Mutual Funds, a monthly personal finance magazine. The two moves suggest that the company, a unit of AOL Time Warner, is showing less patience for unprofitable magazines in a difficult publishing environment. 
 The 45 employees were notified yesterday that the December issue of the magazine, which had a circulation of 400,000, would be its last.
It is not the first time a big publisher has failed to find an audience with a magazine aimed at women athletes. Conde Nast Women's Sports and Fitness, a unit of Advance Publications, closed in 2000 after three years of publication. Publishing executives say women are generally more interested in playing sports then watching them, and seem less interested in a magazine about athletes.
The current Sports Illustrated Women was conceived and edited by Susan Casey, a former editor at Outside, the adventure magazine based in New Mexico. It received a National Magazine Award nomination this year for general excellence.
Time Inc. began testing the magazine in 1997 and regular publication started in 2000. It was hoped that the brand of Sports Illustrated would help crack what has been a difficult niche, but the storied name did not have the intended effect. Indeed, Ms. Casey said she thought the name was a problem, giving the misleading impression that the magazine was for viewers of sports events.
"We defined sports as anything outside of sitting in a La-Z-Boy recliner, which is different than Sports Illustrated," said Ms. Casey, the managing editor.
The magazine went through a number of versions, including an initial emphasis on women athletes, both amateurs and professional. It then became a fitness magazine in search of an audience.
Ann S. Moore, chief executive of Time Inc., had considered taking the magazine out of the Sports Illustrated group at Time Inc. and sending it to the People group, which has more history with the women's audience. But Ms. Moore, said a company executive, thought that the lack of support among advertisers made shutting it down the only realistic move.
Although she has long been a supporter of Sports Illustrated Women, Ms. Moore inherited a division of AOL Time Warner that had produced 10 consecutive years of earnings growth, a record she would not like to interrupt. While Ms. Moore has to invest in new projects to put future earnings growth in the pipeline, she was apparently unwilling to stick with a magazine that was not soon approaching profitability.
"We are in a lousy economic climate and it is a less forgiving time," said Isolde Motley, corporate editor of Time Inc. "If this were a different time when we could give things more leeway, it would have been wonderful to watch this magazine develop. I thought it was brilliantly executed."
Sports Illustrated Women is the second brand extension that has failed to blossom. CNN/SI, the television network that had been created to compete with ESPN, closed earlier this year. 
Sports Illustrated, which had an average circulation of 3.25 million for the first six months of the year, serves an audience that includes large numbers of males whose sport of choice involves a remote control and the game of the week. The explosion of pro sports in the last four decades has fueled enormous growth at the magazine, but women's professional sports are still in a nascent stage. 
To survive, both Sports Illustrated Women and Conde Nast Sports and Fitness tried to move away from pure sports identification and more into a fitness-focused editorial package. As soon as the Conde Nast executives saw the results of the first issue on the newsstand, they changed the name of the magazine to include fitness.
"Women see sports as an extension of fitness," said Lucy S. Danziger, editor in chief of Self and the former editor of Conde Nast Sports for Women. "Men see fitness as an extension of sports. There is a huge population of women who are interested in fitness, but a much smaller number of hard-core fitness enthusiasts who are interested in reading about sports."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WOMEN (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); ATHLETES (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); WOMEN'S MARKET (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); SPORTS FANS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) MAGAZINES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; WOMEN 

COMPANY: TIME INC (95%); AOL INC (73%)

ORGANIZATION: TIME INC; SPORTS ILLUSTRATED FOR WOMEN (MAGAZINE) 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (73%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (73%) SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: ANN MOORE (79%) CARR, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



502 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: MOSCOW'S POCKETBOOK; 
Oil Prize, Past and Present, Ties Russia to Iraq

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
As Russia defends its position during a two-day United Nations debate on Iraq, one thing will weigh on the minds of Russian diplomats: oil.
 Russian oil companies have extensive interests in Iraq that reach back to Soviet times, when the two countries were allied. Revenue from Russia's own oil production is crucial to the government's budget, making the country very sensitive to any sudden swings in world oil prices that might be touched off by military action. 
 As many as 300 Russian companies now do business with Iraq, under a United Nations program set up in 1996 permitting Baghdad, which is under a trade embargo, to sell some oil to pay for essential imports like food and medicine. Russian companies control the rights to sell 40 percent of Iraq's oil on world markets. 
But the real prizes are Iraq's oil fields, which are now producing at far below their potential. Iraq's reserves are second in size only to Saudi Arabia's, and Iraq has offered Russian companies development rights to some of its richest fields.
About 10 Russian companies have development agreements with Iraq, not all of them formalized into contracts. Two, Lukoil and Tatneft, are mainly publicly traded; the Russian state controls many of the others, including Slavneft, Rosneft, and the Russian natural gas monopoly, Gazprom.
Zarubezhneft, a smaller state-owned company operating in Iraq since the late 1960's that has acted as the coordinator of Russian oil business there, estimates that there are 70 billion barrels of oil, more than half of Iraq's total reserves, in the fields covered by the Russian companies' deals with Baghdad.
"It's huge, it's a colossal amount," said Nikolai P. Tokarev, general director of Zarubezhneft and a member of a Russian government commission on Iraq.
But very little oil is being produced now at the fields because of the embargo. Lukoil, Russia's largest oil company, has a majority stake in Iraq's giant West Qurna oil field, with an estimated seven billion barrels of recoverable oil, but has yet to get any of it out of the ground.
The Russian companies are worried that if military action by the United States pries Iraq loose from Saddam Hussein's grip, it will also break their own hold on these potentially lucrative fields.
"If there is military action, the prospects for us in Iraq will be zero," Mr. Tokarev said in an interview. "Do Americans need us in Iraq? Of course not. Russian companies will lose the oil forever if the Americans come."
The Russian state also has direct financial interests in Iraq, in the form of about $7.6 billion in debts Iraq ran up with the Soviet Union that have not yet been repaid. Russia also has a huge stake in keeping the world oil market from being flooded by new production from Iraq that would drive prices down. 
"Russia needs Iraq economically," said Aleksei Arbatov, deputy chairman of the defense committee in the Russian Parliament. "Iraq acknowledges its debt to Russia; a new regime might not." If the new regime -- favorably inclined toward Americans -- sells oil without limits, "our budget will collapse."
The Bush administration has argued that Russia stands to gain more from a government change in Baghdad than from its current business ties there, especially from the lifting of the economic sanctions that have hobbled business for 12 years. Still, American officials say they cannot give any guarantees.
"We've made it clear to them that we understand their economic interests," said a senior American official in an interview last week. "It does not mean we'll sign blank checks. The approach will be to offer them a level playing field."
That position seemed to suit President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, who commented at a joint press conference with Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain in Moscow last week that he had not invited Mr. Blair to an "Oriental bazaar," implying he was not bargaining with Mr. Blair over Iraq.
Still, Vagit Y. Alekperov, Lukoil's chief executive, said last week that Mr. Putin had given him assurances that his company's interests in Iraq would be preserved. A Lukoil spokesman said this week that Mr. Alekperov was referring to a conversation he had with Mr. Putin in September.
Even so, the Russian companies here are hedging their bets. The commodities trading firm Alfa-Eco last week concluded its largest contract so far under the United Nations program, covering up to 20 million barrels of oil. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); TERRORISM (59%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (67%); OAO LUKOIL (55%); OAO TATNEFT (55%); OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%) UNITED NATIONS 

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (67%); GAZP (RTS) (67%); LKOH (RTS) (55%); LKOD (LSE) (55%); TATN (RTS) (55%); ATAD (LSE) (55%); ROSN (RTS) (54%); ROSN (LSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (67%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (67%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (67%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (67%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (67%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) TABERNISE, SABRINA; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) IRAQ; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



503 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Insuring Against Terrorism 

 BODY:
In discussing what Congress must do to help the economy, President Bush invariably mentions the need to create a federal program to provide "terrorism insurance" that would indemnify insurance companies against some of the huge costs of another terrorist attack. If Mr. Bush truly believes this to be a vital priority, he should press House Republican leaders to make a deal with Senate Democrats before everyone heads home to hit the campaign trail. 
 A deal is within easy reach. The House and Senate have already passed bills aimed at encouraging insurance companies to write more affordable terrorism policies, by having the government step in to cover most of the damages that exceed $10 billion. In reconciling the two bills, there is widespread agreement on the program's financial details. Trouble is, some members of Congress are determined to turn this issue into the latest battleground in Washington's tort reform wars. 
 Many Republicans refuse to accept the bill unless it bans punitive damages (except against terrorists). And Democratic leaders are reluctant to agree to any significant erosion of plaintiffs' ability to seek them. Punitive damages, a lightning rod for tort reformers, are awarded by juries not to compensate victims for their injuries, but to punish a reckless defendant and deter future misbehavior.
The White House and moderate Democrats need to find some middle ground on this issue. In conference talks, Senators Charles Schumer of New York and Christopher Dodd of Connecticut, two Democrats who are less committed than some of their colleagues to the trial lawyers' lobby, have proposed allowing all cases stemming from a terrorist incident to be consolidated in federal court, barring any punitive damages from being paid by the government or private insurers and adopting a tough liability standard. 
The Bush administration, meanwhile, has indicated it could accept severely limited punitive damages. What all sides must acknowledge is that whatever is agreed upon in the context of a discrete terrorism insurance program need not be considered binding in other tort-reform battles. 
Congress must not delay any further. Private insurers faced more than $40 billion in claims from the Sept. 11 attacks, and the industry is not in a position to sustain another catastrophe of that magnitude. Many insurers no longer offer terrorism coverage, once routine in general property policies, and others are charging astronomical rates for very limited coverage. This has stalled new commercial projects worth billions of dollars across the country, and left other businesses with inadequate coverage.
Lawmakers will be making a terrible mistake if they fail to compromise. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); INSURANCE (90%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (90%); INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DAMAGES (90%); TORTS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); TORT REFORM (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); JURY TRIALS (74%); LAWYERS (68%) TERRORISM; LAW AND LEGISLATION; INSURANCE; EDITORIALS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



504 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: DIPLOMACY; 
U.S. Is Putting Heavy Pressure on France and Other Skeptics for a U.N. Resolution

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is mounting a campaign of public pressure and private diplomatic and economic concessions to persuade France and other skeptical members of the United Nations Security Council to go along with a single resolution threatening military force against Iraq.
 With rising concern in Washington that time is short for passage of such a resolution -- many experts say military action would be easier in the winter -- talks on the resolution's wording are accelerating at the United Nations and in meetings and telephone calls in and between capitals. 
 "There's no sense that the French don't want to do this," an administration official said, referring to a tough United Nations resolution on Iraq. "But there is a growing frustration that we don't yet have an agreement."
President Jacques Chirac of France, in another sign of disagreement with the United States, appeared in remarks published today to take issue with President Bush's arguments that Iraq is cultivating links with Al Qaeda and wants, as he said on Monday, to use it as "a forward army." 
"As far as I know, no proof has been found, or at least been made official, for a link between Iraq and Al Qaeda," Mr. Chirac said in the interview in the Beirut-based, French-language newspaper L'Orient-Le Jour. "Even if certain terrorists could have been able to find refuge in Iraq, we must not mix up the issues. The first objective of action by the international community is Iraq, and that means disarmament." 
Last month, Mr. Bush won praise, especially among war opponents in Europe, for promising to go to the United Nations for approval before taking military action against Saddam Hussein's government in Baghdad.
But after intense discussions and a certain impatience in Washington, now France, Russia and China -- which have vetoes on the Security Council -- remain opposed to giving the administration an automatic option to use force if Iraq fails to comply with new weapons inspections.
France wants the United States to go to a second stage and get later authorization for using force if Mr. Hussein rebuffs the United Nations inspectors.
France, which has a history of going its own way in NATO and maintains strong links to the Arab world, has emerged as a bigger stumbling block than Russia or China, which do not consider themselves American allies, administration officials said.
American officials express confidence that if they can persuade Mr. Chirac to go along with a single United Nations resolution, Moscow and Beijing will follow suit by either agreeing to it or not vetoing it.
At least so far, officials say, France is resisting an administration proposal to have the resolution threaten unspecified "consequences," rather than a more explicit reference to force, if the inspection process collapses.
Diplomats familiar with the negotiations said the Bush Administration could interpret the word "consequences" as tantamount to pre-approval for military action. At the same time, they said Washington was offering private assurances that the United States would not ignore the Security Council.
"This could end up with something that is not a one-stage or a two-stage process," said a diplomat familiar with the talks. "The word is that it will be one-and-a-half stages."
"The French really do want to be with us," a senior State Department official said. "The French are worried that if the first resolution authorizes all necessary means to enforce inspections, we might go to war without checking with them. What they want is to keep the Security Council in the picture. We believe that can be done in the context of one resolution. That's our goal."
In a sense, the negotiations at the United Nations are running along the same lines as Mr. Bush's talks with Congress over the last month.
The administration won support of skeptical lawmakers in part because of personal assurances from Mr. Bush that Congress would be consulted in the event of a war. Similarly, the United States is making promises of consultation with United Nations allies if a conflict occurs.
In the background are firm and even threatening words from Mr. Bush, who declared today that the United Nations must "face up" to the danger from the Hussein government. "Those who choose to live in denial may eventually be forced to live in fear," he said at a ceremony at which he signed the resolution passed by Congress last week authorizing the use of force against Baghdad. A White House official said he was not referring to any particular nation. 
Mr. Chirac, who was in Alexandria, Egypt, today for the beginning of a Middle East trip, reiterated his support for a two-stage resolution process. He said the Security Council should authorize force only as a last resort if the Iraqis were not acting in good faith.
A separate drama is playing itself out behind the scenes, some administration officials said. That is the role of Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who is the administration's main advocate of diplomacy as a means to address Iraq, rather than simply threats of force.
Vice President Dick Cheney and Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld are said to be most skeptical that diplomacy can work. Their fear, according to officials, is that Mr. Hussein can drag out the diplomatic and inspection process.
Mr. Rumsfeld and Mr. Cheney are also the ones demanding a single resolution at the United Nations that explicitly threatens force if the inspection route fails, officials said.
They are also said to want a swift timetable for inspections and additional measures, like armed escorts for inspectors and removing Iraqi scientists and their families from the country for interviews.
Diplomats in and out of the government say France wants to see the United Nations play a continuing role so that the French can remain part of the process. 
"The French want to look like they constrained or shaped what the United States ends up doing," said Dennis Ross, the former Middle East negotiator in the Clinton and first Bush administrations. "They want to be relevant and to make sure that the Security Council remains relevant. But they don't want to be left out if the United States goes to war."
Many experts say France's potential economic interests in a future Iraq are a factor in its wanting eventually to be on the side of Washington if Mr. Hussein is overthrown. Russia also has strong oil interests in Iraq.
"Obviously French oil companies would want to be major players in Iraqi oil fields and in the export and refining of Iraqi oil in a post-Saddam Iraq," said Paul Sullivan, a professor of economics at the National Defense University in Washington. "The French signed oil deals in Iraq, but these deals cannot be implemented until after the sanctions against Iraq are taken off."
The Bush administration has gone out of its way to assure Moscow that in the event of a "regime change" in Baghdad, Russian interests will be looked after.
Recently Secretary Powell told the U.S.-Russia Business Council that the United States fully understood Russia's desire to play a role in Iraq's oil industry. "We are taking fully into account the interest of the nations in the region and the economic impact such a transition might have on them," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); VETO (89%); ARMIES (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); AL-QAEDA (72%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); AL-QAEDA (82%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JACQUES CHIRAC (78%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (77%) WEISMAN, STEVEN R; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); BEIJING, CHINA (53%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (53%) UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (95%); IRAQ (94%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (79%) IRAQ; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



505 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Some Yelp as MicrosoftSqueezes

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
Microsoft's plan to impose a new pricing program has been prompting a chorus of complaints from corporate and government customers for several months. But early results, analysts say, indicate that the move was shrewd financially -- at least in the short run.
 The new plan, according to Microsoft, is intended to simplify a pricing system for corporate and government customers that had grown complicated and confusing over the years. It moves customers to a subscription model of paying yearly fees for updated software, instead of deciding each time whether to buy a new version of Windows, Office or other Microsoft programs. 
 Some institutional customers pay more than before, and others less. Yet beyond the pricing details, many customers seem to resent being led on a forced march by the most powerful company in computing -- particularly in the midst of a weak economy, when most of them are cutting back on technology spending. 
"Any change like this means disruption, requiring you to rethink your spending plans," observed Anthony E. Scott, chief technology officer for information services at General Motors. "Microsoft had this in mind for some time, but it's unfortunate that it does come amid this downturn." 
But early results indicate that most customers have gone along. Some considered alternative software from rivals like Sun Microsystems, Corel and Novell, and there have been scattered defections, but not many. Any losses were far outweighed by a rush by customers to sign up for the plan before a July 31 deadline set by Microsoft.
Industry analysts estimate that those signings will add $600 million to more than $1 billion in revenue to Microsoft's results for the quarter ended in September, which the company reports on today. That extra spending is one reason Wall Street expects Microsoft to report strong quarterly results despite the technology sector's slump.
A survey of corporate chief information officers conducted in September by Merrill Lynch found that half of them had accelerated their spending on Microsoft licenses before the July deadline because prices went up afterward. "Customers are committed to Microsoft technology for the long term," said Christopher Shilakes, a Merrill Lynch analyst in San Francisco.
For Microsoft, the new pricing system should provide a steady, predictable stream of revenue from its dominant desktop software, Windows and Office, even though the desktop PC business is maturing and growth is slowing. 
"Microsoft has turned a lower growth and potentially volatile business into a consistent, steadily growing business," said Don Young, an analyst at UBS Warburg. "It's a brilliant move."
The new pricing system is also part of Microsoft's drive to move increasingly beyond its desktop franchise into the lucrative market of supplying corporate data centers. It offers the best terms to customers that buy not only the desktop products but also its Windows data-serving software, an area in which Microsoft competes with International Business Machines, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, Novell and others.
Microsoft is already making solid gains in the market for server software, with sales rising more than 10 percent for the last several quarters despite the overall fall in corporate software spending. Analysts say the new pricing system may magnify that trend.
Yet many Microsoft customers have signed up grudgingly for the new pricing system. Gary Beach, publisher of CIO magazine, regularly conducts panel discussions with chief information officers and said, "There is a lot of dissatisfaction with this, and it could hurt Microsoft in the future as companies look more and more at alternatives."
Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, said earlier this month, "With 20-20 hindsight, I probably wouldn't have made any of these changes when the economy was going to go south."
Microsoft estimates that under its new pricing system, half of its institutional customers will pay about the same as before, roughly 30 percent will pay less, and 20 percent will pay more.
The customers applauding the new pricing system tend to be companies that use mainly Microsoft software and upgrade regularly, like the Creative Artists Agency, whose agents represent actors and writers. "We pretty much use the latest and greatest stuff," said Michael Keathley, the agency's chief information officer. The firm uses 600 desktop PC's, 200 notebook computers and 100 servers, all mostly running the latest versions of Microsoft software.
Mr. Keathley said he had often complained about Microsoft's byzantine licensing systems. He expects Creative Artists to save 20 percent under the new system.
The customers that suffer from the new pricing policy are the ones that tend to run older versions of Microsoft software and upgrade only as needed. The city of Nanaimo in British Columbia, west of Vancouver, has 350 desktop PC's. Under Microsoft's new system, the cost for upgrading to the current versions of Office and buying a "software assurance" plan for updates over the next three years would have been about $170,000, according to city officials.
"It's just so Microsoft to throw something new like this at you and wring more out of the sponge," observed Cameron Scott, a member of the town's technical staff.
So Nanaimo has decided to convert about half of its desktop PC's to Sun Microsystems' StarOffice software, whose total cost over three years will be about 15 percent of Microsoft Office's.
Microsoft sales executives called officials to try to hold onto the city's business. But so far, Star Office is working well, though it lacks some features of Microsoft Office. "Ninety percent of our office workers use 10 percent of the features in Microsoft Office," Mr. Scott said. "If Microsoft's price came down so the gap wasn't so great, then we might rethink."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 19, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Thursday about Microsoft's pricing practices misspelled the name of the chief information officer of Creative Artists Agency, who predicted that the licensing structure would cut his firm's software costs by 20 percent. He is Michael Keithley, not Keathley.



GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, has said he is aware of complaints about a new pricing policy. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PRODUCT PRICING (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (75%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (75%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); NOVELL INC (54%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (54%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (51%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); IBMC (BRU) (57%); IBM (NYSE) (57%); IBM (LSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: STEVEN A BALLMER (89%) LOHR, STEVE; BALLMER, STEVEN A 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



506 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE U.N. DEBATE; 
Bush Garners Little Support At U.N. for an Attack on Iraq

BYLINE:  By JULIA PRESTON 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
The Bush administration's push for an early American-led war against Iraq drew broad opposition today in an unusual open debate in the Security Council. Many countries backed weapons inspections, and Arab states said they would not support an attack without United Nations endorsement, considering an attack only as a last resort. 
 In the first day of a special Council session, which was charged with the sense that the basic shape of global security was at stake, Secretary General Kofi Annan appealed to the Security Council to maintain unity, warning that the United Nations would be seriously weakened by a rift. 
 Iraq defiantly denied charges, which were repeated frequently today, that it had failed to comply with Council resolutions requiring it to give up weapons of mass destruction. 
Iraq's ambassador, Mohammed Aldouri, called the United Nations economic sanctions against his country an act of genocide. He sharply rejected the American and British proposal for a new, tougher resolution for Iraq to disarm, calling it "an insult to the international community and the United Nations." Excerpts from speeches, Page A18. 
In Washington, President Bush warned European and Arab nations that are resisting a confrontation with President Saddam Hussein that "those who choose to live in denial may eventually be forced to live in fear." 
After a meeting with the Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, Mr. Bush said he fully expected that Israel would retaliate for any unprovoked Iraqi attack. Page A11. 
Mr. Bush also painted a far more ominous picture than he has to date about the dangers of allowing the debate in the United Nations to drag on for more than a few weeks. 
"If Iraq gains even greater destructive power, nations in the Middle East would face blackmail, intimidation or attack," he said in the East Room, flanked by Vice President Dick Cheney, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. "Chaos in that region would be felt in Europe and beyond. And Iraq's combination of weapons of mass destruction and ties to terrorist groups and ballistic missiles would threaten the peace and security of many nations." 
The two-day public debate in the Security Council was called at the insistence of the nonaligned movement, a loose coalition of developing nations. Speakers today were from countries that do not hold seats on the 15-member Council, but were invited to join the debate. 
As intensive negotiations over a new resolution among the five permanent, veto-bearing Council powers dragged into the fifth week, the non-Council nations have become exasperated that their views were not being considered and demanded to be heard. 
With no Council votes, the nations that spoke today cannot directly influence the discussions on the resolution. But they included Egypt, Kuwait, Turkey and other nations that could be directly involved if the United States goes to war against Iraq, as well as the European Union, Canada and other important American allies. The veto-bearing members of the Council -- the United States, Britain, Russia, China and France -- are to speak on Thursday. 
The deadlock over the resolution continued today, with France and the United States wrangling over the stage at which to authorize military force. No meetings of the five permanent members to discuss Iraq were even on the schedule. 
Bush administration officials listened to the debate with only one ear, focusing on the detailed discussions among the Council power players. Washington remains determined to get a single resolution that would give it authority to launch a military attack, administration officials said. 
Mr. Annan, in a statement that was read in the Council as he traveled in Asia, said he supported a new resolution to strengthen the weapons' inspectors hands. He told Iraq that Baghdad was in violation of many resolutions.
"Iraq has to comply," Mr. Annan said bluntly, and he warned that the Council would have to "face its responsibilities" if it did not, a code word for war. But in a plea clearly directed at the United States and France, Mr. Annan said, "If you allow yourselves to be divided, the authority and credibility of this organization will undoubtedly suffer."
Mr. Annan's call for the Council to reach consensus was echoed by many nations, as was his demand for Iraq meet its obligations to the Council. There was also nearly unanimous support for allowing the United Nations weapons inspectors to return as soon as possible to Iraq to search for prohibited weapons programs. Many nations described the inspections as the last chance to force Baghdad to give up its most dangerous weapons without war. 
Apprehension about Washington's war plans to topple Mr. Hussein was especially strong among the Arab nations.
"An attack on Iraq would open a Pandora's box," said Yahia A. Mahmassani, the representative of the Arab League. "It will lead to civil and ethnic war in Iraq and also destabilize the whole Arab region, which is already outraged at the Israeli occupation," he said. 
"The war on Iraq will negate the present world order, the charter of the United Nations and international law," he said. 
Even Kuwait, which was freed from Iraqi occupation in the Persian Gulf war of 1991, insisted that "any use of force must be a last resort and within the United Nations framework, and only after all other available means have been exhausted." 
Arab representatives, including those from American allies like Egypt and Jordan, complained of a double standard, saying the Council had been less forceful in bringing Israel to comply with resolutions calling for a nuclear-free Middle East and for it to withdraw from lands occupied in the 1967 war. 
"It would be tragic if the Security Council were to pre-judge the work of the inspectors before they set foot in Iraq," said South Africa's ambassador, Dumisani S. Kumalo, who was also speaking on behalf of the nonaligned nations.
Iran, a neighbor that fought a bloody eight-year war with Iraq, objected strongly to the Bush administration's policy of "regime change" for the Iraqi leader, calling it "fully alien" to international law. Ambassador Javad Zarif warned that an attack on Iraq would "sow seeds of new hatred" in the Middle East "that will feed instability for years to come."
Even United States allies like the European Union, which supported tough pressure to disarm Iraq, gave no support for a unilateral American strike against Baghdad. It insisted that the issue be handled through the Security Council. 
Mr. Bush surrounded himself today with Democratic supporters of the Congressional war resolution, which he signed this morning. It authorizes him, at his sole discretion, to decide when diplomacy has failed and force is necessary. He repeated today that he had not made that decision -- but then described a series of conditions for Mr. Hussein that seemed to make military action all but inevitable.
For the first time, Mr. Bush painted a picture of what Iraq might look like after Mr. Hussein is no longer in power, promising to "help Iraqi citizens find the blessings of liberty within their own culture and their own traditions." But he made no specific mention of the Administration's plans to occupy Iraq for a period of months or years before the country can hold free elections.
He argued that time was wasting, and his press secretary, Ari Fleischer, said later the president was only willing to wait a few more weeks for the United Nations to end its deliberations. 
"Our goal is to fully and finally remove a real threat to world peace and to America," Mr. Bush said. Asked later whether Mr. Bush was talking about removing Mr. Hussein's weapons or the leader himself, Mr. Fleischer said, "Both."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush signed a Congressional resolution yesterday authorizing the use of force against Iraq. After the signing, he greeted lawmakers with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Vice President Dick Cheney. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); VETO (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); TERRORISM (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DISARMAMENT (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); EXTORTION (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); GENOCIDE (73%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%) UNITED NATIONS 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); DICK CHENEY (58%) PRESTON, JULIA; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); ALDOURI, MOHAMMED (AMB); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); EUROPE (92%); TURKEY (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); EGYPT (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



507 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1626 words

HEADLINE: NORTH KOREA SAYS IT HAS A PROGRAM ON NUCLEAR ARMS 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
Confronted by new American intelligence, North Korea has admitted that it has been conducting a major clandestine nuclear-weapons development program for the past several years, the Bush administration said tonight. Officials added that North Korea had also informed them that it has now "nullified" its 1994 agreement with the United States to freeze all nuclear weapons development activity. 
 North Korea's surprise revelation, which confronts the Bush administration with a nuclear crisis in Asia even as it threatens war with Iraq, came 12 days ago in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital. A senior American diplomat, James A. Kelley, confronted his North Korean counterparts with American intelligence data suggesting a secret project was under way. At first, the North Korean officials angrily denied the allegation, according to an American official who was present. 
 The next day the North Koreans acknowledged the nuclear program and according to one American official said they, "have more powerful things as well." American officials have interpreted that comment as an acknowledgment that North Korea possesses other weapons of mass destruction. 
Administration officials refused to say tonight whether the North Koreans had acknowledged successfully producing a nuclear weapon from the project, which uses highly enriched uranium. Nor would administration officials who briefed reporters say whether they think North Korea has produced such a weapon. 
"We're not certain that it's been weaponized yet," said another official, noting that North Korea has conducted no nuclear testing, which the United States could easily detect.
The idea of a North Korean nuclear arsenal immediately alters the delicate nuclear balance in Asia and confronts the Bush administration with two simultaneous crises involving nations developing weapons of mass destruction: one in Iraq, the other on the Korean Peninsula. 
"We seek a peaceful resolution to this situation," a senior administration official said tonight, briefing reporters as news of the North Korean program began to leak. "No peaceful nation wants to see a nuclear-armed North Korea."
Yet the administration's demands on North Korea tonight were muted. "The United States is calling on North Korea to comply with all of its commitments under the Nonproliferation Treaty and to eliminate its nuclear weapons program in a verifiable manner," an American official said. There was no discussion of the consequences if that appeal was ignored, even though the announcement came only hours after President Bush issued some of his toughest and most ominous-sounding warnings yet to Iraq.
Mr. Bush said nothing about North Korea today. Instead, the State Department dealt with the issue tonight through a statement issued by Richard A. Boucher, the state department spokesman, and through briefings by midlevel officials. Mr. Boucher said Mr. Kelly and Under Secretary of State John R. Bolton had been dispatched "to confer with friends and allies about this important issue." He also said, "This is an opportunity for peace-loving nations in the region to deal, effectively, with this challenge."
At a meeting on Tuesday of the National Security Council, Mr. Bush and his aides decided to handle the North Korean declarations through diplomatic channels, a senior official said.
Japan and South Korea, which is now in the midst of a presidential election campaign, both wanted to avoid confrontation, according to several officials. 
But American officials said that there was no early indication that North Korea would admit inspectors or give up its program. One senior official characterized the North Korean attitude at the Pyongyang meeting as belligerent, rather than apologetic, even while it admitted violating the 1994 accord to freeze its nuclear weapons development.
The strongest action the administration announced tonight was the cessation of talks that could lead to economic cooperation. "The United States was prepared to offer economic and political steps to improve the lives of the North Korean people," Mr. Boucher's statement said, "provided the North were dramatically to alter its behavior across a range of issues," including its weapons programs, its past support for terrorism, and "the deplorable treatment of the North Korean people."
But in deciding on a very measured response, the White House was also implicitly recognizing the reality of how North Korea differs from Iraq. It may already have nuclear weapons, and it has a huge army and conventional weapons capable of wreaking havoc on South Korea.
Moreover, even the prospect of military action against North Korea, conducted at the same time the administration is considering an attack on Iraq, would mean that the Pentagon would be confronted by the prospect of fighting a two-front war.
Deeply impoverished, with its military might waning, North Korea has long sought nuclear capability. It pursued an aggressive nuclear weapons program in the 1980's and 1990's that resulted in a major confrontation with the Clinton administration in 1994. Officials who served at the time said they believed that the dispute nearly veered into war. At one point in 1994, President Bill Clinton ordered Stealth bombers and other forces into South Korea to deter a pre-emptive North Korean strike.
But a deal was struck, partly with the intervention of former President Jimmy Carter. The result was a 1994 agreement under which North Korea committed to halting its nuclear work, and the United States, Japan and South Korea, among others, agreed to provide the country with fuel oil and proliferation-resistant nuclear reactors to produce electric power.
While ground has been broken on the project, the reactors have yet to be delivered, and now that agreement appears dead, officials said tonight.
Around the time that the Clinton administration negotiated the 1994 accord, the Central Intelligence Agency estimated that North Korea's nuclear weapons facilities at Yongbyon, a program that was based on reprocessing nuclear waste into plutonium, had already produced enough material to manufacture one or two weapons. 
If the North Korean assertions are true -- and administration officials assume they are -- the government of Kim Jong Il began in the mid- or late-1990's a secret, parallel program to produce weapons-grade material from highly enriched uranium. That does not require nuclear reactors, but it is a slow process that the United States may have discovered through Korean efforts to acquire centrifuges. That is also the process that the administration believes the Iraqis are undertaking.
"We have to assume that they now have the capacity to build many more weapons, and they may have already," said a senior official who has seen the intelligence. 
It was unclear today why North Korea admitted to the weapons program. Only last month, Kim Jong Il admitted that North Korean agents had kidnapped Japanese decades earlier, and he apologized. Five of those kidnapped people returned to Japan for visits this week.
But one official who was in the room on Oct. 4 when the North Korean deputy foreign minister, Kang Sok Joo, described the existence of the nuclear program, said, "I would not describe them as apologetic." 
The administration's decision to keep news of the North Korean admission secret for the past 12 days while it fashioned a response appears significant for several reasons. Mr. Bush and his aides have clearly decided to avoid describing the situation as a crisis that requires a military response at a time when dealing with Iraq is the No. 1 priority.
"Imagine if Saddam had done this, that he had admitted -- or bluffed -- that he has the bomb or is about to have one," one senior official said. "But there's been a decision made that the system can take only so much at one time."
The response also has much to do with the vulnerability of America's allies. Every American administration that has considered military action against North Korea has come to the same conclusion: it is virtually impossible without risking a second Korean war and the destruction of Seoul in South Korea. North Korea maintains a vast arsenal of conventional weapons and hundreds of thousands of troops. 
But dealing with the problem diplomatically will be a tremendous challenge, at a time when the administration is already at odds with many of its closest allies over how to deal with Saddam Hussein.
American officials used the past dozen days to formulate a common response. At a news conference in South Korea on Thursday morning, local time, Lee Tae Sik, deputy minister for foreign affairs, urged North Korea to abide by a series of agreements it now clearly violates: the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, the 1994 agreement, and a "joint declaration" signed with South Korea to keep the Korean Peninsula nuclear-free.
"All the issues including the North's nuclear program should be resolved through peaceful methods and by dialogue," Mr. Lee said. 
Tonight, senior administration officials said that inside the White House, theories have sprouted about what North Korea hoped to gain from its declaration.
According to one theory, discussed widely in the Pentagon and the State Department, North Korea's leaders want to demonstrate that they cannot be bullied by the United States. "Here they are declaring they have the stuff to make a nuke," one official said. "Whether they have one, or they are bluffing, we don't know for sure. But the message is, 'Don't mess with us.' "
Another theory holds that North Korea is seeking attention, as it has done many times before, hoping to trade its nuclear capability for economic aid. That worked in 1994, according to this theory. But it could backfire now, in a post-Sept. 11 environment.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 18, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about North Korea's admission that it has a nuclear weapons programs misspelled the name of the American diplomat who went to North Korea this month to confront the government with American intelligence data. He is James A. Kelly, not Kelley. 

GRAPHIC: Map of North Korea highlighting Yongbyon: North Korea has nuclear weapons facilities at Yongbyon. (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (96%); MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); IRAQ WAR (70%); TERRORISM (67%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) SANGER, DAVID E; KELLEY, JAMES A; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); IRAQ (94%); ASIA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) NORTH KOREA; PYONGYANG (NORTH KOREA); IRAQ 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



508 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: For Ford and G.M., the Problems Ahead Have Different Sources 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Oct. 16 

 BODY:
While the stocks of General Motors and Ford Motor are falling almost in tandem, the risks seen in the two American automakers are divergent. For Ford, there is worry about its auto business; for G.M., there is worry about much besides its auto business.
 Today, Ford reported a $326 million loss for the third quarter and the long-term ratings of both Ford and its financial subsidiary, Ford Credit, were put on a credit watch with negative implications by Standard & Poor's. The bond market has taken a dim view of Ford's prospects and the action by the S.& P., a crucial rating agency, only served to drive the company's borrowing costs up further. Wall Street is concerned about the progress that Ford executives are making in cutting costs from bloated manufacturing operations while also bolstering a product lineup that has been losing market share. 
 S.& P. went a step further today with General Motors, downgrading its long-term credit rating, as well as that of its finance unit, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, to BBB from BBB+. G.M.'s share of the lucrative market for sport utility vehicles and pickups has been growing and its manufacturing operations are considered the most efficient of the Big Three. But its problems lie beyond its core business, principally in the soaring obligations required to finance its huge pension fund. There are also problems related to difficulties in selling its stake in Hughes Electronics and with its investment in the struggling Italian conglomerate Fiat.
"The primary reason for the downgrade is that poor pension investment portfolio returns have contributed to a huge increase in G.M.'s already large unfunded pension liability," an S.& P. credit analyst, Scott Sprinzen, said in a statement.
He said in a conference call that the fact G.M. was not downgraded further was "a real tribute to the remarkable progress G.M. has made in improving the competitive position of its North American business." 
Mr. Sprinzen added that "in the case of Ford, the real concern is the North American business" and whether the company's restructuring can offset pressure from its competition and economic conditions. 
Hanging over both Ford and G.M. is the fact that analysts are forecasting slight earnings in a year with strong sales, as well as fears that sales will slow next year. And there is also the unknown, like the effect of a possible war with Iraq and what it would do to oil prices and the sales of automobiles that guzzle gasoline, notably the S.U.V.'s and pickups that are mainstays of Ford and G.M. 
Both stocks, which had a reprieve on Tuesday after falling to 10-year lows last week, were punished again today. Ford fell 61 cents, or 6.9 percent, to $8.26. G.M. stock fell $2.56, or 7 percent, to $34.14. 
Today, Ford executives stressed strides the company had made in meeting and exceeding goals in the turnaround plan laid out in January. 
Its loss of $326 million, or 18 cents a share, was better than the $692 million loss a year earlier and was a result of a $525 million charge related to the sale of Kwik-Fit, a group of auto repair shops in Europe. Ford is selling operations unrelated to carmaking. 
Without one-time charges, Ford reported an operating profit of $220 million, or 12 cents a share, in contrast to an operating loss of $502 million a year earlier. The results beat analysts' expectations of 3 cents a share, according to Thomson First Call.
"It was a nice surprise against low expectations; we weren't expecting them to make much money," said John Casesa, an auto analyst at Merrill Lynch. He downgraded both Ford and G.M. to neutral from buy on Monday.
"Pricing is getting worse and it's hard for me to see how the industry works its way out of this," he added. "The headwinds all of the companies in this industry face are blowing harder."
Mr. Sprinzen said Ford's "progress and success is in a pretty narrow context," adding "they still are losing money in a very strong market in terms of volume."
Ford said today that it expected to earn 40 cents a share this year; the turnaround plan had a more modest goal of breaking even after the $5.5 billion loss last year. Cost-cutting helped trim the operating losses in North American automotive operations to $50 million this year from $849 million in the third quarter of 2001.
Operating losses for Ford's European automotive business increased to $121 million from $24 million, driven by struggles at the Jaguar unit and delays in its redesigned XJ sedan, which has an unusual all-aluminum body. Ford Credit earned $408 million on an operating basis, up from $389 million a year earlier.
Ford's overall share of the United States market declined to 21.3 percent at the end of the quarter from 22.1 percent a year ago. While pension issues are not the issue for Ford that they are for G.M., the company's deficit doubled to $6.5 billion from $3.2 billion in the quarter. 
Ford views the bond market as becoming increasingly expensive.
"There's clearly general skittishness out there in the bond market," said William Clay Ford Jr., the company's chairman and chief executive. "What can we do about it? Well, we can start by continuing to post performances like we are today, meet our targets. 
"We're in a tough environment now, a tough macro environment, a tough industry environment, and the spotlight has been on Ford for the last couple years and the world is saying 'show us.' Well, we've now shown it for three quarters, and we'll continue to show it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: William Clay Ford Jr., chairman of Ford Motor, said the world had been seeking good earnings from his company for several years. "We've now shown it for three quarters, and we'll continue to show it," he said. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BONDS (76%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); PENSION FUNDS (69%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (69%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) AUTOMOBILES; CREDIT; COMPANY REPORTS; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; STANDARD & POOR'S CORP; HUGHES ELECTRONICS; FIAT SPA 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY; FORD, WILLIAM CLAY JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); IRAQ (71%) ITALY

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



509 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Selling Furniture From the Hot Seat 

BYLINE:  By LIZ SEYMOUR 

DATELINE: HIGH POINT, N.C., Oct. 16 

 BODY:
There were bets that she wouldn't show up at all, at the country's most important furniture market. But Martha Stewart arrived here today, only slightly late because a private jet was delayed by rain in Westchester. 
 Expectations for her first line of furniture for the home -- a mammoth introduction of 200 pieces -- were shadowed by the news on Tuesday that her friend Samuel D. Waksal, founder of ImClone, pleaded guilty to six charges of securities fraud, perjury and obstruction of justice in the ImClone case -- a case in which she may be questioned or face charges. Bernhardt, the 113-year-old North Carolina company manufacturing Ms. Stewart's Signature furniture, had planned to introduce it with a party at a local horse farm, but opted for a showroom tea party this afternoon. 
 "They're the most gentlemanly, proper, decent furniture company in the business," Warren Schoulberg, editor in chief of HFN, a trade publication, said of Bernhardt. "It's ironic they're caught up in this. Are they spooked? They've got to be." 
With preliminary orders from three major retailers, things here looked brighter than might be expected for Ms. Stewart's furniture -- two groups inspired by her homes on Lily Pond Lane in East Hampton, N.Y., and in Seal Harbor, Me. The pieces were designed by an in-house team at Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, working with Bernhardt.
Ms. Stewart's furniture introduction was closely guarded, though she did fly here in August to greet the selected buyers, who were allowed to order only if they made a serious commitment to the entire collection. This is Berhardt's first foray into celebrity-licensed products, and the industry's first hard bump with a celebrity name hitting turbulence.
"I am a hard-working C.E.O. of a very successful company," Ms. Stewart said in a telephone interview before the tea party. "Celebrity comes from something else." Asked if the negative publicity would become a liability in selling the new line of furniture, she said, "It will sell if I'm alive or dead."
But Robert Bendetson, the owner of Cabot House, a 16-store chain based in Haverhill, Mass., expressed some concern over Bernhardt's ability to market the line. "The way I see it, the furniture is an asset and Martha Stewart is a liability," he said. "How does a retailer market it if the signature person can't make appearances?"
Ms. Stewart responded, "It's a lot of pieces that will appeal to everyone." 
While she would answer questions about the furniture (which will go on sale in April in specialty department stores like Carls Furniture, an 11-store chain based in Boca Raton, Fla.; Breuners in the San Francisco Bay Area; and in the New York region at Huffman Koos), her trip, the weather, the planned tea party, the choice of fabrics and the number of rooms of her furniture being shown (14), she would not answer any questions about the ImClone case, or Mr. Waksal.
The typical new furniture collection is 75 pieces, and the furniture industry's high-end manufacturers, like Bernhardt, have been hard hit by the economic downturn. "Furniture retail has not been strong," said Lee Buchanan, editor in chief of InFurniture, a trade publication. "There are a lot of concerns coming into market; the industry needs a good market this month." The introduction of the Oscar de la Renta collection, another high-visibility entrance, was postponed from April until now.
Bernhardt, however, seems confident as it faces unwelcome publicity about its association with Ms. Stewart. Alex Bernhardt, president of Bernhardt, said this morning: "We've had conversations with Armani, Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan, but we didn't feel that they carried much authority in home design. Martha Stewart is obviously an authoritative voice for the home."
When the deal with Ms. Stewart was struck in November, that authority had not yet been put into question by the stock market issues connected with ImClone, and shares of Martha Stewart Omnimedia were trading at $17 rather than under $7, where they closed today.
It is a huge risk for Bernhardt, the largest introduction in its history, and more than twice the size of Thomasville's Hemingway line, introduced in 1998. And though the furniture industry is competitive, few here want to see the Martha Stewart lines fail.
"It's not good for the industry," said Powell Slaughter, an editor at Furniture Today. "If the product is good, people buy it. If she gets led off in handcuffs, that's different."
Her line of Lily Pond furniture is light, contemporary and casual, combining typical "Martha" touches like painted pieces and milk glass with the unexpected, like cast aluminum Windsor chairs. The Skylands collection, based on the former Edsel Ford property she bought on the coast of Maine, is darker and more traditional. It will include darker finishes, deeper, rounder upholstery and slightly bulkier proportions.
Bernhardt is one of four licensees in the new Martha Stewart Signature collection; the others are P. Kaufman for fabric; Sherwin-Williams, which will carry 416 colors of her paint, and Shaw for floor coverings, which will include broadloom, area rugs and tile. All are designed to position the Martha Stewart brand a rung up from the $20 bedside water carafes and $35 faux bois doormats available on her Web site, www.marthastewartliving.com. 
Sharon Patrick, the chief operating officer of Martha Stewart Omnimedia, who accompanied Ms. Stewart here, called the furniture being presented "our midtier brand label" and "very affordable." The company had no reservations about readers and viewers following Ms. Stewart upward to furniture, including her Peconic Hutch, priced at more than $1,700. "Very few things are marked that high," Ms. Stewart said.
Ms. Patrick, also interviewed by phone, said, "We know our customers pretty well." 
Retailers are being required to market the furniture with the Martha Stewart Signature name, but that could change if Stewart were indicted and convicted. Fred Friedman, president of Carls in Boca Raton, committed a substantial part of his sales space in each of his stores to the line when he saw it in August. (In order to carry the Martha Stewart collection, retailers must commit to at least 2,000 square feet of display in a fully accessorized gallery and must guarantee a certain visual presentation.)
"When people first heard about the collection there was talk about whether the name would hurt," Mr. Friedman said. "Once they saw the collection they realized that it was a lifestyle look that people would accept with or without the Martha Stewart name." 
The place here where the two lines are displayed, a 6,000-square-foot 20-room display area hidden in one corner of the showroom, was by invitation only. Bernhardt expects to take no more than 300 dealers through the collection during the market, which will ends next week. The press has been excluded from the Martha Stewart section of the showroom until an invitation-only tea party with Ms. Stewart this afternoon.
Jerry Epperson, an industry analyst with Mann, Armistead and Epperson, investment bankers and advisers in Richmond, Va., said the line could succeed. "She's going to be the poster child of insider trading," he said. "But it doesn't affect her knowledge of the home. We're talking about a Bernhardt product, with her input, her taste level. I think that's going to have a lot of clout."

GRAPHIC: Photos: MARKET MAKER -- A painted hutch for $1,733, part of a 200-piece Martha Stewart furniture line introduced yesterday by Bernhardt. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. F1); UPMARKET -- From Martha Stewart's Signature collection, a ring-back chair with antique-cherry finish ($400), above, and an armchair ($800), right. (pg. F9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE MFG (90%); FURNITURE STORES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); INTERVIEWS (72%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); INSIDER TRADING (70%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (51%) FURNITURE; CANCER; INSIDER TRADING; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) 

COMPANY: MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BERNHARDT DESIGN; MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC; IMCLONE SYSTEMS INC 

TICKER: MSO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (90%) SEYMOUR, LIZ; STEWART, MARTHA; WAKSAL, SAMUEL D (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (86%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%) HIGH POINT (NC)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002 



510 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: DINER'S JOURNAL 

BYLINE:  By Eric Asimov 

 BODY:
With the recent opening of Aix, Didier Virot's Provencal restaurant at Broadway and 88th Street, and the arrival last year of Ouest, Tom Valenti's restaurant at Broadway and 84th Street, much talk has been heard about the pioneering discovery of the Upper West Side by the high end of the restaurant business.
 Almost forgotten are high-end restaurants that have been on the Upper West Side for years, like Restaurant 222, which opened in a West 79th Street town house a decade ago. While 222 may have had to battle the perception that its neighborhood was restaurant-starved, it bowed to no one in pricing. It was one of the first restaurants in New York to crash the $30 barrier for main courses. It actually left the barrier smoldering in the dust, with main courses upward of $40 and a Kobe beef dish for $180. 
 Times, as they say, have changed at 222. With the downturn in the economy, the restaurant lost much of its corporate clientele, the owner, Frank Valenza, said, forcing a modest reduction in prices and a revamping of the menu.
What was once a Continental restaurant has now become an Italian steakhouse. And while it is still possible to splurge on a $49 rib steak, it is also possible to have a three-course prix fixe dinner, including a small but well-flavored filet mignon, for $30. (For some reason, the prix fixe is cash only.)
These days, the once elegant oak-paneled dining room feels a little the worse for wear, and the dolls, music boxes and other tchotchkes strewn about convey a Victorian fustiness. At the frequent birthday celebrations (it's that kind of place), desserts arrive with sparklers blazing, unsettlingly showering sparks everywhere.
As for the food, it can be very good, though it can also feel dated. I might pass on the $24 appetizer of three colossal shrimp, which our waiter pushed hard one evening: "I've seen couples divorce over who gets the third shrimp," he asserted. The shrimp are tasty enough but come bathed in a syrupy sweet-and-sour sauce that may be better than any you've had at a Chinese restaurant, but is nonetheless sweet-and-sour sauce. Peppered carpaccio of tuna is a better bet. The dish is a cliche, yes, but the tuna is superb.
A prime sirloin steak is superb as well. The meat is so good that it doesn't need its topping of sauteed mushrooms. A small filet mignon, served Italian style, sliced on the bias, is exceedingly good as well, and a mere $25.
Restaurant 222, 222 West 79th Street, Manhattan, (212) 799-0400. Appetizers, $12 to $29; main courses, $22 to $49; prix fixe, $29.95.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sampling West Side haute cuisine (and prices) at Restaurant 222. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEEF (90%); MENU PRICES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (50%) RESTAURANTS; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: RESTAURANT 222 (NYC) 

PERSON: ASIMOV, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



511 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE ART 

BYLINE:  By Carol Vogel 

 BODY:
A Retrospective That's a First
 When a retrospective of the 19th-century French painter Theodore Chasseriau opens at the Metropolitan Museum of Art on Tuesday, it will include a three-quarter-length portrait of the Comtesse de La Tour-Maubourg, posed at the Palazzo Colonna in Rome in an elaborate ivory satin-and-lace dress that was the height of Paris fashion in 1841. 
 Chasseriau, a pupil of Ingres, was an influential painter in the first half of the 19th century, but today he is little known. "Theodore Chasseriau (1819-1856): The Unknown Romantic" will be the first retrospective of his work in the United States. And the portrait, not seen publicly since 1933, is the latest addition to the Met's collection. 
Its appearance ends a search by Gary Tinterow, curator of European paintings at the Met, and curators at the Louvre who organized the exhibition. "It was always an object of fascination because it was not accessible," Mr. Tinterow said. "During the seven years of working on the show, we tried to find it."
The curators knew it had been shown at the Paris Salon of 1841 and again in Paris in 1933 at a Chasseriau retrospective. They also heard that it had stayed in the sitter's family and was stashed away in a chateau in Brittany. Two years ago they discovered that the owner had died and that the portrait was part of an estate in the process of being settled. "Over time it became clear that the painting was for sale," Mr. Tinterow said.
Before the museum would think of acquiring it, however, several things had to be determined. The first was whether the French government would give it an export license. Fortunately, Baron Arthur Chasseriau, the artist's nephew, had given the Louvre the contents of his uncle's studio. Because the Louvre already had other paintings by the artist, Paris had its share of his work, so the government decided to let it leave the country.
Then there was the painting's condition. Mr. Tinterow said he had heard there were dark lines on it. An inspection showed that when the portrait had been lined, some glue had seeped through the canvas to the surface, a problem easily fixed by careful cleaning.
The heirs decided to sell the painting in June at Sotheby's in Paris, where it became the star lot. Jayne Wrightsman, a longtime Met trustee and one of its most generous donors, bought the painting for the museum for $1.1 million. "It's a highly important Romantic portrait in the style of Ingres," Mr. Tinterow said.
The exhibition is coming from the Grand Palais in Paris and the Musee des Beaux-Arts, Strasbourg, where it closed on Sept. 21. The portrait was not in either show.

A $50,000 Prize
The French artist Pierre Huyghe has won this year's Hugo Boss Prize. Mr. Huyghe is well known in the United States and Europe for his provocative video and installation pieces. Last year he represented France at the Venice Biennale, where he won an award for the three entrancing rooms he created about music, sound and light. His work has also been on view at Documenta 11 in Kassel, Germany; the Pompidou Center in Paris; Carnegie International in Pittsburgh; and P.S. 1 Center for Contemporary Art in Queens.
The $50,000 prize, established in 1996 by the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum and named for the German men's wear company that sponsors it, is given every two years to recognize significant achievement in contemporary art. The other finalists this year were Francis Alys, Olafur Eliasson, Hachiya Kazuhiko, Koo Jeong-a and Anri Sala.
"Pierre has spearheaded collaborations with his peers in other disciplines, which is relevant to what's happening today," said Nancy Spector, curator of contemporary art at the Guggenheim. "His work is often a commentary on memory, history, fact and fiction and the confusion between them."
The Guggenheim will have an exhibition of Mr. Huyghe's work early next year.

Another Forbes Sale
The publishing magnate Malcolm S. Forbes and his son Christopher put together a collection of Victorian paintings and other artworks over some 30 years. This week Christie's announced it would auction 361 works by leading artists of the era, including Edward Burne-Jones, William Holman Hunt, Arthur Hughes, Sir John Everett Millais, Sir Edwin Landseer, Lord Frederic Leighton and Dante Gabriel Rossetti in two days of sales at Christie's in London beginning Feb. 19.
The Forbes family has sold other portions of its vast collections at Christie's over the last nine years, including part of the Forbes Historical Manuscripts Collection for about $30 million in October and some Faberge works for $5 million in April.
Malcolm Forbes, who died in 1990, was a passionate collector of everything from antique toys to Faberge eggs. To dispel any rumors that the reason for the sales might have to do with the economy or the downturn in the magazine business, Christopher Forbes said in a written statement, "After three decades of expanding the collections that my father began, my siblings and I have decided to let others have a chance to enjoy them as much as we have."
When the collection was first being formed, the Forbeses decided that every painting they bought should have been exhibited at the Royal Academy in London during Queen Victoria's reign. Over the years, however, this guideline was abandoned with the addition of some artists who complemented the collection. Every aspect of Victorian painting will be represented in the sale.
The timing is good, said Martin Beisly, director of Victorian painting at Christie's in London. "Museums are at last digging out their Victorian pictures from their storerooms," he said. "Academically, they're being taken more seriously." Mr. Beisly was speaking of museum exhibitions over the last few years, including "Edward Burne-Jones: Victorian Artist-Dreamer" at the Met, the Birmingham Museums and Art Gallery in England and the Musee d'Orsay in Paris in 1998-99, and "Exposed: The Victorian Nude," which was at Tate Britain in London and is on view at the Brooklyn Museum of Art through Jan. 5.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Comtesse de La Tour-Maubourg, painted by Theodore Chasseriau. (Metropolitan Museum of Art) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PAINTING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ART DEALERS (88%); EXPORT CONTROLS (50%); EXPORT TRADE (50%) ART; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; AUCTIONS; COLLECTORS AND COLLECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (93%) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC); CHRISTIE'S 

PERSON: CHASSERIAU, THEODORE; HUYGHE, PIERRE; FORBES, MALCOLM (1919-90); FORBES, CHRISTOPHER; VOGEL, CAROL 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); ROME, ITALY (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (58%) FRANCE (93%); ITALY (91%); UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



512 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: DRIVING; 
In Suburbs, Old Wheels Keep On Turning

BYLINE:  By JIM MOTAVALLI 

 BODY:
KRISTEN JONES, 32, of Fairfield, Conn., who works for a direct marketing agency, hopes no one notices when she slinks around town in a rusty 1987 Chevy Celebrity, a hand-me-down from her grandmother. Despite having been driven only about 50,000 miles, the Celebrity is a hideous abstract art statement, blending two shades of gold paint (one liberally applied from a touch-up can) and edged by bright brown rust. Fabric from overhead has come unmoored and hangs in the driver's eyes. 
 "On the days when my husband has our real car and I'm forced to drive it, I sink low in the seat," Mrs. Jones said recently, speaking from her home. "I didn't think that cars mattered much until I drove one like this." Of the three Jones children, only the youngest, at 4, is willing to ride in the Celebrity. 
 The Jones family's Celebrity is a prime example of suburbia's guilty secret, the beaten-up car given space in the garage only to save the real family cars from the risks and rigors of commuting. 
Some of these cars get all the way to the workplace, but the Celebrity is a station car -- its primary purpose in the Jones family is to be driven back and forth to the Fairfield railroad station by Mrs. Jones's husband, Gordon, 48, who commutes by train to his job in Manhattan as an executive at the Wisdom Television network.
Given the chances of thefts, break-ins and stress-related fender benders in the station parking lot, Mr. Jones prefers to use an otherwise embarrassing car to get from home to train. 
Mr. Jones doesn't lock the aged Chevy. He doesn't even mind leaving it overnight at the station parking lot on days when he works late and stays in the city. "But when I pull the Celebrity into the station lot next to a guy in a 2001 Benz, I can feel him sizing me up," Mr. Jones said. " 'At least he dresses well,' he's thinking." 
One evening at the parking lot at the Metro North station in Westport, one of Connecticut's most exclusive commuter communities, peeling Peugeots, high-mileage Hondas, dented Dodges and Bondo-coated Buicks were sitting cheek-to-jowl with multiple Mercedes-Benzes, BMW's -- even a Maserati. 
Tom Zoubek, 38, who commutes to his job teaching in a private school in Stamford, Conn., certainly notices the flashy cars when he parks his 1994 Pontiac Grand Am SE at the Westport station. But he defends his unpretentious Pontiac as the perfect station car.
"It's small, easy to park and it gets good gas mileage," he said. "And it's a Pontiac Grand Am, so who cares if anybody dings your bumper?" 
His other car is an Audi.
Bill Alpert, 53, drives 25 miles from his home in Bridgeport to the University of Connecticut in Stamford, where he teaches economics. Three years ago he finally gave up the scabrous 1981 Toyota Corolla in which he had made the trip for 18 years. "I had enormous power at four-way stops," he said. "People knew I didn't care about protecting my paint job." 
The Corolla had 160,000 miles on its odometer. There were no working door locks because it had been broken into six times. "They didn't actually steal it because it had a four-speed transmission and they could only drive automatics," Mr. Alpert said. He drives a newer model car now but nostalgically remembers the old Corolla. "It was a beautiful car," he said. "It always started." 
It took a fair amount of humility for Richard Boon, 35, to drive his aging 1985 Dodge Aries (complete with fake wire wheels) to work at a DaimlerChrysler Canada assembly plant in Windsor, Ontario, before selling it a couple of weeks ago. At least it was in the Chrysler family.
"The car said two things," Mr. Boon said. "On one hand it let people know that I'm poor, and on the other it showed how smart I am by putting my money in the bank rather than dumping it all into a car." Despite its decrepit appearance, he said, the Aries was as reliable as a Swiss watch. 
That's not an unusual story. The paradox of the old-wreck commuter car is that the rust and dents usually hide the heart of a lion. 
"The kids tell me it smells," Mrs. Jones said of her family's Celebrity. "They refuse to be picked up in it after play dates. But it never gives us any trouble -- that's its most endearing quality." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: DENTS? VANDALS? NO PROBLEM -- Gordon Jones of Fairfield, Conn., drives a battered old hand-me-down Chevrolet to the train station. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); CHILDREN (74%); DIRECT MARKETING (73%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (70%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (70%); TRAINS (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%) AUTOMOBILES; SUBURBS; COMMUTING 

PERSON: MOTOVALLI, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



513 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 4; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW; 
A Poet Finds His Past Is Just Where He Left It

BYLINE:  By ELVIS MITCHELL 

 BODY:
"The Business of Fancydancing," the directorial debut of the novelist and screenwriter Sherman Alexie, is an often affecting, low-budget melodrama that is occasionally sabotaged by its economy of means: the image quality is sometimes so poor that it's like watching the pixel breakup on digital cable. But although the film is initially clumsy and a little hard to follow, Mr. Alexie takes his time in setting his characters in play, and the visual clunkiness becomes secondary to the eloquent emotional desolation.
 "Fancydancing," which opens today in Manhattan, is difficult material -- a drama about self-destructiveness -- and the novice director is sometimes tangled in the biggest trap inherent in such a project. Presenting such a motif means that almost everybody on screen sees himself as a victim and is prone to displays of sloppy articulation about self-loathing. This must be countered with a directorial toughness that Mr. Alexie, a critically acclaimed American Indian writer, has shown in his prose more than in "Smoke Signals," his first filmed script (directed by Chris Eyre), which was a show-offy exercise in suffering. 
 The film's narrative is told mostly from the perspective of Seymour Polatkin (Evan Adams), a gay writer and poet and a member of the Spokane tribe. It starts with a high school flashback of Seymour and his friends Aristotle (Gene Tagaban) and Mouse (Swil Kanim), an ill-fated violinist who never shirked telling the truth no matter how painful. When he dies, he leaves as much misery in his wake as he did while he was alive.
The difference between Mouse and Seymour is that Seymour throws the verbal acid back into his own face. He mocks his own shifting psychological identity, giving each of the fans at a book signing a different story about his background as he autographs his book for them. Mouse treated honesty as a weapon, and his duty was to subject whoever happened to be in his line of sight to coruscating rants.
Mouse's funeral takes Seymour back to the reservation, where he's forced to exhume his past, much of which still lives there. This includes Agnes (Michelle St. John), the half-Jewish, half-Spokane woman he briefly dated before realizing that he was "two-spirited" -- gay. She's involved with Aristotle, who has no trouble labeling Seymour a sell-out and a deserter of his people. This seems harsh yet reflects what Seymour thinks of himself. He has a particularly funny and bitter monologue -- "How to Write the Great American Indian Novel" -- that he uses on himself in which he observes: "Indians must see visions, and white people can have some visions if they are in love with Indians."
Mr. Alexie doesn't make Aristotle and Mouse one-dimensional poles between which Seymour exists. Aristotle has squandered his gifts and lies about complaining and drinking instead of doing anything with his life; he's bitter because he was afraid to leave the reservation. And his anger is made worse by Agnes's respect for Seymour, despite the damage he did to her.
The story is fragmented, like a poem, shards that can be assembled into a narrative. There are a few too many devices, like a television interviewer (Rebecca Carroll) whose primary function seems to be to give Seymour a chance to display his contradictory nature. And his white boyfriend, Steven (Kevin Phillip), is saddled with some unfortunate lines to broadcast his sympathy, like "They're not your tribe anymore. I'm your tribe."
But casting Mr. Adams was a thoughtful gambit by the director. The actor's vague boyishness suggests any number of ethnicities; his indistinct handsomeness is a physical manifestation of his own confusion about who he is. (Mr. Adams also appeared in "Smoke Signals.") The movie is as much about Seymour's need for spirituality as anything else, and his attempt to reject it is a denial of his own identity.
But the confessional aspect of the story is often pushed a little too hard; the characters are too eager to let us know exactly what's going on in their heads.
The director's dry sincerity leavens the sentiment of this quasi-autobiographical film, a tale about the burden of constantly being asked who you are and where you come from -- a question that artists of color constantly hear, either from others or themselves. Mr. Alexie is smart enough to know it's never satisfactorily answered.

THE BUSINESS OF FANCYDANCING

Written and directed by Sherman Alexie; director of photography, Holly Taylor; edited by Ms. Taylor; production designer, Jonathan Saturen; produced by Larry Estes and Scott Rosenfelt; released by FallsApart Productions. At the Cinema Village, 22 East 12th Street, Greenwich Village. Running time: 103 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Evan Adams (Seymour Polatkin), Michelle St. John (Agnes Roth), Gene Tagaban (Aristotle Joseph), Rebecca Carroll (Interviewer), Kevin Phillip (Steven) and Swil Kanim (Mouse).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Evan Adams, left, and Gene Tagaban in "Fancydancing." (Lance Muresan/FallsApart Productions) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); POETRY (90%); WRITERS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); FILM (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); CELEBRITIES (74%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); BOOKSTORES (62%) MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ELVIS; ALEXIE, SHERMAN; ADAMS, EVAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

TITLE: BUSINESS OF FANCYDANCING, THE (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



514 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Talks on Russian Entry Into W.T.O. Hit Snag 

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
Russia, whose economy is by far the largest outside the World Trade Organization, has hit an impasse in talks with major trading partners about joining the group.
 Trade officials from Russia, the United States and the European Union met in Moscow this week but failed to find common ground on a number of central issues, including Russia's low energy prices and its protection for its banks and telecommunications industry. The meetings were meant to prepare for multilateral talks next month at the organization's headquarters in Geneva on Russia's bid to join the group. 
 As recently as a few months ago, Russian officials were predicting that their country would join the 144-nation trade organization in the next year or two. They now say that negotiations are at a standstill because other nations refuse to compromise. 
"If we consider that the losses from joining outweigh the benefits, we will never join," said Russia's chief negotiator, Maxim Medvedkov, in a phone interview this evening. "Now, if we meet all the demands of our partners in full, it would mean a big loss for Russia."
European and American negotiators say Russia wants to retain too much protection for industries like financial services and insurance. In those fields, Russian law now limits foreign participation, on the ground that Russian firms are not yet strong enough to compete with major international rivals. 
Broadly, membership in the World Trade Organization would entitle Russian manufactured goods and certain other goods and services to favorable treatment in other member nations' markets, with standardized rules and low tariffs. In exchange, Russia would have to open its own market to other members' exports. For nations that mainly export manufactured products, like the United States and China, the benefits are obvious. For Russia, which mainly exports commodities like oil and gas, they are less so. 
"I am against rapid, reckless accession," said Konstantin Remchukov, chairman of the advisory board of Basic Element, a firm that controls Russia's second-largest carmaker. "The W.T.O. is an instrument to get finished goods into department stores abroad. But finished goods are only 9 percent of our exports."
At times this week, negotiators for the two sides seemed to be talking past each other. Mr. Medvedkov said tonight that Russia could still join the group as soon as 2003, but that it was up to the Western nations to make concessions.
"It will be possible only if our partners review their demands, and if those demands will be pragmatic," he said. "Now, they are simply outside of the framework within which we are willing to work."
At a press briefing today, a senior American trade official voiced a similarly categorical view. Asked what had actually been agreed upon this week, the official said, "There is agreement that Russia needs to change its trade regime."
Russia's low domestic energy prices are a central sticking point for European negotiators. The Russian state sets the prices, which are about one-sixth of the average level in Europe; the Europeans say that the pricing amounts to an unfair subsidy for Russian industry.
The Russian government has been gradually raising the prices of natural gas and electricity over the last decade. But its negotiators flatly refused to discuss the faster, larger increases the Europeans want, saying that abundant, cheap energy is no subsidy, just a competitive advantage. 
After all, Mr. Medvedkov said, other nations make the most of their natural advantages: "We aren't fighting the prices of oranges from Morocco or wine from Spain." 
Most of the former Soviet republics in Central Asia are waiting for Russia to join the organization before they do; Kazakhstan, another major energy exporter, is particularly anxious to open accession talks.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maxim Medvedkov, Russia's chief negotiator, said the gains of membership must outweigh the losses. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); RETAILERS (64%); AUTOMAKERS (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); BANKS AND BANKING; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: TAVERNISE, SABRINA; MEDVEDKOV, MAXIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%) EUROPE; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



515 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 92 words

HEADLINE: Ignoring Brazil's Critics 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 As a Brazilian, I read "Wall Street and Brazil Are Far Apart on Outlook" (Business Day, Oct. 12) with relief. 
Remember, these doomsayers about Brazil, who doubt that it has the ability to overcome its financial crisis, are Wall Street analysts. They are the ones who didn't (or chose not to) see the bubble for what it was and steered worldwide markets into their recent plunge. 
 The likelihood that the analysts will get it right this time seems too small to make one overly nervous.

FREDERICO GUEIROS FILHO
Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); TRENDS (84%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) FINANCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: FILHO, FREDERICO GUEIROS 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (64%) BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (64%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



516 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Panel Is Set to Prescribe Japan's Economic Medicine 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
Japan is set to announce on Friday a series of measures aimed at supporting an economy that is likely to be hurt in the near term by the government's plan to speed up write-offs of bad loans by the nation's banks.
 With tax revenue falling and the national debt exploding, however, such measures may, at best, only prevent another recession instead of spurring growth, experts said. 
 Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's Council on Economic and Fiscal Policy favors tax cuts and other support worth no more than 5 trillion yen ($40.2 billion), or about 1 percent of gross domestic product. But the council has said that accelerating write-offs of the estimated $423 billion in bad loans will depress growth by an equal amount, 1 percent, as bankruptcies and unemployment rise. Worse, the government expects to raise social security taxes next year, a step that would wipe out most benefits of any tax cuts. 
Still, the government's report on Friday is expected to include calls for tax cuts of 2.5 trillion yen ($20.1 billion), mostly aimed at companies. It is also likely to recommend expanding low-cost loan programs for small businesses under pressure from their banks, and it is expected to propose broader unemployment benefits.
The council may also call on the Bank of Japan to loosen monetary policy further to counter the negative effects of the write-offs of bad loans.
The governor of the Bank of Japan, Masaru Hayami, who is a member of the economic council, said the group had not discussed the bank's monetary policy at today's meeting. The central bank's policy board will meet on Oct. 30.
While the government scrambles to find ways to bolster growth as the nine-month recovery loses steam, one of the few drivers of the economy -- exports -- is slowing. Shipments overseas have declined for three consecutive months on a seasonally adjusted basis as economic growth in the United States and Asia has slowed.
All of this, combined with continued weakness in capital spending and new-home starts, make it increasingly likely that Japan's economy will tip back into recession, analysts said.
"We are in for tough times," said Kazutaka Kirishima, an economist at the Sumitomo-Life Research Institute, adding: "The risk of a double-dip recession is high. The government's stimulus package will have little impact in this environment."
If the government carries through with its plan to push banks to write off their bad loans faster, the unemployment rate could easily spike to 7 percent from the current 5.4 percent, economists said.
Personal bankruptcies are also likely to rise. The number of people filing for bankruptcy was already on track to grow nearly 40 percent this year, according to The Nihon Keizai Shimbun, the leading Japanese business newspaper.
The government fears that its push to get the banks to write off their bad loans will lead to a credit squeeze in which even healthy companies have trouble getting money, as happened in 1998 and 1999. Most of the measures it is considering are aimed at helping businesses get the financing they need to keep employees working.
Mr. Koizumi's council said the government would create more jobs, but it offered few specifics.
The new chief financial regulator, Heizo Takenaka, said that his Financial Services Agency would be setting up a telephone hot line to field calls from small businesses that are having trouble obtaining loans from banks.
With interest rates still at rock bottom, the central bank has little left to offer, except uncollateralized loans to companies in need. And that throws the burden back on the government, which is wrestling with a national debt that is expected to grow by March to 693 trillion yen ($5.6 trillion), an amount equal to 140 percent of the gross domestic product. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); HOUSING STARTS (62%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (59%); NATIONAL DEBT (57%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; BANKS AND BANKING; CREDIT; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CORPORATIONS 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (54%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN; KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



517 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
EMC Makes a Small Profit, Thanks Solely to a Tax Benefit

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
EMC, the leading supplier of data storage systems for large corporations, said yesterday that it eked out a profit in the third quarter thanks to a one-time overseas tax benefit but that business conditions worsened as the quarter drew to an end.
 William Teuber, EMC's chief financial officer, said that despite stringent cost-cutting measures, including the recently announced layoffs of 1,350 employees, EMC did not expect sales to rebound strongly enough for the company to achieve break-even results before the second quarter of next year. 
 EMC said that it earned $21 million, or a penny a diluted share, in the quarter, in contrast to a loss of $945 million, or 43 cents a diluted share, a year earlier. Excluding the tax adjustment, EMC lost $51 million, or 2 cents a share, in the most recent quarter. 
EMC said revenue rose 4 percent, to $1.26 billion. That was the first year-to-year sales improvement since early last year. But revenue fell 9 percent from the second quarter. Joseph M. Tucci, the president and chief executive, said that major customers were cutting back on their already reduced budgets for information technology.
Such conditions once seemed inconceivable to EMC, which is based in Hopkinton, Mass. Two years ago, as it completed a decade of rapid growth, EMC expected revenue of close to $15 billion this year. EMC preached that the amount of data essential to business was exploding, so investments in storing it were likely to soar even if the economy weakened. But data storage proved just as vulnerable to recession as the rest of the technology industry, and EMC will do well to reach $5.5 billion in revenue for the year.
That reality has punished the stock price. After topping $102 two years ago, shares of EMC went into a long decline that took them as low as $3.83 early this month after it warned Wall Street about the earnings reported yesterday. With no significant new bad news in yesterday's report or the conference call that followed it, EMC's stock rose slightly in the morning before retreating to finish at $4.60, down 16 cents.
Analysts said the biggest question left unanswered by the report was the degree to which the disappointing quarter reflected general market conditions as opposed to increasing competition from I.B.M. and Hitachi, EMC's major rivals at the high end of the market where storage devices can cost $1 million or more. Both rivals have updated their flagship product lines more recently than EMC, said Rob Schaefer, who follows the sector for the META Group, a market research and consulting company. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: EMC CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EMC CORP 

TICKER: EMC (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (91%) SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES; 

PERSON: JOSEPH M TUCCI (59%) FEDER, BARNABY J; TEUBER, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



518 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Sun Reports Loss, Beats Estimates And Cuts Jobs

BYLINE:  By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
Struggling with an increasingly uncertain and bleak corporate economy, Sun Microsystems said yesterday that it would lay off 11 percent of its employees and reported a loss for its first quarter, but it still exceeded Wall Street's earnings expectations.
 Through 2001, Sun, a computer company, was one of the biggest beneficiaries of both the dot-com boom and the telecommunications and Internet industry expansions. Now the company is trying to navigate an increasingly challenging technology recession, as corporate capital spending declines and competitors offering the Windows and Linux operating systems on their computers challenge Sun. 
 Sun said that it planned to cut 4,400 employees at sites around the world, beginning in November. Sun now employs about 39,400 workers. 
The cuts were lower than financial analysts had speculated in recent days. Several Wall Street technology analysts said that the level suggested that Sun's chief executive, Scott McNealy, was having some success in managing the company through the recession.
Sun's revenue for the first quarter of its 2003 fiscal year was $2.75 billion, down 4 percent from $2.86 billion in the quarter a year earlier. The figure was slightly less than analysts had expected, and the company said that an end-of-the-quarter improvement it had hoped for had not materialized.
But the company's net loss for the first quarter was $111 million, or 4 cents a share, compared with a net loss of $180 million, or 6 cents a share, for the year-earlier period. Excluding several one-time financial charges and benefits -- including a $31 million loss on equity investments, a $24 million charge in connection with previous revamping charges and a $22 million tax benefit -- the net loss was $78 million, or 2 cents a share. The Wall Street consensus was a loss of 4 cents a share, according to Thomson First Call. Sun's stock closed at $2.99 in regular trading, up 19 cents, and rose after hours as high as $3.09.
The company said it was pushing hard to break even financially and suggested that if it saw some seasonal improvement in the economy, it might return to profitability in the second half of next year.
Sun's break-even point was once $4 billion, and the company has made continual cutbacks as the economy has deteriorated. Sun's chief financial officer, Steve McGowan, said the company would now break even around $3.2 billion, but he said that would be affected by Sun's margins.
The company said that it was continuing to generate cash despite its losses and that the amount of cash it had on hand had grown to $5.2 billion, against $1.5 billion in debt.
Sun said it had paid off $200 million in debt and bought back $500 million in stock during the quarter as a demonstration of its financial strength.
"They're a big company; they're not going away," said Steven Milunovich, a financial analyst at Merrill Lynch. He noted that corporations would increasingly need the technology that Sun was selling, but the challenge for the company would be to remain relevant to its customers.
Despite Sun's continued losses, its executives said that the company was holding its own in market share. Mr. McNealy said that third-party data showed that Sun had increased its share of the Unix market against the Hewlett-Packard Company, one of its closest competitors. Sales were down 7 percent for the quarter in the United States, flat in Europe and down 13 percent in Japan.
The company said one bright spot was the sales of its new Star Office software package, which had revenue of $5.8 million for the quarter. The company hopes to compete on cost against Microsoft's Windows and Office desktop suites, luring corporate customers who have tens of thousands of personal computers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Computer hardware is tested at a Sun Microsystems plant in Newark, Calif., one of many Sun sites around the world. The company said yesterday that it would lay off 4,400 of its 39,400 employees but did not say where. (Kim Kulish/Corbis SABA for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%) SIC7378 COMPUTER MAINTENANCE & REPAIR; SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



519 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft Reports Strong Revenue and Net Income Even Though the Economy Was Weak 

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
Microsoft reported a remarkably strong quarterly performance yesterday with both profits and revenue up sharply at a time when the economy is weak and technology spending is depressed.
 Microsoft did get an unusual increase in revenue in the quarter, largely from corporate customers rushing to sign up for a new licensing program before a July deadline. 
 But the company's first-quarter performance also showed that it was succeeding in its strategy to persuade personal computer makers and end users to buy the larger and more costly business version of its Windows operating system, and to move increasingly into the lucrative market for corporate computing.
In the corporate market, Microsoft sells not only software for desktop PC's but also the software for the big data-serving computers that power corporate networks. How Microsoft fares in the server market, analysts say, is crucial for its long-term growth and profitability. 
Microsoft is bringing the low-cost economics of the personal computer industry into the corporate market, often undercutting the offerings of Oracle, Sun Microsystems and I.B.M. So at a time when corporate technology buyers are trying to cut costs, Microsoft, analysts say, is benefiting and gaining ground on its rivals. 
"A down economy is good for Microsoft because it is the low-cost supplier," said David M. Smith, an analyst at Gartner Inc. "That accounts for a lot of Microsoft's strength in this environment."
In a conference call with analysts, Microsoft executives warned that there are uncertainties ahead. First, they warned that they did not expect the traditional year-end pickup in personal computer sales this year.
Next, Microsoft said earnings would probably be somewhat lower in the current quarter, in part because higher holiday sales of its new Xbox video game would trim profits. The company currently loses money on each console sold, betting it can make money later by selling its game software designed to run on its Xbox machines.
Executives admitted game machine sales were less than expected in the quarter ended in September, by nearly $100 million. But they reiterated their previous prediction that by the end of the year the total number of Xbox consoles sold since it was introduced last year would be 9 million to 11 million.
"This holiday season is a big test," said John G. Connors, Microsoft's chief financial officer.
Other challenges Mr. Connors enumerated included the rising popularity of GNU Linux, a variant of the Unix operating system, which is increasingly being used as an operating system on server computers. He also mentioned the "significant legal risk" from the possibility that a federal judge in Washington could place additional sanctions on Microsoft, in addition to those agreed to by the Bush administration in a settlement of the government's antitrust suit against the company.
Still, Microsoft's quarterly results mainly underlined just how much Microsoft has been able to sidestep the travails of much of the rest of the computer industry.
Revenue grew 26 percent in the quarter ended Sept. 30, to $7.75 billion. Operating profits increased 40 percent, to $4 billion. Microsoft's net income more than doubled to $2.7 billion, or 50 cents a share. But the jump in net income was magnified because the earlier quarter included a charge of $980 million to write off strategic investments in telecommunications and cable companies whose share prices had plummeted in 2001.
Both Microsoft's revenue and earnings results easily surpassed the estimates of Wall Street analysts. The Wall Street estimate of profits was 43 cents a share, and the revenue estimate was $7.13 billion.
In the last few days, however, some analysts had said an acceleration in corporations signing up for Microsoft's new subscription-based software pricing program before the July 31 deadline imposed by the company could lift quarterly revenue by hundreds of millions of dollars.
The rush of new licensing commitments also added substantially to Microsoft's so-called deferred revenue -- a balance sheet item that lets the company recognize revenue gradually over the course of a long-term license, typically two or three years. By the end of September, Microsoft's deferred revenue was $9.1 billion, up from $7.7 billion in the quarter ended in June.
"This truly was an exceptional quarter," Mr. Connors said.
Shares of Microsoft, which released its results after the close of trading, rose 36 cents, to $50.77. They jumped as high as $52.45 in after-hours trading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); NETWORK SERVERS (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); COMPUTER GAMES (86%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (86%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TOYS & GAMES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); JUDGES (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); GARTNER INC (67%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); IT (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (67%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (55%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



520 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Philip Morris Profit Rises; Foreign Sales Offset Lag in U.S. 

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
The Philip Morris Companies reported yesterday that third-quarter earnings increased, largely on the strength of sales in foreign markets. But domestic business continued to show signs of weakness as cigarette taxes rose sharply in more than a dozen states and the proliferation of cheaper brands hurt sales of higher-priced products like Marlboro.
 The company said it would stand by its projections of earnings-per-share growth of 3 to 5 percent for 2002, and predicted earnings would increase 8 to 10 percent in 2003. 
 Net income in the quarter rose to $4.36 billion, or $2.06 a share, an increase of 87 percent from income of $2.33 billion, or $1.06 a share, a year earlier. The latest results included a gain of about $1.7 billion from the sale of the Miller Brewing Company. 
Excluding that gain and other special items, Philip Morris posted earnings of $2.7 billion, or $1.26 a share, up just over 5 percent from $2.57 billion, or $1.16 a share, in the period a year earlier.
Revenue decreased 1.7 percent, to $19.9 billion, from $20.25 billion.
The results, which were in line with Wall Street expectations, were predictable; the company had revised its forecast in September.
"It's hard to characterize this as a positive report when the company is losing share at retail, and the premium-discount mix is slipping," said Robert T. Campagnino, a Prudential analyst. "The data points were certainly not positive; however, it's information that I don't think that the market didn't have already."
Philip Morris reported strong sales abroad, but for much of the third quarter its weak spot was domestic business. Operating income at Philip Morris USA declined 3.7 percent in the quarter, to $1.5 billion. Shipping volume fell 6 percent, to 49.4 billion units, from the third quarter of 2001.
The company's share of premium cigarette sales declined 0.1 percent. Its share of all cigarette sales, which had fallen to 49 percent of the market in July, rose slightly.
Since 1998, discount cigarette brands have made significant gains because major companies have raised prices to offset expenses related to their legal settlement with a number of states. In addition, increases in excise taxes on cigarettes in several states have helped generic brands siphon customers from Philip Morris.
In time, analysts said, smokers will probably return to more expensive brands. But for now, major tobacco companies are expected to continue to see a decline in sales.
"People are still smoking," said Bonnie Herzog, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney. "I don't think overall consumption has been that impacted. It's been a channel shift and a product shift. People are buying their cigarettes from different places, and they may be different types." 
To prop up sales, Philip Morris increased prices and spent heavily on promotions and discounts. Dinyar S. Devitre, the chief financial officer, said Philip Morris expected to spend more than $600 million on promotions in the fourth quarter.
"We always have to, sort of, almost experiment with this," Mr. Devitre said yesterday. "We will obviously take our foot slightly off the accelerator from time to time, and we just have to wait and see how Marlboro reacts." 
The company, which said its settlement payments would decrease next year, is hoping that a larger domestic sales force will help it compete with the discounters.
Outside the United States, its operating income rose 8 percent, to $1.6 billion, because of higher pricing, lower costs and favorable currency exchange rates. Volume increased 2.3 percent, to 187.8 billion units, because of robust sales in Europe.
Analysts said that although Philip Morris's domestic business had been a cause of concern, the company performed well in a difficult economy. The future, they suggested, is less certain.
David J. Adelman, a tobacco analyst at Morgan Stanley, said it was good that Philip Morris was starting to see some growth in its overall market share, "but they are spending to get it."
"The worst possible outcome," he said, "would be if they were spending aggressively and not getting any growth."
In trading ysterday, Philip Morris stock rose $1.70, to $40.30. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); SMOKING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); EXCISE TAX (77%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (50%) COMPANY REPORTS; SMOKING AND TOBACCO 

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (98%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); MILLER BREWING CO (69%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES 

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (98%); PMI (SWX) (92%); PM (PAR) (92%); PM (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (98%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (69%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: DAY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



521 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Georgia Wins Bidding War For a DaimlerChrysler Plant 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
The latest bidding war between Southern states for a new auto manufacturing plant was resolved today in Georgia's favor when DaimlerChrysler said it had chosen a site near Savannah over one near Charleston, S.C., to assemble two types of vans now made only in Germany.
 Construction of a $754 million assembly plant in Pooler, 12 miles west of Savannah, will start in July, "barring any unforeseen changes in the economy," said Joselyn Butler Baker, a spokeswoman for Gov. Roy Barnes, who announced an agreement in principle with the company this afternoon. 
 Gov. Jim Hodges of South Carolina had offered as much as $346 million in incentives to try to lure the DaimlerChrysler factory, which is to produce Sprinter and Vito passenger and cargo vans and employ about 3,300 people. Mr. Hodges, a Democrat, is in a close battle for re-election with former Representative Mark Sanford, who has attacked Mr. Hodges's economic-development record, and Mr. Hodges made no secret of his desire to win the new factory to improve his chances in November. But aides to Mr. Hodges said his refusal to have the state buy the land for the factory without a guarantee that the plant would be built was a deal breaker for DaimlerChrysler. Georgia already owns the Pooler property.
Charlie Way, South Carolina's commerce secretary, said DaimlerChrysler had informed him that it would make no final decision on whether to build a plant in the United States until July. But Ms. Baker, of the Georgia governor's office, said only a sharp economic downturn could stand in the way of the new factory.
In his announcement today, Governor Barnes, a Democrat who is also up for re-election next month, said state and local government incentives to DaimlerChrysler totaled $320 million, or $67,000 per job.
South Carolina officials, however, suggested that Georgia had actually offered more than South Carolina's $346 million in incentives. By comparison, South Carolina tax incentives to attract a B.M.W. plant added up to only $202 million, officials said.
The new plant will have a payroll of $155 million a year, or an average of $47,000 per worker, and would generate another 700 jobs once parts suppliers locate nearby, Governor Barnes said.
The factory would take up 2.3 million square feet on 1,560 acres near both the Savannah and Brunswick, Ga., seaports and the Savannah airport.
In recent years several Deep South states have lured foreign auto makers.
Mercedes and Honda have plants in Alabama, and Hyundai and Toyota have announced plans for plants there.
Nissan is opening a factory in Canton, Miss. Saturn and Nissan have plants in Tennessee, and B.M.W. employs thousands of South Carolinians between Greenville and Spartanburg.
Georgia already has two automotive plants, but until now it had failed to lure a foreign carmaker, and its existing factories are not exactly late models. One, a General Motors plant in Doraville, opened in 1947. The other, a Ford plant in Hapeville, opened in 1909. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HARBORS & PORTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%) AUTOMOBILES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG 

PERSON: MARK SANFORD (57%) HALBFINGER, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (91%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (90%); SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (79%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (78%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (98%); GEORGIA, USA (96%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (92%) SAVANNAH (GA); GEORGIA; SOUTH CAROLINA

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



522 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Housing Starts Jump 13.3%, Helping LiftThe Economy 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
With storms gathering elsewhere, the housing industry continues to shield the economy during its halting recovery.
 The number of houses that builders started working on jumped 13.3 percent last month, the biggest increase since 1995, the Census Bureau said yesterday, as low interest rates spurred developers to try to satisfy rising demand. The surge reversed a three-month streak of declining housing starts that had raised some concern about whether homebuilding would continue to add to overall economic activity. 
 Even as consumers have reduced their retail spending in recent weeks, they appear confident enough to continue making large purchases, analysts said. 
"If you have a job and want to buy a house, interest rates tell you this is the best time to buy," said Chad Dreier, chief executive of the Ryland Group, a homebuilding company, explaining the construction boom. "There's just more demand than there is supply out there."
But the recent rise in mortgage rates may temper some of that demand in the months ahead. At the same time, corporate executives still seem to lack the confidence of consumers and remain committed to cutting costs, according to other reports released yesterday.
Initial claims for jobless benefits rose to 411,000 last week, from 389,000 the previous week, according to the Labor Department's seasonally adjusted numbers. Industrial production fell slightly last month, its second straight decline, in a sign that manufacturers expect growth to remain weak in coming months.
Investors seemed to focus on the more positive economic news and indications of improving earnings, however, sending stock prices higher and bonds lower. The Standard & Poor 500-stock index rose 19.18, or more than 2 percent, to close at 879.20.
As strong as the housing market is, economists already see reasons to think that it will not remain one the economy's biggest growth engines in the coming year. Mortgage rates have jumped this week by the largest increase in almost a year, as investors have become less fearful recently of a double-dip recession. When investors are optimistic, interest rates tend to rise, pushing bond prices down.
The average annual interest rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage rose to 6.23 percent, from 6.02, over the last week, according to BankRate.com, a research company in North Palm Beach, Fla. On a $150,000 mortgage, the difference equals $20 a month.
"Housing is probably close to a peak," said James O'Sullivan, an economist at UBS Warburg. "Over the course of the next year, we'll have decent enough growth that interest rates will climb and housing will start to fade."
That certainly has not happened yet, however. In September, builders started construction on homes at an annual pace of 1.84 million, the highest level since 1986, the Census Bureau said. Construction increased the most in the Midwest and West.
While starts of single-family homes soared, multifamily house construction fell slightly, reflecting weakness in the rental market, analysts said. The economic slowdown has left some renters with less money to spend, and others have taken advantage of low interest rates to buy their own homes.
The decline of stocks over the last two years has also made real estate look like an increasingly attractive investment, causing some people to spend more money on homes than they might have in the past.
The strong overall market suggests that consumers will continue to spend heavily on many big-ticket items in the months ahead, when they furnish the houses now being built. About two-thirds of houses in the first stages of construction have already been sold, according to the National Association of Home Builders.
Over the summer, Americans slightly increased their spending on home remodeling, Harvard's Joint Center for Housing Studies said yesterday. Over the last 12 months, households have spent about $115 billion on remodeling.
If interest rates were to rise only modestly, homebuying could remain at a high level, since rates would still be lower than they had been for much of the recent past. "The interest rate thing is in our favor, even if it rises a little bit," said Mr. Dreier, the housing executive.
But a small increase in rates would be more likely to cause a sharp fall in the number of people refinancing their mortgages, that activity has reached record levels in recent weeks. By reducing monthly housing payments for millions of families and allowing many homeowners to move money from their homes to their bank accounts, refinancings have helped to offset the stock-market declines of the last three months and to keep consumer spending strong.
Executives continue to be far more frugal than consumers, however, as they have been throughout the last two years. 
"My biggest concern is the timing and strength of the economic recovery," said David J. O'Reilly, chief executive of ChevronTexaco. "This has been a slower year than most people expected."
Weak retail spending and the potential war in Iraq, which could lead to a spike in oil prices, have caused some companies to cut production.
The new report on jobless claims suggests that companies are doing little new hiring, although layoffs are not as common as they were a year ago. While new claims for unemployment insurance have fallen almost 13 percent since last October, the number of people receiving benefits has risen 8 percent, to 3.48 million, according to the Labor Department, which adjusts the number to account for normal seasonal variations.
The manufacturing sector looks especially weak. A survey of executives in the Philadelphia area showed that manufacturing activity there decreased more rapidly than it had in nearly a year, the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia said. 
After a mild rebound in the first half of this year, Mr. O'Sullivan, the UBS Warburg economist, said, "it's pretty clear that manufacturing has lost momentum."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In September, home construction grew at an annual pace of 1.84 million units. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C1) Chart: "Building to A Peak?"Home construction rose 13.3 percent in September, buoyed by strong growth for single-family homes. But long-term interest rates, after falling for more than two years, have risen lately, signaling that the housing market may be about to soften. HOUSING STARTS Graph tracks monthly seasonally adjusted annual rate of single-family and total starts, measured in millions, since 1999. INTEREST RATES Graph tracks daily rates with yield on 10-year Treasury note since 1999. (Source: Census Bureau via Haver Analytics; Federal Reserve)(pg. C1) Chart: "Housing Construction"New private housing started and permits authorized during the month, in millions, at seasonally adjusted annual rates. Sept. DataStarts: 1.843Permits: 1.727 Graph tracks starts and permits from April 2001 through September 2002. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. C5) Chart: "Jobless Claims"Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. Graph tracks initial jobless claims highlighting 4-week moving average since May. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5) Chart: "Capacity Utilization"Total output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted. Operating RatesSept.: 75.9%Aug.: 76.0July: 76.3 Graph tracks output from April 2001 through September 2002. (Source: Federal Reserve)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); CONSTRUCTION (92%); HOUSING STARTS (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); CENSUS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HOUSING STARTS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); LABOR; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; PRODUCTION 

COMPANY: UBS INVESTMENT BANK (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) CENSUS BUREAU; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); BANKRATE.COM; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: R CHAD DREIER (53%) LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%) ; PHILADELPHIA (PA)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



523 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: BALI; 
Nightclub Blasts Leave Carefree Crowd Less So

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: KUTA, Indonesia, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
If there is any place on earth where war and terror could be forgotten it should be this carefree seaside town where the only imperative is self-indulgence. 
 But since the terrorist attack last Saturday, the young travelers who gather here from around the world have begun to carry the weight of the world in their backpacks. 
 Intentionally or not, the terrorists who bombed two nightclubs packed with partygoers have sent a shock through a borderless, shifting but increasingly cohesive world of low-budget travelers that has taken form in recent decades. 
As much, perhaps, as the World Trade Center was a symbol of international commerce, the name of Kuta has resonated as a capital and a crossroads for people on the backpacker circuit. 
When disaster struck, these citizens of the world turned to one another on the Internet, their common home, where they often meet to share the latest news from Katmandu in Nepal or Khaosan Road in Thailand. 
"How can they do this to Bali?" lamented a person with the cybername Chowmaipohtang. "This is too much. Is nowhere safe?" 
In the days since then, the travelers' Web sites have taken on a tone of fear and anger, and shown a new appetite for political discourse. Bulletin boards created to share low-budget travel tips are heavy with surprisingly sophisticated analyses of world affairs. 
"Just wondering whether the bomb blast in Bali would affect the whole backpacking culture here in Southeast Asia in general and in Muslim countries like Malaysia, Brunei and Indonesia," wrote Intruder. "Would it get any worse if the Americans do decide to attack Iraq?" 
The concept of a backpacking culture has been emerging since the 1970's, when the pioneers of rough travel put places like Nepal on the map and invented what is now almost a uniform of sandals and loose cotton clothes. 
Low-budget travelers now have guidebooks to a worldwide network of guest houses and Internet cafes that has emerged to serve them. On their voyages of discovery they are accompanied by legions of their peers. As they follow a beaten track, way stations like Kuta offer a haven where they can share tales of their common experiences while they drink and dance and bunk together. 
This carefree culture, it seems, is already being affected.
Web sites now carry impassioned debates over the question of safety, particularly here in Bali. There is a shared sense that the world is a more dangerous place even for people who want to have nothing to do with it. 
"It can happen again anytime, anywhere," wrote Wimos. "Nobody expected Bali, nobody expected New York. Next target?" 
Some correspondents even have the temerity to suggest that it might be safer to stay home. 
These fears have met with fierce expressions of something that sounds like patriotism. If backpackers had a flag, they might all be flying it now. 
"I am a traveler and this unspeakable act of terrorism will not stop me from trekking around this crazy world," wrote Swayze. 
A man who introduced himself as Jason Gaspero, a surfer, sounded a bit like Patrick Henry as he said: "Let me tell you this, and I believe it from the bottom of my heart. Evil will lose. Freedom will win. Our sense of freedom and traveling spirit is too strong to be defeated." 
If a clincher was needed, NicB declared that if young travelers abandon their surfboards, temporary tattoos and banana pancakes, "The terrorists win." 
A number of people are making a more serious argument that backpackers have a moral duty to continue to support the economy that has evolved to serve them. 
That notion was attacked widely by people like PST, who said, "We are talking about going on VACATION here -- not support for countries under attack just because the people of that particular country are nice. How about a cheap vacation in Afghanistan? Bosnia? Get real." 
The economic argument cuts both ways, though. Now is the time to come, urge the less timid, when a rare visitor can be king of the waves and the beaches, and when rates at guest houses are expected to drop. 
A shameful notion, said Manydreams. "While 200 people lay dead, you are going to be in Bali having a 'damn good time.' Pathetic." 
But this is in fact a pattern among backpackers and surfers, said Bill Dalton, an authority on travel in Indonesia. "Veteran travelers know that if there are any upheavals or revolutions or civil wars or hurricanes -- like, if there's a coup in the Seychelles you drop everything and you go to the Seychelles," he said.
These veteran low-budget travelers are likely to be heading for Bali now, Mr. Dalton said. All the infrastructure of tourism remains in place, "only 30 percent cheaper." 
No one knows how deeply the world of the backpacker has been affected, but there are new, real concerns. 
"Something tells me inside that the bombing is just a precursor to the terror that may come," wrote Donluciano. "Not only in Bali, but worldwide. Iraq, Europe, Israel, you can expect some very wicked things to come." 
There was a quick reply, though, from Ptclouds: "A bit extreme?" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (76%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%) BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; TERRORISM 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (73%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) INDONESIA (94%); NEPAL (91%); MALAYSIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%); IRAQ (79%); THAILAND (75%) INDONESIA; BALI (INDONESIA)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



524 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE ECONOMY; 
Indonesian Finance Chief Warns Of Need for More Foreign Aid

BYLINE:  By WAYNE ARNOLD 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
Indonesia's finance minister warned today that the deadly bomb blast in Bali last weekend would force the government deeper into the red next year, raising the cost to the international community of keeping Indonesia afloat.
 Indonesia still relies on foreign aid to recover from the Asian financial crisis of 1997 and 1998. In addition to a $5 billion economic rescue package administered by the International Monetary Fund, it counts on billions of dollars a year in deficit financing from a group of international donors that includes the World Bank, the United States and Japan. 
 Indonesia had forecast a budget deficit next year equivalent to 1.3 percent of its gross domestic product, down from 2.5 percent this year, and had been expected to ask donors for $3 billion in new aid.
That number is now likely to be higher, said Finance Minister Boediono. Earlier this week, Finance Ministry officials acknowledged that the tragedy on Bali would force the government to miss its budget deficit target this year. Mr. Boediono's statements today suggested a more lasting effect. 
The monetary fund, the World Bank and other key donors postponed a meeting scheduled for this month until early next year in order to determine the impact of the attack. "We are working with the government to assess the real economic effects of the attack and to anticipate any additional needs arising from it," said Andrew Steer, World Bank country director for Indonesia.
The consensus among foreign investors, economists and executives, though, is that the attack will have a muted impact on Indonesia's economy. Tourism will suffer and foreign investment will be put off, but the shock value of the attack is low for the business community, which has witnessed five years of intermittent violence and threats in Indonesia, they said. "It's seen a number of these surprises, but they aren't by themselves going to cause people to leave," said Charlie Taylor, president director of McKinsey Indonesia. 
Indonesia's tourism industry represents as much as 5 percent of its economy, and Bali is its most important tourist gateway, accounting for 40 percent of all foreign arrivals last year, according to the Indonesian statistics bureau. The Consultative Group on Indonesia, representing Indonesia's biggest foreign donors, said it would hold an informal meeting in two weeks to discuss the possibility of emergency aid to Bali.
In a report issued on Wednesday, Desmond Supple, managing director of Barclays Capital in Singapore, noted that tourism's contribution to the economy has been declining, and that historical trends reveal that tourism will decline only so far in response to violence. During riots in Indonesia's cities in 1998, foreign arrivals fell by only about 11 percent.
A greater risk, according to Barclays, is a drop in foreign investment as companies recoil from Indonesia's political risks. Executives in Jakarta dispute this, however, saying that foreign inflows have already fallen so far that only the most intrepid investors remain interested in Indonesia, many of them oil and mining companies to whom terrorism is a familiar risk. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (95%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TRENDS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TERRORISM (73%); TOURISM (70%); BUDGET FORECASTS (70%); RIOTS (63%) FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CREDIT; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE; BOEDIONO (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%) INDONESIA (95%); SINGAPORE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%) INDONESIA; BALI (INDONESIA); JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



525 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Profit and Revenue Rise In Quarter for Microsoft
Microsoft reported a strong quarter with both profits and revenue up sharply at a time when the economy is weak and technology spending is depressed. Revenue grew 26 percent, to $7.75 billion. Operating profit increased 40 percent, to $4 billion, and net income more than doubled, to $2.7 billion, or 50 cents a share.
 Microsoft gained from customers rushing to sign up for a new licensing program, but its performance also showed that it was succeeding in persuading personal computer makers and users to buy the larger and more costly business version of Windows. Page C4. 

Sun Microsystems announced that it would lay off 4,400 employees, and it reported a loss of $111 million, or 4 cents a share, for the quarter. Revenue was $2.7 billion, down 4 percent. C3.

Foreign Sales Help Philip Morris
Earnings at Philip Morris increased in the third quarter, largely on the strength of sales in foreign markets. Net income rose to $4.36 billion, or $2.06 a share, compared with $2.33 billion, or $1.06 a share, in the period a year earlier. Revenue decreased 1.7 percent, to $19.9 billion, from $20.25 billion. C2.

Rules Proposed on Tax Shelters
The Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service are proposing rules to force high-income people and corporations to disclose their use of potentially abusive tax shelters. C2.

Auction Revenue Increases at EBay
EBay, the Internet auction site, said revenue from transactions increased 73 percent in the quarter, to nearly $264 million. C3.

Deal Near on Terrorism Insurance
Administration officials and lawmakers have reached a tentative agreement on legislation to provide up to $100 billion in support to the insurance industry for terrorist attacks. A11.

Delta Air Lines Plans More Layoffs
Delta Air Lines announced plans to cut 7,000 to 8,000 more jobs. In addition, Continental, Northwest and America West reported losses for the quarter; Southwest had a profit. C4.

Sales and Income Increase at Nokia
Nokia, the world's largest cellphone maker, reported third-quarter net income of $598.8 million, up from $182.6 million in the comparable quarter a year earlier. Sales for the period grew 2 percent, to $7.1 billion. Though its sales ticked up only slightly in the third quarter, Nokia managed to triple its net income from the period a year ago. Analysts said the results show how efficiently Nokia controls its costs and negotiates prices with suppliers. World Business, Section W.

First Boston May Face Complaint
Massachusetts regulators who have been investigating Credit Suisse First Boston and its research practices are expected to file an administrative complaint against the firm, according to someone close to the inquiry. C10.

EMC Reports $21 Million Profit
EMC, a supplier of data storage systems, reported a quarterly profit of $21 million because of a one-time overseas tax benefit. C3.

Cranberry Ads Take Health Angle
Cranberries are the latest fruit to order up a multimillion-dollar publicity campaign using health as a selling point. The Cranberry Marketing Committee has hired Publicis Dialog U.S. to promote the fruit. Advertising. C4.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,275.04 up 239.01Nasdaq composite -- 1,272.29 up 39.8710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.20% up 0.15The euro -- $0.9718 down 0.0100The dollar -- 124.87 yen up 0.41 Graphs: "TODAY" show balance of trade and consumer price index. Balance of TradeAugust figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -$35.5 billion Graph tracks figures from February to July. Consumer Price IndexSeptember figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.2% Graph tracks figures from March to August. Graph tracks the daily closing price of Philip Morris shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); AIRLINES (86%); INSURANCE (79%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); COMPUTER MAKERS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (70%); AUCTIONS (69%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (68%); TAX AUTHORITIES (65%); TERRORISM (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (61%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); EBAY INC (83%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); EBAY (NASDAQ) (83%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%); DAL (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (83%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (83%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



526 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Rate In City Hits 8-Month Low 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
New York City's unemployment rate dropped sharply in September, to 7.1 percent from 7.6 percent, its lowest level since January, the New York State Department of Labor announced today. 
 But economists were not ready to break out the party hats and confetti, even though the unemployment rate, which is adjusted for seasonal fluctuations, has fallen every month since June. 
 One reason for their hesitation is that the unemployment rate is based on a very small survey of households, and many economists consider it somewhat unreliable in the short term. 
More important, companies added only about 19,400 jobs in September, which is usually a strong month for hiring (over the last 10 years the private sector job count has risen by an average of 26,200). So after adjusting for seasonal factors, employment was basically flat, said Barbara Byrne Denham, chief economist for the newsletter The New York STAT. 
Despite the dire news on Wall Street (and from Wall Street firms), employment in the securities business dropped by only 300, Ms. Denham said, adding that the small size of the loss may well be a statistical fluke. The method economists use to adjust for seasonal factors assumes that Wall Street follows its traditional practice of hiring a lot of interns in the summer and laying them all off in the fall; that did not happen this year.
Employment in the securities business and financial services remains the driver of the city's economy, said Jason Bram, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. "Until we those those turn up -- or a lot of other things turn up, which would be nice, too -- it's pretty hard to get excited about a drop in the unemployment rate," he said.
But there were bright spots in the data released yesterday. Tourism-related jobs increased, especially at restaurants, and employment continued to rise in areas like health care, education and social services, said James P. Brown, who analyzes the New York City economy for the State Labor Department.
Local government employment fell sharply, which Mr. Brown attributed to seasonal layoffs of people who had worked at summer jobs.
Business services, a grab bag of industries from advertising to temporary-help agencies, is showing signs of firming after months of steep losses. "We're not going back to dancing-in-the-streets buoyancy," Mr. Brown said. "But baby steps first." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SEASONAL WORKERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); TRENDS (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (73%) LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HIRING AND PROMOTION; UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (85%)

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (NYS) 

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (85%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (85%)

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



527 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: Sears Earnings Will Be Hurt By Credit Unit 

BYLINE:  By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
Sears, Roebuck, midway through a crucial effort to attract more shoppers to its stores, said yesterday that its credit division had suffered unexpected losses from delinquent cardholders that would depress earnings for the rest of the year. 
 Sears said its earnings for the third quarter would be higher than last year but still 26 percent below the company's prediction made earlier this month. For the full year, earnings will total $4.86 a share, down from $5.15 forecast at the same time. 
 "There's no question that this is a setback," said Alan J. Lacy, the chairman and chief executive of Sears, calling the results "a difficult situation for all of us." 
Wall Street, surprised at the extent of the credit losses, pounded the stock, which posted one of its biggest one-day drops as it fell $10.80, or almost 32 percent, to close at $23.15. A long-planned analysts' meeting yesterday at the Sears headquarters in Hoffman Estates, Ill., where Sears had hoped to impress investors with its plans for Lands' End and other merchandise, turned into a grilling of senior management over the extent of the credit difficulties. 
"They could have done this a week and a half ago," fumed Marie Driscoll, a retail analyst for Argus Research in New York. "You start to question management's credibility."
Most of the credit trouble seems to be rooted in the Gold MasterCard program that Sears began offering two years ago. The company was betting that catering to more upscale customers with check-writing privileges and low-interest transfers of old debt to the new cards, would bring in profits to help sustain its stumbling retail stores. 
But instead, with the economy soured, Sears now finds itself caught in the worst of both worlds: its credit division, which accounts for 60 percent of earnings, will cost the company an additional $222 million in uncollectible charges for the third quarter alone, and its stores have yet to turn themselves around. 
At the meeting, Mr. Lacy said that the head of credit operations, Kevin Keleghan, who was dismissed over what Sears called a "credibility" problem earlier this month, had materially misled senior management about the the condition of the credit division. Mr. Lacy, who made a name for himself turning around the credit division in the late 1990's, said that the risk manager had been dismissed as well. He would not identify the executive, but the Nilson Report, which tracks the credit industry, identified him as K. R. Vishwanath.
Mr. Lacy told analysts that the company planned to tighten its requirements for MasterCard applications. According to the Nilson Report, the company expects to sign up 5.5 million new cardholders this year, 2 million of those from direct mail. Of the company's credit card receivables, 37 percent is from MasterCard and 63 percent is the Sears store credit card, a spokeswoman said. Although MasterCard represents fewer cardholders, experts said their balances were probably far higher than those of the Sears cardholders.
"We have some things that haven't gone as well as we would like them to," Mr. Lacy said in an interview. "We have done a lot to mitigate that already."
He added: "The average credit quality on our MasterCard portfolio is quite good, and much higher than our average proprietary card. Our growth in MasterCard is attracting better-quality customers."
Other leading consumer lenders, including Citigroup and J. P. Morgan Chase, reported strong growth last quarter, suggesting that Sears, whose credit cards are backed by its Sears National Bank subsidiary, has attracted a weaker pool of applicants than some of its competitors. Sears offered a 2.9 annual percentage rate for new cardholders, and included checks at the same rate if used by Jan. 15 of next year. It had issued 25.8 million MasterCards through the end of last year, and it is the second- biggest MasterCard issuer, behind Citigroup. Its profits from credit cards totaled $1.5 billion last year, according to the Nilson Report. 
Investors also punished other retailers with large credit card operations. Target Stores fell $1.32, to close at $29.51, and Kohl's declined $2.16, to close at $55.11, although both have more conservative credit policies than Sears. 
"Credit is a four-letter word in retail these days," said Emme P. Kozloff, a retail analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. 
While Sears executives blamed Mr. Keleghan for hiding information and insisted they would be able to increase profits from credit despite all the bad news, analysts were skeptical.
"Some of the strategy they laid out for growing the portfolio we found to be a bit unconvincing," said Roz Bryant, a retail analyst for Morningstar in Chicago. "They talked about leveraging the retail business and getting customers to sign up and spend more in the Sears stores." 
Sears already uses its credit program to promote big-ticket items in its stores, offering shoppers a "zero pay" deal in which they pay nothing for 12 months -- a move that one analyst, Howard K. Mason of Sanford C. Bernstein, said could distort delinquency rates. The company is also considered aggressive for its accounting of the money it is owed by cardholders; Sears is not governed by the same rules as banks, and moves those receivables into its corporate accounts. 
Mr. Lacy said comparisons to banks were "irrelevant," and added that the system gave Sears "tremendous financial flexibility."
With the stores still in a makeover period -- with renovations under way that are intended to make them more appealing to shoppers -- relying on them for credit growth may be difficult to pull off, Ms. Bryant said. "They are expecting to be able to woo a lot of their appliance customers over to Lands' End," she said, "but it is a little troubling to think of how they will do that."
Lands' End, which Sears acquired in a $1.9 billion deal in May, is featuring $138 cashmere sweaters and $88 parkas, she added, prices above what the typical Sears customer looks for. 
"The consumer doesn't necessarily know what to expect," said Michael Green, a retail expert with Cap Gemini Ernst & Young. "They are integrating the Lands' End acquisition, and that's got to create some distractions. Then they are introducing a line of apparel with a lower price point to compete with Target and Wal-Mart." The new lines are intended to draw shoppers who are not the typical Sears customer, who is 50-ish and less concerned about fashion than about value. 
Mr. Lacy said the economy was to blame for some of the delinquencies, while others were a result of the MasterCard program's hitting its second anniversary. For many credit card issuers, delinquency rates peak within 18 to 24 months, said Anita Boomstein, a lawyer specializing in credit programs. "After accounts have matured, you start to get a spike in charge-offs," she said, using the industry term for accounts that cannot be collected. 
At the same time, MasterCards may have been issued to consumers whose ability to pay may not have been as sound as Sears anticipated. Layoffs and cutbacks in various industries have increased the risk at the same time, Mr. Green said. 
"You have people hanging on by their fingernails, and it will continue to drift down until this economy really takes a hard turn," he said. "People who lost their jobs two or three months ago probably had some savings, but at some point they are going to stop paying their bills."
One sign of increased credit risk is a leap in the use of credit cards for cash advances, Ms. Boomstein said. "Most issuers watch that very carefully," she said. "And this stuff doesn't sneak up on you in two weeks. It should have been obvious to all of them." 
Mr. Lacy said that the credit business had cycles and that Sears would work them out. "We've got lots of risk techniques we can use to manage through this," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alan J. Lacy, Sears chairman. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C1); Sears is trying to get its regular customers to also shop at Lands' End, which sells clothing more expensive than the usual Sears fare. It bought Lands' End, which is primarily a catalog company, for $1.9 billion in May.(Bloomberg News)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CREDIT CARDS (78%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); RISK MANAGEMENT (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (63%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS 

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO; MASTERCARD INTERNATIONAL INC 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (90%) SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L; LACY, ALAN J 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



528 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-18

U.S. Says Pakistan Aided Korean Nuclear Bid
American intelligence officials have concluded that Pakistan, a vital ally since the terror attacks last year, was a major supplier of critical equipment for North Korea's newly revealed clandestine nuclear weapons development program. Pakistan denied the connection. A1

Warning From C.I.A. Chief
In an address to a Congressional panel, the director of central intelligence, George J. Tenet, issued his bluntest-ever warning about the likelihood of another terror attack inside the United States. The hearing was the last for a panel that produced a series of reports critical of the C.I.A. and F.B.I.'s handling of Sept. 11. A1

Pakistan to Pull Back Troops
Pakistani officials announced that they would begin withdrawing hundreds of thousands of troops massed on the border with India. The move, which follows India's similar announcement, brought an end to a standoff that could have spiraled into nuclear war. A5

China Frees Tibetan Nun
A Tibetan nun imprisoned nearly a decade by China for "counterrevolutionary" crimes was released, nine years ahead of schedule. Rights advocates have suggested that China's new attitude is at least partly prompted by its desire for better relations with the United States. A7

Indonesian Economy in Trouble
Indonesia's finance minister warned that the bomb blast in Bali would force the government deeper into debt next year. The country is still relying on foreign aid, and the disaster will raise the cost to the international community. A14

A fundamentalist Islamic preacher who has been linked to Al Qaeda and a string of terrorist attacks was ordered to appear for questioning by the Indonesian police. American officials say they believe he was involved in the bombing in Bali. A14

Rebels Sign Cease-Fire
Insurgents signed a truce to halt a monthlong rebellion in Ivory Coast. Mediators said the rebels would hold talks with the government in an effort to return stability. A15

NATIONAL A20-29

Vatican Isn't Fully Backing Plan for Abusive Priests
Roman Catholic officials said the Vatican is not fully backing some of the American bishops' stricter prescriptions for punishing sexually abusive priests, and has expressed deep concern that the bishops went too far in their abuse policy. A1

Arrest in 6 Baltimore Deaths
A 21-year-old Baltimore man was charged with six counts of first-degree murder and six counts of arson for setting fire to the home of Angela Dawson, a neighborhood woman who crusaded against drug dealers. A1

Boys' Conviction Overturned
A judge threw out the murder and arson convictions of Alex and Derek King, the teenage brothers who were convicted last month of bludgeoning their father to death as he slept. A1

Island Rejects Golf Course
In a move against suburban leisure and affluence the Martha's Vineyard Commission, which determines land use on the resort, rejected a proposed new 18-hole golf course. A20

Republican Criticizes Strategy
The Republican House leader in charge of his party's Congressional campaign committee said that the Republican gubernatorial candidate in California, Bill Simon Jr., was running the single-worst campaign in the country this year. A25

Bush Pushes Jeb's Campaign
President Bush traveled to a Florida Republican Party fund-raising event to try to lift the re-election prospects of his brother Jeb Bush. A24

$7 Million Spent to Unmask Spy
According to a new book about the case, the F.B.I. paid $7 million to a former K.G.B. officer for a secret file from Moscow that unmasked Robert Hanssen as a spy for Russia. A22

Schools Received Tainted Meat
Secretary of Agriculture Ann M. Veneman disclosed that a significant portion of the turkey recalled this week for possible listeria contamination had been sent to schools across the country. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

New Yorkers Give Pataki High Marks, Poll Shows
New Yorkers give Gov. George E. Pataki high marks overall, especially on his response to the World Trade Center attack and its aftermath, according to a New York Times poll. The poll also shows Mr. Pataki leading H. Carl McCall, his Democratic opponent, by 11 percentage points among likely voters. A1

Speed Caused Train Crash
The AirTrain that derailed late last month near Kennedy International Airport, killing its driver, ran off the tracks because it was traveling too fast on a downhill curve not designed to take trains at that speed, accident investigators have found. B1

New Shelters Stir Protests
The Bloomberg administration has quietly set up 18 new shelters for more than 1,200 families, some virtually overnight, usually by paying nonprofit social service providers $93 a night per room to place them in marginal hotels. In response, there have been protests from neighbors and their political leaders across the city. B1

Poet Defends Himself Again
Amiri Baraka, New Jersey's embattled poet laureate, who has been accused of anti-Semitism because his poetry suggests that Israelis knew about the attack on the World Trade Center in advance, once again defended himself, saying that not only did the Israelis know in advance, but so did President Bush. B3

WEEKEND E1-30; E31-44

SPORTS D1-7

OBITUARIES B9

Allen Walker Read
A playful prospector of the American tongue who hunted down the source of words like Dixie and Podunk, phrases like the almighty dollar and, most famous of all, those ubiquitous initials, O.K., he was 96. B9

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Enron Trader Pleads Guilty
A former trader at Enron has pleaded guilty to engaging in a conspiracy that illegally manipulated the power market during California's energy crisis and generated millions of dollars in excess profits. C1

Big Surge in Housing Starts
As storms gather elsewhere, the housing industry is giving shelter to the economy during a halting recovery. Construction of new houses jumped 13.3 percent last month, the biggest increase since 1995. C1

Stocks Rise While Bonds Slide
Stocks rose more than 2 percent as bond prices continued to drop. In the last six days, longer-term interest rates are up nearly two-thirds of a percentage point, which could indicate a decline in investor fear. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

ESCAPES F1-16

EDITORIAL A30-31

Editorials: North Korea's nuclear secret; keep drug makers honest; protecting Navajos at work; in memory of an ancient library.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E40
TV Listings E29
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); ARSON (89%); RELIGION (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (87%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); AL-QAEDA (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); FUNDAMENTALISM (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); HOMICIDE (71%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (60%); MURDER (52%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: XIZANG, CHINA (72%) UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDONESIA (93%); TIBET (92%); INDIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



529 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Stocks Climb as Investor Gloom Appears to Ease

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Stocks rose more than 2 percent yesterday while bond prices continued their slide, indicating that investors may be losing some of their gloom over the economy. In the last six trading days, longer-term interest rates have risen nearly two-thirds of a percentage point, while the Dow Jones industrial average has climbed 13.6 percent.
 The interest rate rise has pushed mortgage rates higher and if it persists would slow the refinancing and housing boom that has helped the economic recovery bump along. 
 But over all the rise in Treasury yields could be positive to the extent it reflects a decline in the economic and geopolitical fears that had gripped investors.
"In this climate, it is a sign that some of the excessive fear has unwound," said Robert V. DiClemente, chief United States economist at Salomon Smith Barney. 
James E. Glassman, senior United States economist at J. P. Morgan, echoed that view. "If rates are going up because it looks like the economy is doing better," he said, "that's great."
The slide in bonds yesterday came as stocks bounced back from Wednesday's sell-off. The Dow rose 3.2 percent, to close at 8,275.04; the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 2.2 percent; and the Nasdaq composite index finished up 3.2 percent. Positive earnings reports from I.B.M. and Eastman Kodak and a government report showing a 13.3 percent surge in housing starts in September helped stocks rise yesterday after a bunch of negative earnings reports pushed equities lower Wednesday.
But only the Dow managed to reclaim all of Wednesday's losses and then some, winding up almost 20 points above Tuesday's close.
After the stock market closed Microsoft raised its earnings and sales forecast for the year ending June 30, sending its stock up 3 percent in after-hours trading and, possibly, laying the groundwork for another stock rally today.
Still, the market could continue to be volatile because investors are uncertain about the outlook. This makes it easy for a positive earnings report to push the market higher one day even as a negative one can drag it lower the next. Lingering doubts about the strength of the recovery mean a surprising economic report can kill a rally or start a new one. And big developments on Iraq and terrorism will always be market movers.
Whether this high volatility -- in which the S.& P. 500-stock index has risen or fallen by 2 percent or more on 9 of the 13 trading days this month -- is a signal that the stock market has finally hit bottom and started to turn up remains unclear.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange index of volatility hit its most recent high on Oct. 9, the day before stocks began their rally. Now that index is falling again. But this same volatility indicator hit a high on July 23, the day before the stock market turned around the last time. The Dow than rallied to 9,053.64 before plunging again.
In the bond market the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note was at 4.20 percent in late trading yesterday, up from 4.05 percent Wednesday and a 44-year low of 3.57 percent on Oct. 9. The price, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 1 8/32, to 101 12/32.
The yield on the Treasury's two-year note was at 2.15 percent, up from 2.01 percent Wednesday and 1.67 percent on Oct. 9.
The surge in the yield on the 10-year note is the fastest six-day increase since November of last year and the fourth fastest since 1986.
Mortgage rates, which are influenced by the 10-year note, have also risen. The average national rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage was 6.15 percent this week, up from 5.98 percent last week, according to Freddie Mac, the mortgage lender.
But Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist for High Frequency Economics, is not worried. "Even at this level you can easily say that mortgage rates are stimulative," he said. "In order to dampen down mortgage activity, mortgage rates have to go above 7 percent."
A sell-off in bonds is common when stocks rally. But this sell-off also indicated that some investors had decided that the strength in the bond market had gone too far, with bonds priced as if investors were expecting more weak earnings, slower economic growth, perhaps even a double-dip recession, and the near-certainty of a war with Iraq that would push oil prices higher.
"The Treasury market has been the lightning rod for everything bad and had taken yields to lows that made no sense unless the world falls apart," Mr. DiClemente said. "So when you get a whiff of normalcy, it unwinds."
One sign of the change in attitude is that on Wednesday, when the stock market fell sharply, bond prices also fell, pushing yields higher. This selling of bonds while stocks were falling broke the recent pattern of bond prices going up when stocks decline sharply.
Another indication of the changing investor mood in the bond market is that expectations for another rate cut by the Federal Reserve are fading. On Sept. 30, the yield on the November futures contract on the federal funds rate, which is the central bank's benchmark interest rate, showed that investors thought there was a 96 percent chance of a quarter-point rate cut in November. Those odds have plunged to 18 percent. The odds of a quarter-point rate cut in December are now down to 44 percent; there had been a 65 percent chance of a half-point rate cut on Sept. 30.
"What some people seem to understand," Mr. Glassman said, "is that if the stock market is doing better it will be positive for the economy."
The spreads, or difference, between the yield on corporate bonds and Treasury securities have also narrowed in the last few days, another sign of reduced investor tension.
In the stock market, the Dow rose 239.01 points, to 8,275.04. The S.& P. 500 climbed 19.18 points, to 879.20, finishing 2 points below Tuesday's close. The Nasdaq rose 39.87 points, to 1,272.29, which was 10 points from Tuesday's close.
I.B.M. said after the close of trading Wednesday that it had profits from continuing operations of 99 cents a share, beating Wall Street estimates by 3 cents and offsetting some of the negative news from Intel's earnings report late Tuesday. I.B.M.'s stock jumped $7.30, or 11.3 percent, to $72.20 and was the biggest contributor to yesterday's rally in the Dow. Intel, after plunging 18 percent Wednesday, climbed 69 cents, or 5.1 percent, to $14.23.
Kodak contributed to the upbeat mood on Wall Street when it disclosed yesterday that it expected its third-quarter earnings to be $1.04 a share on an operating basis, well above Wall Street estimates of 73 cents. But Kodak said that it expected sales in the fourth quarter to be flat and that profits would falter at 60 cents to 70 cents a share. The Wall Street consensus estimate is 66 cents a share. Kodak jumped $2.09, or 6.9 percent, to $32.44.
Among the negative earnings reports yesterday, Sears, Robuck lowered its 2002 forecast 5.6 percent, to $4.86 a share from $5.15, and set aside $222 million for uncollectible loans to its credit card users. The revision of 2002 earnings came just 10 days after the higher number was reaffirmed. Sears plunged $10.80, or 31.8 percent, to $23.15.
And that leaves a puzzle still to be solved. The news from Sears and weak sales at other retailers like Wal-Mart Stores should keep investors wondering if consumer spending is slowing down. If so, that would put a big drag on the economy and future corporate earnings.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C5) Chart: "Tax-Exempt Yields"Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly. Graph tracks yields since June. (Source: The Bond Buyer)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); HOUSING STARTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); SALES PROJECTIONS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); TERRORISM (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: CBOE HOLDINGS INC (60%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: CBOE (NASDAQ) (60%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (60%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



530 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: A Vestige of King Cotton Fades Out in Mississippi 

BYLINE:  By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: PORT GIBSON, Miss., Oct. 13 

 BODY:
The Port Gibson Oil Mill died in June. The steam whistle that once summoned all 50 workers at 7 every morning -- and woke everyone else in town -- is silent. The day-and-night din of machines crushing cottonseeds is gone, and with it the comforting odor of the seeds cooking. The big tractor trailers have all moved on.
 The mill ran for 120 years, which townspeople say is longer than any other cotton-oil mill anywhere. It was the town's biggest private employer, its biggest taxpayer and the last vestige of an industry that once made Port Gibson one of the richest little towns in America. Shutting it down, said Emma Crisler, editor and publisher of the weekly Port Gibson Reveille, "is like losing a piece of your soul." 
 The Archer Daniels Midland Company of Decatur, Ill., the agribusiness behemoth and the mill's owner for the past 11 years, closed it with two weeks' notice, then filed a request to demolish it. "There was overcapacity in the industry," said Larry Cunningham, senior vice president at Archer Daniels. "The Port Gibson facility was less efficient, smaller and older than other facilities. Market conditions dictated survival of the fittest, which unfortunately did not include Port Gibson." 
This town of 1,840 between Natchez and Vicksburg, eight miles east of the Mississippi, is fighting back. It has thwarted the demolition, at least for now, and local business owners are searching for someone to revive the mill. Failing that, civic leaders would use it for some other purpose, like a museum. "We want A.D.M. to donate it to the city," Mayor Amelda J. Arnold said. "But A.D.M. wants a piece of change."
Port Gibson is 80 percent black, and poor. Twenty percent of the families have incomes less than $10,000 a year, the 2000 Census found. About 10 percent of the work force is unemployed. It has an entrenched population of whites, many of whom are related and have some historical connection to cotton.
"My husband's family and mine have not moved more than 50 miles since 1763, when the British first acquired the area," Martha Lum, a widow, said. Her forebears were early investors in the mill, and for many years her father was president of the board. She fought the sale of the mill to Archer Daniels and lost.
An assemblage of immense sheds and tanks sheathed in gray metal on 10 acres behind a chain-link fence, the mill is just a five-minute walk from the Claiborne County courthouse. By all accounts, it was a good neighbor. There is no record of complaints about the trucks or the odor. It paid most workers $8 to $9 an hour, a good wage here. With new investment in plant and machinery, said C. Y. Katzenmier, 93, for many years the general manager, "they almost doubled the capacity."
But cottonseed oil has become a troublesome commodity. Once the only widely used vegetable oil, it has lost ground to soybean and corn oils. The supply of cottonseeds has declined as dairies have begun feeding the seed to cows. "Cotton oil production has declined 30 or 40 percent in the last 12 years," said Ben Morgan, executive vice president of the National Cottonseed Products Association in Memphis.
No one here has tallied up the toll of the closing. The city is losing $10,000 in local taxes, a sizeable chunk of its budget. It has also lost its biggest water and gas customer. Local plumbers, electricians and machine repairmen have lost their best customer. Only one employee, Jerry Messer, 48, a former shift foreman who started at the mill in 1979, remains. He keeps it secure and cuts the grass. 
"I'm the last man standing between me and those pigeons," Mr. Messer said. "Before, this mill never shut down unless we ran out of seeds. It was a good place. They never laid anybody off that didn't want to be laid off." 
Some other former workers have found lower paying jobs; some have found nothing. Percy McGloster, 52, worked in the ancient seed-crushing building. "Ain't no jobs around here," he said. Like other workers, he received severance of a week's wages for every year worked up to 21 years, and two months' health insurance. 
Mr. McGloster's wife Derdira, 39, is a cashier at the M & M grocery store in town. They have a daughter, Brittany, 11. Mr. McGloster had a two-minute walk to the mill from the 16-by-80-foot mobile home that the McGlosters bought in March. They could soon lose it because of the payments.
"I started working there when I was 19," Mr. McGloster said. "My daddy worked there. He worked there for 50 years. He loved that oil mill. He used to love to hear that old whistle blow." 
At work one day in late May, Mr. McGloster said, "They said, 'You all get yourselves together' in the clapboard office. 'We're going to close it down,' they said. They said the mill wasn't putting out enough production. It didn't make sense. We were putting out good production. We were booming."
"It was a hurting thing to walk in there and tell my wife I didn't have a job any more," Mr. McGloster said. "You know a husband, he always got to be strong. Even when you're hurting, you got to act like things aren't hurting." 
Some people attribute the plant's demise to a bitterly fought decision among the heirs of early investors to sell it in 1991. The mill's last general manager, James Beesley, 80, acquired close to a third of the stock and negotiated the sale. One group of heirs, including Mrs. Lum, delayed the sale while less partial investors reviewed it.
In the end, said Robert D. Gage IV, chief executive of the River Hills Bank in Port Gibson, "We felt it was in the best interests of the shareholders to sell, but to negotiate a better price." Most went along, and Archer Daniels accepted a price of $430 a share, or about $4 million. 
"A.D.M. committed to operate it for the foreseeable future," Mr. Beesley said. "They operated it for 10 years. I guess you can say that's more than the foreseeable future."
There is still some hope for the mill. It lies within the city's historic district, so the company needs the approval of the Port Gibson Historic Preservation Commission to alter its buildings. On July 26, Archer Daniels filed its request to demolish the mill. On Aug. 6, a company official met with local officials. " 'If we tear everything down,' they said, 'we will give you the whistle,' " said Joan Beesley, president of the commission and Mr. Beesley's wife.
"But that's not the way the process works," said Alton C. Hollingsworth, who manages an organization that is restoring the downtown. "With demolition, you have to see if there are other uses first." So Archer Daniels proposed selling the mill to the city for $750,000 and claiming a charitable contribution of $3 million. 
"The city doesn't have $750,000," Mrs. Beesley said. Mayor Arnold said,"In my opinion, they should give it all to the city and have a bigger tax write-off." 
Mr. Gage and other business leaders, meanwhile, have found two oil mill operators in Mississippi who have shown interest in reviving the mill. "I've tried to contact A.D.M.," he said, "but they will not return my phone calls."
The company, Mayor Arnold said, "doesn't want the competition."
Mr. Cunningham of Archer Daniels said, "We're open to ideas and suggestions."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jerry Messer, 48, a former shift foreman who started working at the cottonseed mill in Port Gibson, Miss., in 1979, is the last employee remaining. He keeps the buildings secure and cuts the grass. (Greg Campbell for The New York Times) Map of Mississippi highlighting Port Gibson: Once-prosperous Port Gibson lost its biggest private employer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAIN & OILSEED PROCESSING (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); OILS & FATS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CENSUS (65%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%) COTTON; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; LABOR; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; DEMOLITION; OILS AND FATS 

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (93%)

ORGANIZATION: ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND CO 

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (93%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (93%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (93%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (93%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (93%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (93%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (93%)

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) PORT GIBSON (MISS)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



531 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Senate Follows House on the Road Out of Washington and Plans to Return on Nov. 12 

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE and DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
Congress called it quits today, as both parties gambled that they would be in a stronger legislative position next month after the elections that will determine control of the House and Senate.
 Lawmakers, who had joined together after the Sept. 11 attacks, recessed to campaign after the drive to create a new agency to combat terror threats died in recriminations over the motives of each side. 
 Unable to make progress on the domestic security initiative, the Senate threw in the towel on the measure, as well as most other pending business, joining House members who left town on Wednesday night after agreeing to finance federal agencies through Nov. 22 and return in mid-November. 
Both sides quickly seized on the stalemate as a campaign issue. Republicans said the Democrat-controlled Senate had failed to deliver. 
"Shame on the Senate," Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma, the second-ranking Republican, said as he stood in front of sign attributing the unfinished business to the Democrats. "This kind of leadership is unacceptable, particularly when you put the nation's security at risk."
Democrats said Republicans had failed to give enough attention to a faltering economy.
"The Republican House left town on a one-way ticket to the campaign trail without addressing people's most pressing economic problems, which are happening in their lives every day," said Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader.
Others said voters would be correct to wonder about the relevance of a Congress that left so much undone. 
"The American people have a right to ask some tough questions about who is doing what and who is objecting to what," said Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota. 
The drive to create a Homeland Security Department is now over, at least until after Nov. 5 and, perhaps, until next year. Democrats and Republicans refused to budge on workers' rights. 
That bill was just one of a raft of domestic initiatives left hanging.
Senators said they would continue to work on outstanding issues. But for all intents and purposes, the session was suspended until a postelection return, scheduled for Nov. 12. House officials said it was doubtful that members would be called back for a vote on any agreement other than one on a domestic security agency, even though negotiators seemed near a deal today on government-backed terror insurance.
House and Senate leaders have said that besides 11 of 13 annual spending bills, the postelection Congress would probably take up the domestic security agency, terror insurance, an overhaul of the federal bankruptcy law, military policy and, perhaps, an energy bill. Aides said other contentious issues like a Medicare prescription drug benefit would probably be left for the next Congress. 
Some lawmakers held out hope that the midterm election could prompt a breakthrough on the domestic security bill. Others said that issue might be put off, too.
Republicans refused to create the department unless President Bush was given the right to cut Civil Service protections and erase union work rules. Democrats refused to create the agency without a guarantee that workers' rights would remain difficult to change.
"It's not going to happen," said Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, who blocked a vote on the issue today. "The Democrats have killed homeland security between now and the election."
The lame-duck session is scheduled to start a week after the elections that could shift power in both the House and the Senate. The session should also feature lawmakers who could be in their final days, depending on the polling results. If Senator Jean Carnahan, Democrat of Missouri, loses a special election, it is conceivable that Republicans could control the Senate in the session. 
The logjam has several origins, including the intense attention to a resolution on Iraq. The House and Senate were also never able to bridge their differences on spending, preventing Congress from performing the fundamental job of distributing money to agencies through appropriations bills.
Though some major bills made it to negotiations between the House and Senate, lawmakers were unable to hammer out final agreements. 
Here are some potential issues that could come up in a lame-duck session:

APPROPRIATIONS -- The House and Senate, separated by $9 billion out of a total budget of more than $750 billion, have passed two spending measures, both concerning the military. House Republicans have also fought among themselves about spending levels in some bills.
Legislative leaders say the spending measures would be a top priority of the session. But members of the Appropriations Committee say it would be highly unlikely if they could all be passed separately, raising the prospect of a measure to merge them. The biggest fight could occur over labor and health spending.

ENERGY -- A new policy was once a top goal of the White House, which last year issued a wide-ranging proposal calling for greater domestic fuel production and new conservation measures. The House and Senate took different approaches in their bills. Negotiations, while resolving some differences, have stalled over new rules for the electricity industry. Any proposal that would allow Arctic drilling could also doom the bill.
The bill's authors and segments of the energy industry that could gain new government benefits are eager to see a bill approved and may ultimately push to separate the provisions where there is agreement.

BANKRUPTCY LAW -- Early in the session, a bipartisan consensus seemed to form around the need to rewrite the bankruptcy code. Pressed by business and credit-card lobbyists, leaders of both parties had agreed to make it more difficult to file for personal bankruptcy. The measure stalled after Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, inserted a provision that would prevent anti-abortion protesters from escaping their court-imposed fines by declaring bankruptcy. Backers hope that it could still pass after the pressures of the election subside.

MILITARY -- Though Congress cleared a record military spending bill, it did not approve a separate Pentagon policy bill that spells out how to use some of that money, including a pay raise. The chief obstacle is a proposal to lift some environmental rules on the military and a provision backed by Congress that would let veterans collect both retirement pensions and disability pay. The White House has complained that the approach is too costly and threatened to veto the measure. Lawmakers hope to reach a solution after the election, particularly because the legislation would be important in the event of a conflict with Iraq.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, who blocked a vote on workers' rights in the proposed Homeland Security Department. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); TERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); MEDICARE (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (62%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%) CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: PHIL GRAMM (59%); BYRON DORGAN (59%) HULSE, CARL; FIRESTONE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



532 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg's Shift of Homeless to Hotels Alarms Some Neighborhoods 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH BERGER 

 BODY:
From Richmond Nelson's porch, the building across the street looks like just another hotel in a strip of five imposing hotels north of Kennedy International Airport, a place where you might find globetrotters resting for the night. The sign near the roof still says "Best Western." 
 But the travelers Mr. Nelson has seen arriving at the hotel since July have been more than 1,000 homeless people -- mothers and their children and a few fathers. They are ferried to his neighborhood after being evicted by their landlords or asked to leave by relatives weary of the crowding. 
 The city's homeless population has mushroomed by 13 percent since July 1 to 8,900 families -- the highest on record -- and forced the Bloomberg administration to take controversial measures like housing families in a vacant Bronx jail. 
But since taking over City Hall in January, the administration has also quietly set up 18 new shelters, some virtually overnight, for more than 1,200 families, usually by paying nonprofit social service providers $93 a night per room to place them in whatever failing or marginal hotels the providers could find. The total number of family shelters is now 124.
In response, there have been protests from neighbors and their political leaders across the city, in Fort Greene and Prospect Heights in Brooklyn, South Ozone Park and East Elmhurst in Queens and Hell's Kitchen in Manhattan. While some of the grievances have been of the not-in-my-backyard variety, the residents have also complained that the shelters were opened with no notice and little chance to have their voices heard.
Helen Marshall, the Queens borough president, learned of plans to convert the Best Western two weeks before it opened "through the community grapevine," never officially, said a spokesman, Daniel Andrews. And the first public hearing was not held until 11 days after the shelter's opening. A city councilman from Brooklyn, James E. Davis, recently introduced a bill requiring the agency for the homeless to give local public officials 60 days' notice before building or acquiring a shelter.
And homeowners like Mr. Nelson and other residents near the new shelters say their quiet streets have been ruffled by annoying incivilities. Homeowners opposite a former Best Western -- with more than 300 rooms, now the city's largest shelter -- say they have seen residents or their visitors drop beer bottles and fast-food cartons on their lawns, urinate behind their trees, have sex in cars alongside their sidewalks and play basketball in their backyards.
"The quality of life has just plummeted because the nature of a lot of the people that came in helps it go down," said Mr. Nelson, a 68-year-old retired high school teacher. "They don't have an inkling of our lifestyle here." There have also been complaints from area businesses. Marc Leffman, the general manager of the 386-room Radisson next door to the Best Western, said his hotel had lost contracts worth $750,000 for rooms for flight crews. "What I worry about is perception," he said. "And the perception is that if your neighbor is a homeless shelter, it's a haven for prostitutes and drug addicts and people who would pick your pockets."
City officials said court orders -- including one barring them from using the Bronx jail -- had given them no choice but to patch together the best accommodations that they could, and quickly. They blamed the upsurge in homeless families on rising unemployment and a tight housing market.
Linda I. Gibbs, the commissioner of homeless services, said that there would always be a "tremendous amount of community anxiety" and "transitional issues" when a shelter was introduced but that the department's experience was that neighbors eventually became supportive of the shelter residents. She acknowledged that little notice had been given to the neighborhoods affected, but she said she could not afford to provide "months of notice, with families awaiting shelter."
"We do not go in in the dark of night," she said. "We are responding to the demand we are experiencing, and we do not have the lxuury of providing long periods of notice."
Given a shortage of housing that can be paid for through federal subsidies, residents will probably stay at the shelter for an average of 11 months, officials said.
Some of the homeless mothers, like Cynthia Reed, said the neighborhood complaints were being blown out of proportion. Ms. Reed, a 45-year-old mother of two, was evicted from a $1,025-a-month apartment in East New York after she lost her job as a health aide.
"Some of these people don't realize they could be one paycheck away from being homeless," Ms. Reed said. "They look at us as being nobody because we're homeless."
The homeowners facing the Best Western, on 135th Avenue near the Van Wyck Expressway, sometimes sound like the white homeowners who decades ago resisted the arrival of minority families. "We see something like this decreasing our property values," said Leroy Reid, a retired Police Department property specialist who has lived in his clapboard house for 36 years and raised two daughters there. 
But most of the protesting homeowners are black, and several say most of the shelters were put in largely black and Hispanic neighborhoods. Ruth Bryant, president of a community organization, Southeast Queens Concerned Neighbors, said city officials seemed to think "the community won't make as much noise as some other communities, like Bayside and Forest Hills, which are not predominantly black."
Mr. Nelson said he learned about the move from a security guard at the Radisson. "It was kind of sprung on us," he said.
Responding to allegations that minority neighborhoods had been made targets for the shelters, James Anderson, a spokesman for the homeless agency, said, "We've opened facilities where facilities have become available."
In South Ozone Park, the conversion of the Best Western into what is now called Carlton House was done at the initiation of its owner, a partnership called JFK Acquisition Group. It filed for bankruptcy in November 2001, partly as a result of the decline in air travel after the terrorist attacks, and then, to help pay off creditors, it asked the Salvation Army if it would be interested in taking over the hotel. The Salvation Army is now negotiating a $71 million contract to manage Carlton House for another four years and nine months.
The organization has imposed an 11 p.m. curfew and posted two security guards at the 135th Avenue gate to make sure that only residents enter the hotel. Alfred Peck, the Salvation Army's director of social services for families and adults, said one security guard was dismissed for fraternizing with a resident outside the hotel. He suggested that the homeowners' complaints exaggerated problems, saying in five nights of sitting with security guards that the worst thing he had seen was someone parked in a homeowner's driveway.
Residents at Carlton House, who spend much of their days inside their rooms watching big-bellied jets lumber into the sky, said the rules made them feel as if they were confined to a prison.
"I've never committed a crime, but I feel like a criminal," said one mother of two, who asked that her name not be used. "They call you by your room number instead of by your name."
Nearby homeowners said they had worked hard to raise children in houses that now sell for more than $200,000 and they did not want to struggle with unruly behavior. Mr. Reid's wife, who asked that her full name not be published, took pains to say, "We have nothing against these people, for there but the grace of God it could be us."
But she added: "We figured we'd retire, we'd lay back and enjoy ourselves. Now we're reluctant to leave our house."

GRAPHIC: Map/Chart: "New Homeless Shelters"Across the city, the Bloomberg administration has quietly set up 18 new shelters for more than 1,200 families. Figures show the maximum number of families per shelter. Lexi's Place: 24Skyway: 15Sugar Hill Inn: 14Ellington Hotel: 86Frandt Hotel: 100Gracie Inn: 34Aladdin Hotel: 139Davidson Hotel: 24Cross Bronx Hotel: 17Anthony Hotel: 40Walton Avenue Residence: 20Suzanne's Place: 15Mike's House: 169La Guardia Family Center: 46Carlton House: 310Mazel Hotel: 18Parkview: 97Pacific Dean Residence: 49 Map of New Jersey and New York City shows location of shelters. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); HOMELESSNESS (91%); FAMILY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); EVICTION (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); CITIES (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); AIRPORTS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (50%); BASKETBALL (50%) HOMELESS PERSONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DISCRIMINATION; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS 

COMPANY: HARRY E FERRYMAN ENTERPRISES (85%); RED HAT INC (54%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (85%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (85%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (85%); NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (77%); JIM DAVIS (66%) BERGER, JOSEPH; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); DAVIS, JAMES E (COUNCILMAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



533 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1741 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Viewed Favorably in Poll, Despite Qualms About Economy 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA and MARJORIE CONNELLY 

 BODY:
New Yorkers give Gov. George E. Pataki high marks over all, especially on his response to the World Trade Center attack and its aftermath, despite some misgivings about his handling of the economy, a New York Times poll shows.
 In his bid for a third term, Mr. Pataki is running strongly across geographic, ethnic and ideological lines, with less than three weeks until Election Day. While he is not faring quite as well as a Republican usually would upstate and among conservatives, he more than compensates with serious inroads into traditional Democratic voting blocs, like New York City voters, Hispanics and liberals -- all of which spells serious trouble for H. Carl McCall, his Democratic opponent. 
 The poll shows Mr. Pataki leading Mr. McCall, the state comptroller, by 11 percentage points among likely voters. The Times surveyed 860 registered voters in New York, with a sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. Of those judged likely to vote, the sampling error is plus or minus five percentage points on each candidate. 
Among registered voters, 64 percent approve of the governor's performance in office, against 27 percent who disapprove -- a rating that is near his all-time high. He wins his best grades, by far, for his handling of the World Trade Center attack. Approval of his response is 83 percent, and on his handling of the recovery, 71 percent approve.
Voters rate him moderately well on areas like the environment, education and cutting taxes, though no more than a small fraction say he has made "a lot of progress" in any of those areas.
But New Yorkers take a lukewarm view of Mr. Pataki's economic record -- an area that weighs heavily on their minds, with 55 percent rating New York's economy as "fairly bad" or "very bad." When asked what the next governor should focus on, two out of five voters said the economy or unemployment. Twice as many people named the economy or unemployment as a priority for the next governor to focus on as named education, the highest priority four years ago.
Only 47 percent of voters approve of Mr. Pataki's handling of economic development, against 39 percent who disapprove. On creating jobs and taming the state's large debt, nearly half the voters surveyed say Mr. Pataki has made "not much" progress or "none at all."
Perhaps most striking, more than half of all voters say they believe that their taxes will be raised, whether Mr. Pataki or Mr. McCall wins on Nov. 5. 
In one warning sign for the governor, by a small margin, 49 percent to 42 percent, more voters say they think Mr. Pataki will be more interested in helping "special interests" than ordinary people, while the opposite is true of Mr. McCall. Thirty-seven percent say they think Mr. McCall will favor special interests, while 46 percent think he will favor ordinary people.
Among likely voters, 39 percent say they would vote for Mr. Pataki, to 28 percent for Mr. McCall and 16 percent for Tom Golisano, the Independence Party nominee. When undecided voters are pressed to say which way they are leaning and are added to the totals, Mr. Pataki receives 42 percent, Mr. McCall 31 percent and Mr. Golisano 17 percent, while 8 percent remain undecided.
Mr. Golisano does best among voters upstate, where the concerns about the economy are strongest. Upstate, 40 percent favor Mr. Pataki, 17 percent are for Mr. McCall and 21 percent are for Mr. Golisano. But the governor is at 50 percent in the New York City suburbs, and only 26 percent in the city itself.
"This poll, like every other public poll, demonstrated again that Governor Pataki has strong, broad support and will be elected in November," said Michael McKeon, a spokesman for the Pataki campaign.
But Steven Greenberg, a McCall campaign spokesman, said the survey was cause for optimism in his camp. "This shows that there's an incredible amount of room for growth in Carl's numbers," he said. "What we have to do is bring Democrats home, and I think they will come home in droves, because people are just starting to focus on this race."
Ernest C. Baynard, a spokesman for Mr. Golisano, said the poll did not accurately reflect Mr. Golisano's strength upstate and the candidate's gains among New York City residents, particularly Latinos and African-Americans.
The Times poll draws with unforgiving clarity the weaknesses of Mr. McCall, who has been badly outspent on two sides, and has often seemed slow and unfocused in responding to the governor's attacks.
Most important, he has yet to establish his identity in voters' minds. By a 2-to-1 ratio, voters who know of him have a favorable opinion of him. But tellingly, after he has spent nine years in statewide office and more than a year running for governor, half of all voters say they either do not have a firm opinion of Mr. McCall or do not know enough about him to establish one.
When his supporters are asked what they like best about Mr. McCall, by far the most common response, at 28 percent, is his party affiliation -- a sign of just how unfocused he remains in the public eye. Only 6 percent of Mr. Pataki's supporters say party is what they like best about him.
Mr. McCall has been unable to solidify his support among traditional Democratic groups, and he has the backing of only about half of all registered Democrats. In New York City, he has the support of 47 percent of voters, far below what a Democrat needs to win statewide. He has a statistically insignificant lead among the Hispanic voters the governor has courted aggressively.
Outside New York City, Mr. McCall is merely running even with Mr. Golisano, with the support of fewer than one-fifth of upstate and suburban voters -- an extraordinarily weak position for a Democrat.
That Mr. Pataki has not turned the race into a runaway is testament both to New York's inherent Democratic tilt and to the presence of Mr. Golisano, attacking the governor from the right.
Follow-up interviews with some of the voters surveyed provided a sense of the odd political alignments in a race that has a Republican running largely on liberal themes.
When asked why she supports Mr. Pataki, Mary Pembleton, a Democrat, first cited the state's programs to expand health care coverage, especially for children -- some of the most liberal steps the governor has taken. "He took enough concern to promote that for kids who didn't have any medical coverage," said Ms. Pembleton, 56, a secretary who lives in Cornwall, in the Hudson Valley.
"He was very good with 9/11," she added. "He was trying to help everybody -- the smallest right up to the big corporate people who lost their office space and everything. He tried to get everyone back to work."
Ms. Pembleton had very little to say about Mr. McCall, except that "he doesn't seem like he can provide enough."
David Hartman, a registered Republican, is one of many New Yorkers who worry about economic issues and have turned to Mr. Golisano, the billionaire businessman from Rochester.
"Pataki has said that taxes would go down, but our net taxes have gone up and we're retired and we're feeling sort of the pinch of the times, so I'd like to see a businessman in there," said Mr. Hartman, 83, a retired engineer who lives in Manlius, in central New York. "I don't think he's been a bad governor, but he certainly has not fulfilled his promises, and I think it's time for a change. McCall would be my second choice, frankly."
The challengers' attempts to get voters' attention have produced limited results. Only 8 percent of voters say they watched or listened to the first debate among the candidates last Sunday. About one in five say they have not seen Mr. Golisano's ubiquitous television ads.
Mr. McCall has called for the closing of the Indian Point nuclear power plant, and criticized the governor for not moving in that direction. But only one-third of voters say their choice for governor would be influenced by the candidates' positions on Indian Point, and they are almost evenly split between those who favor the plant and those who oppose it.
Three-quarters of voters say they think the quality of New York's schools has deteriorated or stayed about the same over the last four years, suggesting that they agree with one of Mr. McCall's central themes. Yet 61 percent give Mr. Pataki credit for at least some progress on education.
Voters overwhelmingly favor changing the state's Rockefeller-era drug laws, to end long mandatory prison sentences for low-level offenses, give judges more discretion in sentencing, and use treatment as an alternative to prison in some cases. Seventy-nine percent favor changing the law, and 83 percent think drug rehabilitation should be an option.

How Statewide Poll Was Conducted
The latest New York Times poll of New York State is based on telephone interviews conducted Oct. 12 to 16 with 1,103 adults throughout the state. Of those, 860 said they were registered to vote. Interviews were conducted in either English or Spanish.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of exchanges across the state. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and the number of telephone lines into the residence, and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to region of the state, race, Hispanic origin, sex, age and education.
In addition, the question about voting preference if the 2002 election for governor were being held today was based on "likely voters." Likely voters are those who say they voted in 2000 or 1998, further weighted so that those who reside in New York City make up 29 percent of the entire state, which is the city's typical share of total ballots cast on Election Day.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all adult residents of New York State. For likely voters, the potential sampling error is five percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Differences in the wording and order of questions, for instance, can lead to somewhat varying results.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "New York Voters on Pataki and on the Economy" View of the economyHow would you rate the condition of the state economy? VERY GOOD: 1%FAIRLY GOOD: 41FAIRLY BAD: 41VERY BAD: 14NO OPINION: 2 Do you approve or disapprove of the way George E. Pataki is handling the economic development of New York State? APPROVE: 47%DISAPPROVE: 39NO OPINION: 14 Voters approve of George E. Pataki. . .Do you approve or disapprove of the way George E. Pataki is handling his job as governor? APPROVE: 64%DISAPPROVE: 27NO OPINION: 9 ...the way he responded to the attack on the World Trade Center? APPROVE: 83%DISAPPROVE: 8NO OPINION: 9 Who supports whom for governorIf the election were held today, who would you vote for? WHITEMcCALL: 18%PATAKI: 44GOLISANO: 17UNDECIDED: 16OTHERS: 5 BLACKMcCALL: 67%PATAKI: 8GOLISANO: 3UNDECIDED: 16OTHERS: 6 HISPANIC*McCALL: 38%PATAKI: 28GOLISANO: 7UNDECIDED: 18OTHERS: 9 N.Y.C.McCALL: 47%PATAKI: 26GOLISANO: 5UNDECIDED: 17OTHERS: 5 SUBURBSMcCALL: 19%PATAKI: 50GOLISANO: 15UNDECIDED: 11OTHERS: 5 UPSTATEMcCALL: 17%PATAKI: 40GOLISANO: 21UNDECIDED: 18OTHERS: 4 LIBERALSMcCALL: 45%PATAKI: 22GOLISANO: 8UNDECIDED: 18OTHERS: 7 MODERATESMcCALL: 27%PATAKI: 38GOLISANO: 16UNDECIDED: 16OTHERS: 3 CONSERVATIVESMcCALL: 13%PATAKI: 48GOLISANO: 18UNDECIDED: 14OTHERS: 7 REPUBLICANSMcCALL: 6%PATAKI: 66GOLISANO: 13UNDECIDED: 11OTHERS: 4 DEMOCRATSMcCALL: 52%PATAKI: 17GOLISANO: 11UNDECIDED: 18OTHERS: 2 INDEPENDENT/OTHERMcCALL: 17%PATAKI: 36GOLISANO: 21UNDECIDED: 19OTHERS: 7 18-29McCALL: 42%PATAKI: 35GOLISANO: 8UNDECIDED: 9OTHERS: 6 30-44McCALL: 26%PATAKI: 37GOLISANO: 17UNDECIDED: 16OTHERS: 4 45-64McCALL: 26%PATAKI: 37GOLISANO: 15UNDECIDED: 19OTHERS: 3 65+McCALL: 24%PATAKI: 38GOLISANO: 17UNDECIDED: 18OTHERS: 3 *Hispanic respondents may be of any race; not enough Asian respondents to break out separately. Based on telephone interviews conducted throughout New York StateOct. 12-16, 2002, with 860 registered voters.(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HIJACKING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); TERRORISM (73%); APPROVALS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); JOB CREATION (63%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (61%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PUBLIC OPINION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); ELECTION ISSUES; NEW YORK TIMES POLL; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: INDEPENDENCE PARTY (NYS) 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; CONNELLY, MARJORIE; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER); GOLISANO, B THOMAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



534 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY; 
Tentative Deal Is Reported on $100 Billion in Aid to Insurers Facing Terror Claims

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON with JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
After months of bickering, House and Senate negotiators said tonight that they were close to a final deal on legislation to provide up to $100 billion of support to the insurance industry for future terrorist attacks.
 Administration officials and Democratic and Republican lawmakers said that a tentative agreement had been reached but that the language of the legislation was still being completed. 
 The preliminary deal would provide federal assistance for the next three years and provide as much as $100 billion in aid. The legislation would require the federal government to pay 90 percent of future terrorism-related insurance claims when insurers exceed certain levels of loss. For the first year, federal aid would be given to individual insurers that have sustained losses equal to 7 percent of their premiums. The level would rise to 10 percent in the second year and 15 percent in the third year. 
The legislation would also give the treasury secretary the authority to seek repayments from the insurance industry if the government determined that it was able to bear those costs.
The agreement is the product of a year of lobbying by the nation's largest insurers, real estate developers and banks, which contended that because the government did not provide financial guarantees to stabilize the insurance market, it was slowing down projects and contributing to the economy's problems. Several labor groups also lobbied hard for the measure, and in recent months, President Bush spoke frequently about the need for swift Congressional action.
Still, reports of the insurance problem have been conflicting. While some well-known properties have had trouble obtaining low-cost insurance coverage for terrorist activities, many others have managed to obtain financing. 
Republican and Democratic lawmakers said they had agreed in principle to reconcile competing House and Senate measures but were still working out the language this evening.
"I'm very confident that we've got an agreement," said Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, who led the negotiations for the Democrats through Wednesday night and this morning. "We haven't dotted every i and crossed every t, so I have to be cautious. But we have shaken hands."
A similar statement was issued by Representative Michael G. Oxley of Ohio, who led the negotiations for the Republicans. And a White House spokeswoman, Claire Buchen, issued a statement saying that the negotiators "have made a lot of progress" and were completing the details. 
"We're on the 1-yard line" said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. "This has been a long hard road, but the benefits to the economy of large cities like New York and nationally has made all the work worth it."
The legislation's prospects remained uncertain. The Senate could take up the measure as early as next week. But House members are gone for the last three weeks of the campaign season, so it is not clear that a vote can be taken before the members return for a session after the elections next month. 
Moreover, some Republican members were said to be angry that the preliminary deal reached by the negotiators and the White House deleted a provision from a House bill that would have prohibited victims of terrorist attacks from seeking punitive damages from companies and real estate owners.
The provision on punitive damages had been sought by Republican lawmakers and the White House and was opposed by Democrats, most notably the Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota. 
A senior administration official said tonight that the White House was disappointed that the provision had been dropped but pleased that the legislation did not contain a counterproposal that he said would have expanded the ability of victims to win punitive awards.
The official also said that the bill would contain a provision requiring all cases arising from a terrorist attack to be consolidated in one federal court that would apply the law of the state where the attack occurred. As a result defendants in such cases, like property owners and insurers, would not have to face competing claims in different courts.
"The provisions will help workers, boost the economy, and improve the litigation process," the official said.
Among insurance company executives, the reaction to the tentative deal was delighted but cautious.
"We've heard the general outlines of the bill, and it sounds promising," said Julie Rochman, a spokeswoman for the American Insurance Association, a trade group in Washington that was a leader in the lobbying campaign. "But the operational details will be very important to our industry."
Wall Street analysts also hailed the legislation. But they suggested that since the insurers had already been including terrorism coverage for many small and medium-size businesses, while limiting coverage on the riskiest buildings, the legislation would probably not have a big impact on insurance stocks. Ronald Frank, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, called the legislation "a net positive."
Some consumer advocates criticized the legislation as a government giveaway to big business.
"This agreement will likely do far more for the insurance fat cats than the working hard hat," said J. Robert Hunter, the director of insurance for the Consumer Federation of America. 
With insurers likely to be responsible in the first year only for losses equal to about 7 percent of their premiums, Mr. Hunter said, "the taxpayer assistance would kick in at ridiculously low levels." 
Mr. Hunter also said the legislation -- by reducing the potential costs to the insurance industry of a major attack -- would reduce the industry's incentive to require businesses to take security measures that might deter terrorists.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Michael G. Oxley reported progress on the bill. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (95%); TERRORISM (91%); LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HIJACKING (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (77%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (66%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) LABATON, STEPHEN; TREASTER, JOSEPH B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



535 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
PIEDMONT IS BUYING 2 VENTURES FROM PROGRESS ENERGY

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 Piedmont Natural Gas, a natural gas distributor, agreed to pay $425 million to Progress Energy for a gas distribution subsidiary in North Carolina and a stake in a joint venture. Piedmont's revenue is expected to increase 29 percent, to $1.43 billion, after the purchase. Piedmont, which already has 454,000 customers in North Carolina, will add 176,000 through the acquisition of Progress Energy's North Carolina Natural Gas business. Piedmont will also get Progress's stake in EasternNC, a joint venture with the Albemarle Pamlico Economic Development Corporation to provide natural gas to 14 counties in eastern North Carolina.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (93%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (92%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); JOINT VENTURES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%) GAS (FUEL); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

ORGANIZATION: PIEDMONT NATURAL GAS; PROGRESS ENERGY INC; EASTERNNC; ALBEMARLE PAMLICO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP 

INDUSTRY:  SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC4923 GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) NORTH CAROLINA

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



536 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 65 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
Accounts

BYLINE:  By Patricia Winters Lauro 

 BODY:
 * St. Paul Cos., Minneapolis, to Fallon Worldwide, Minneapolis, part of the Publicis Groupe, as agency of record for the commercial insurance and asset management company. 
The account had been at Campbell Mithun, Minneapolis, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. St. Paul spent $7.4 million last year to advertise in major media, according to CMR, a unit of Taylor Nelson Sofres.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (85%) ADVERTISING; ACCOUNT CHANGES 

COMPANY: TRAVELERS COS INC (94%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (92%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (57%)

TICKER: TRV (NYSE) (94%); PUB (PAR) (92%); IPG (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (94%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

PERSON: LAURO, PATRICIA WINTERS 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (91%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (73%) MINNESOTA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



537 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Aid For Small Businesses 

BYLINE:  By Joseph P. Fried (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 The city has announced an aid program to reduce by up to 15 percent the electric bills for nonretail small businesses in Lower Manhattan. The program, created with Consolidated Edison, covers the next three years. It will apply to businesses from Houston Street to the Battery that meet particular electricity-use requirements and that have qualified for aid under either of two other programs, the World Trade Center Business Recovery Grant Program and the Small Firm Attraction and Retention Grant program. The city's Economic Development Corporation said it would soon notify about 2,300 businesses that it believes are qualified. Joseph P. Fried (NYT)




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); HIJACKING (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); GRANTS & GIFTS (87%); TERRORISM (86%); TRENDS (86%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (85%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (82%) TERRORISM; SMALL BUSINESS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC 

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: FRIED, JOSEPH P 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



538 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
Making a Change in Chelsea: Rentals Go Co-op

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
The 16-story Marais building nearing completion at 520 West 23rd Street in the western corner of Chelsea was intended to be a rental, but when the building opens next month, its 107 apartments will be for sale.
 The building will break from current development patterns by being marketed as a co-op -- albeit without some of the restrictions normally associated with co-ops -- and also by carrying lower price tags than have been typical in the area. 
 The trend in recent years in Chelsea has been rental towers and condo lofts aimed at the upper end of the market, said Gil Neary, president of DG Neary Realty, sales agent for the Marais. The building's developers, the Hudson Companies, of Brooklyn, made the switch because "we concluded there was a tremendous demand for affordable-priced for-sale housing," said David Kramer, a company principal. Lower mortgage interest rates also supported the switch, he said. 
Within blocks of the project, nine rental buildings have opened in the nearly four years since zoning changes between Seventh Avenue and Avenue of the Americas from 16th to 23rd Streets permitted housing to be built in much of what had been a commercial district. The new buildings have a total of more than 2,000 apartments. Two more buildings, with nearly 600 apartments, are planned, including a 327-unit building at 555 West 23rd Street, opposite the Marais. Twenty percent of the units at 555 West 23rd Street will be set aside for families with low and moderate incomes.
"We could be reaching a saturation point," Douglas Wagner, president of Benjamin James Associates, a Manhattan brokerage, said of the rental construction. So far, he added, rents are holding or rising, and incentives, like a period of free rent, are disappearing.
At 22 Chelsea, a new 50-apartment rental building at 160 West 22nd Street, the Benjamin James brokerage began leasing five weeks ago. Tenants have signed leases for 46 apartments, which Mr. Wagner said range from 400-square-foot studios to 1,050-square-foot two-bedroom apartments. Occupancy begins next month. Monthly rents at 22 Chelsea, which will not have a doorman, are $1,590 to $4,490, Mr. Wagner said.
At the Marais, prices for the 460-square-foot studios to 1,000-square-foot two-bedroom units are expected to be $252,000 to $820,000, Mr. Kramer said. That comes to an average of $280,000 for studios, $375,000 for one-bedrooms and $580,000 for two-bedrooms, for an average of $650 a square foot.
That figure is significantly below the average per-square-foot price of $788 for new condominiums in the area in 2002, said Tara Hogan, a market analyst at the Marketing Directors, a real estate marketing and consulting firm that has represented other buildings in the area. "But on average," she said, "the Marais buyers get a much smaller apartment, a less central location and more modest amenities and finishes, enabling the developer to keep prices down."
Mr. Kramer said part of Hudson's pricing strategy was not altering the size of the apartments when the switch was made from rental to co-op. It is also using an affiliated company, Monadnock Construction, to build the project. Roslyn Savings Bank financed the $40 million project, designed by SLCE Architects of Manhattan.
The choice of the co-op form of ownership has been very unusual in recent years, with almost all new for-sale buildings being offered as condominiums. The Marais is becoming a co-op because Hudson leases, rather than owns, the land under the building. But Mr. Kramer said it would operate like a condominium; owners will not need board approval to sell or sublet their units.
In switching to a co-op, Hudson also invested $450,000 to upgrade the finishes in the apartments. There will be granite countertops instead of plastic laminated ones and stripped flooring instead of parquet. 
The initial monthly maintenance cost is estimated to be just over $1 a square foot -- $690 for a 660-square-foot unit -- and includes the rent to lease the land. The rent from the building's 4,000 square feet of retail space will go to the co-op board, which will own the stores. The rent from the stores is intended to help keep maintenance fees down. Sales of the apartments are expected to begin this month.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Marais building, marketed as an affordable co-op, bucks a real estate trend in Chelsea. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ZONING (77%); SALES FORCE (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); MORTGAGE RATES (53%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%) HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COOPERATIVES; CONDOMINIUMS 

COMPANY: JAMES ASSOCIATES (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; CHELSEA (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



539 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: THE 2002 CAMPAIGN: POLITICAL MEMO; 
G.O.P. Election Strategy on Economy: Accentuate Positives, Ignore the Rest

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
After surveying public opinion about the sluggish economy, President Bush's pollster, Matthew Dowd, provided the Republican National Committee with a compelling if somewhat self-serving conclusion last weekend: Democrats hold no advantage on the issue and Republicans should not shy away from talking about it.
 With Election Day fast approaching, talking is all they are doing. 
 After floating the possibility this summer of backing a package of tax breaks for investors, Mr. Bush quietly shelved the idea. He instead adopted a strategy of riding out the rocky recovery for the rest of the Congressional campaign by emphasizing the positive about the economy while acknowledging the troubles of people who have lost jobs or savings. 
Republicans on Capitol Hill have taken much the same approach, if only by default. House Republicans headed home today to campaign after pulling the plug Wednesday on legislation to help investors and some unemployed workers. The bill was put on the back burner after it became clear there was no consensus that the tax breaks should be more of a priority in the campaign's closing days than other unresolved economic issues, like drought aid for farmers.
Sensing a chance to cast the president and his party as unresponsive to a deteriorating outlook, Democrats are eager to step into what they see as a policy vacuum. Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader, called this week for an emergency package of new spending and tax cuts to help the economy. Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut plans to call on Friday for specific steps to help restore investor and consumer confidence. 
Democrats failed this fall to get serious consideration for their economic proposals, even staples like raising the minimum wage or extending unemployment benefits. They remain split about whether to press for a freeze of the rest of Mr. Bush's tax cut. But Democrats maintain that it is Mr. Bush and his party who are underestimating the political and economic danger of standing pat in the face of economic warning signals.
"The rosy scenario they're promoting doesn't fit with the real world life of the people in my state and across the country," said Senator Jon Corzine, Democrat of New Jersey.
The administration has concluded that the economy is recovering, though haltingly, and that voters in any case do not blame Mr. Bush or his party for what troubles remain.
Beyond reacting to events like the labor dispute at the ports on the West Coast, Mr. Bush has proposed no new economic initiatives as the stock market has tumbled and other warning signals intensified in recent months. Even the big ideas that are bubbling quietly within the administration, like creating personal investment accounts within Social Security and overhauling the tax code, were under consideration long before the current economic weakness, and Mr. Bush almost never mentions them in public these days anyway.
Instead, Mr. Bush and other administration officials have asserted that the economy is fundamentally in good shape.
"Maybe two days out of three we see favorable data and the third day we see data we don't like so much," Paul H. O'Neill, the treasury secretary, said in an interview. "On balance, our economy is doing reasonably well." 
To the degree he talks about specific legislation, Mr. Bush has limited his calls for action to demanding that Congress make permanent last year's 10-year tax cut and pass a long-stalled bill to give real estate developers better access to insurance against terrorist attacks. He tells audiences that the terrorist insurance legislation would create 300,000 jobs by allowing big building projects to go forward. He casts the Democratic leadership in the Senate as the impediment to progress on those and other pieces of economic legislation.
But Mr. Bush almost never mentions the financial markets anymore, especially after seeing the stock market fall several times this spring and summer after his comments on the investment climate. Publicly, he glosses over or ignores entirely the prospect that a war with Iraq could entail serious economic risks.
It is not clear whether the administration's generally upbeat message will sound out of touch to voters, who, judging by the decline in consumer confidence, are increasingly nervous. One of the great unknowns is whether the new mass investor class -- 50 percent of households and a much higher percentage of voters now own stock -- will tally the losses in their 401(k) accounts and take their frustrations out in the voting booth.
Indeed, there are few guidelines for the politics of an economy whose main problem is not so much job losses, the traditional focus when times are tough, but a huge loss of stock market wealth and a sharp decline in business and consumer confidence.
"My sense from being home on weekends is that people are concerned, particularly about the market," said Representative Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio. "In my region, we haven't been focused on the unemployment issue because we haven't had big layoffs. But everyone is invested one way or another now, either through their retirement accounts or more directly."
Mr. Portman's point explains why Republican leaders in the House scrambled in the last two weeks to produce a bill to help investors and rush it to the House floor before Election Day. But with the stock market in the midst of its best week in months, the effort fizzled in the last few days, leaving Republicans to face voters with no new initiatives in hand. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); TAX REFORM (70%); DISASTER RELIEF (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (68%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; ELECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%) HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JON CORZINE (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



540 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
73% Bounce Makes EBay an E-Commerce Bright Spot

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ 

 BODY:
EBay, the Internet auction giant, announced continuing growth yesterday, with nearly $264 million in net revenue from transactions in the third quarter, 73 percent higher than the figures for the period a year ago. 
 The chief executive said that eBay might have gotten a helping hand from the same economic troubles that have made a boneyard of the dot-com marketplace. 
 EBay remains a "compelling place to do business," said Margaret C. Whitman, the president and chief executive, "despite the current climate, or because of it." 
The company, based in San Jose, Calif., helped the online world buy and sell $3.77 billion worth of everything from collectibles to cars during the quarter that ended on Sept. 30.
EBay said its net income had reached $61 million, or 21 cents a diluted share, for the quarter. The year before, income was $18.8 million for the quarter. Ms. Whitman called it "an outstanding quarter for eBay."
Industry analysts agreed. "It's kind of a nice change, isn't it?" asked Derek Brown, an analyst at W. R. Hambrecht who watches the company. He pronounced the quarter "spectacular," adding, "It certainly provides a respite from some of the other news going on."
The company announced its results after the close of trading. EBay shares ended the day at $58.15, up 17 cents. But the shares lost value in after-hours trading, falling at least as low as $55.50.
"The news is as good as it sounds, and as good as was expected," said Safa Rashtchy, an analyst at U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray. The reason for the after-hours decline, he said, was that the results were "probably disappointing for people who expected more" out of the company's estimates of future growth.
Looking ahead, the company said it expected that net revenue for the fourth quarter would be $372 million to $381 million, with earnings per diluted share of 19 to 20 cents. 
For the year, the company said, it expects that consolidated net revenue could range from $1.172 billion to $1.181 billion, with earnings per diluted share of 76 to 77 cents.
That represents an increase of 4 to 5 cents a share in the company's previous guidance. 
For 2003, eBay expects that the earnings per share may range from $1.02 to $1.05 and that consolidated net revenues could be $1.77 billion to $1.83 billion.
The strategy for future growth includes making a greater international push and getting current customers to buy more on eBay and to become sellers themselves, said Rajiv Dutta, the chief financial officer.
"We have begun to focus more on increasing the activity of existing users," he said. 
EBay's continued success during the current economic slump is not surprising, he said.
"We make inefficient markets efficient," Mr. Dutta said, and that can bring greater profits to sellers and lower prices to buyers. "Nowhere is that more important," he added, "than during times that are difficult." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY REVENUES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (75%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: EBAY INC (94%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: EBAY INC 

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (94%); PJC (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (94%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%) SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES; 

PERSON: MARGARET C WHITMAN (91%) WHITMAN, MARGARET C; DUTTA, RAJIV; SCHWARTZ, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



541 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: China Frees Dissident Tibetan Nun 9 Years Ahead of Schedule 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
A young Tibetan nun imprisoned nearly a decade by China for "counterrevolutionary" crimes, was released today, nine years ahead of schedule, according to the United States-based Dui Hua Foundation, which had pressed for her freedom.
 The woman, Ngawang Sandrol, was in her mid-teens in 1992 when a Chinese court first convicted her for her protests on behalf of Tibetan independence. She is among China's longest-serving female political prisoners. 
 In 1993, while in prison, she and 12 other jailed nuns made a clandestine recording of songs praising the Dalai Lama, Tibet's exiled spiritual leader. The tape was smuggled out of prison and circulated in Tibet and abroad. It won her international recognition as well as the enmity of Chinese authorities, who extended her initial 3-year sentence to 19 years.
China frequently paroles political prisoners as a good-will gesture before summit meetings with Western leaders. This high-profile release occurred weeks before President Jiang Zemin of China is scheduled to meet President Bush at his ranch in Crawford, Tex. 
Rights groups, the State Department and numerous legislators have raised this case with the Chinese over the years.
The release also coincides with signs of a mild warming of relations between China and the Dalai Lama. Last month, high-level envoys of the Dalai Lama visited Tibet for the first time in decades and returned cautiously praising Beijing's "greater flexibility."
But rights advocates have suggested that China's new attitude is at least partly prompted by its desire for better relations, and public relations, with the United States, where the Chinese repression of Tibet is a perennial campaign issue. 
The strategy seems to be working: Upon returning from Tibet last month, a special envoy, Lodi Gyari, asked pro-Tibetan groups in the United States to refrain from demonstrating when President Jiang visits Chicago and San Francisco this month. 
Chinese troops invaded Tibet in the early 1950's, eventually forcing the Dalai Lama into exile in India. In recent years, the Chinese government has sought, with limited success, to assuage Tibetans with large amounts of economic development aid.
Ngawang Sandrol is the latest in a string of Tibetan political prisoners released this year. Last fall, during a bilateral rights dialogue, the State Department raised the cases of 18 Tibetan political prisoners; 9 of those have since been released. 
"Members of human rights groups around the world have worked tirelessly on Ngawang Sandrol's behalf for many years, and will take comfort and pride in this development," said the Dui Hua Foundation in its statement today announcing the release. 
So far, the Chinese have been less responsive to pressure to release other prisoners, like Rebiya Kadeer, a Muslim businesswoman and activist from Xinjiang Province, and Xu Wenli, a Beijing-based democracy activist.
Ngawang Sandrol was not due to be released until Nov. 3, 2011. But last week, the Chinese authorities told John Kamm, executive director of the Dui Hua Foundation, that they had decided to release her early because of her recent good behavior and because of their commitment to "light or reduced sentences for individuals who enter prison as juveniles." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); PAROLE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (68%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICAL PRISONERS 

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (66%) ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH; NGAWANG SANDROL; DALAI LAMA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); JIANG ZEMIN (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (95%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); TIBET (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%) TIBET; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



542 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: THE 2002 CAMPAIGN: FLORIDA; 
President's Help for His Governor Brother Includes More Than Campaign Stops

BYLINE:  By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

DATELINE: DAYTONA BEACH, Fla., Oct. 17 

 BODY:
President Bush returned to Florida today to try to lift the re-election prospects of his brother Jeb Bush, the state's governor.
 "I know his heart, I know his strength of conviction, I know his vision," the president said at an appearance with his brother in New Smyrna Beach before the two traveled here late today for a Florida Republican Party fund-raising event that was expected to raise $900,000. 
 But while such presidential appearances are the most overt instances of aid, the White House is also steering resources and other federal benefits to the state to help Governor Bush, who faces an unexpectedly strong challenge from the Democratic nominee, Bill McBride.
From health care to education to the environment, the White House has showered projects and money on Florida, a state that holds special meaning for President Bush well beyond the 36-day electoral standoff here in 2000: not only is his brother governor, but the state is vital for the president's re-election prospects in 2004.
Representative Mark Foley, a Republican who represents West Palm Beach, said there was "no question" that Governor Bush has used his relationship to the president to help Florida and, presumably, his own political fortunes. 
"Jeb would be letting the people of Florida down if he didn't knock on the president's door every chance he got," Mr. Foley said.
Asserting that Karl Rove, the president's chief political adviser, was focused deeply on Florida, Mr. Foley added: "If he wasn't using his relationship to his brother, I'd ask for his head to be examined. Karl Rove probably wakes up every morning and says, 'What have we done for Florida lately?' "
Bob Poe, the Florida Democratic Party chairman, said, "They've used the treasury as their own political piggy bank."
White House officials said decisions about aid to Florida were made solely on the merits. Governor Bush declined a request for an interview, although he told reporters last week that his "good relationship" with Washington "has been used to help Floridians."
Claire Buchan, a White House spokeswoman, said there had been no favoritism. "It sounds like the governor's opponents are concerned about the many positive things he has accomplished for the people of Florida," she said.
Indeed, the president has moved aggressively to help Republican governors not only in Florida but around the country, especially in states that he would like to win in his re-election campaign. Still, even Republicans say the White House has been particularly attentive to Florida.
Among other actions, the administration approved federal help for a state prescription drug program that Republicans later featured in a television advertisement promoting Governor Bush. Announcing the deal, the health and human services secretary, Tommy G. Thompson, issued a statement praising Governor Bush by name. But in announcing similar programs for Maryland and South Carolina, Mr. Thompson did not mention their governors, both of whom are Democrats.
Tony Jewell, a spokesman for health and human services, said it was a "silly conspiracy theory" to read anything into Mr. Thompson's praise for Governor Bush but not for the Democratic governors.
Governor Bush also turned a well-timed letter from the United States Department of Education into the basis for a blistering attack on the education plan offered by his opponent.
The Bush administration has also announced costly purchases of drilling rights to prevent future oil exploration in Florida. The agreement pleased environmentalists whose support the governor was seeking, but it also provided a lucrative arrangement for some wealthy Republican Party contributors.
In the deal, the Bush administration agreed in May to pay the Collier family $120 million for oil and gas drilling rights on land in the Big Cypress National Preserve in South Florida. State records show the family has donated more than $50,000 to the Florida Republican Party this year.
However, an internal National Park Service study concluded that the "likely market value" of the mineral rights is $5 million to $20 million. Oil and gas on the land, the August 2000 study found, have not yet been "determined to be economically recoverable." The deal, which requires approval by Congress, includes a comparatively small area in two nearby wildlife refuges.
A spokesman for the Interior Department said its calculations incorporated "proprietary information" provided by the Collier family "that the Park Service did not have," and the deal was reviewed by an outside consultant. A top official of family-owned Collier Resources added that the Park Service estimates are "absurdly low," and reflect incomplete data.
In another example, Governor Bush drew big headlines earlier this month when he criticized a proposal by Mr. McBride to de-emphasize standardized testing. Governor Bush contends that would cost the state $2.5 billion in federal aid and cited as proof a letter from Eugene Hickok, the under secretary of the Department of Education, stating that federal law required state testing to define whether schools were making "adequate yearly progress."
Mr. Hickok's letter, dated Oct. 1, quickly made its way to the Bush campaign office, which on Oct. 2 issued a statement, widely reported in the news media, contending that "due to the requirements spelled out by the letter" the McBride plan "would cost Florida $2.5 billion over five years."
In an interview, Mr. Hickok said the letter was sent after he and Governor Bush's education secretary discussed school testing at a conference in Denver. He said he did not believe the campaign came up during the conversation, and he added that federal education officials routinely offered guidance to state officials.
Florida, along with 26 other states, conforms with certain provisions of federal education law only because of a waiver granted by the Department of Education. Last October, the department approved Florida's plan to meet the requirements by December 2002. But a failure to follow through, the letter warned, could lead to "proceedings to withhold Title I funds from the state" -- the same pot of money Governor Bush accuses Mr. McBride of risking.
As for the purchase of the drilling rights, Interior Department officials deny that politics played any role.
"The fact that Governor Bush is in Florida and President Bush is in Washington is almost irrelevant," said Johnnie Burton, director of the federal Minerals Management Service. "Certainly people are aware of those connections," Ms. Burton added. "But it wasn't done for that reason."
In addition to the $120 million, to be paid in cash or with credits to purchase other leases, the deal with the Colliers could also bring huge tax breaks for the family. They plan to argue to the Internal Revenue Service that the mineral rights are worth far more than what is being paid, allowing them to count the difference as a charitable contribution. The formal agreement between the family and the government shows that the United States is required to "timely execute" I.R.S. tax forms so that the family "may claim a charitable contribution deduction."
Robert Duncan, the general manager of Collier Resources, said, "Vast amounts of data exist" to substantiate a high value.
Critics say the Bush administration has shown favoritism by agreeing to offshore oil lease buybacks sought by Florida, but not those sought by California. As the Collier deal was announced, the administration said it would spend $115 million to acquire leases in the Gulf of Mexico, which could bolster support among environmentalists in Florida for both Bush brothers.
California officials have also asked the government buy back 36 leases off their coast. But federal and California officials say the proposal offered by the administration last year would have still allowed new drilling on some leases. Also, the proposal called for settling a lawsuit in which the state had received a favorable ruling from a federal judge strengthening its power to block offshore drilling. The administration has appealed the ruling, further angering environmentalists.
Interior Department officials deny any special treatment for Florida and say they are willing to buy back the California leases as long as the state -- which, unlike Florida, has received $60 million in revenue from the leases -- pays part of the cost. They emphasized that the earlier offer to California was only an initial, and negotiable, proposal.
"The federal government has already tried to negotiate and end those leases, but the state was never interested in it," said Ms. Burton, the Minerals Management Service director.
But Mary D. Nichols, the California resources secretary, said California was not impressed with the proposal. "They were trying to make the lawsuit go away," she said. "It was a less-than-serious effort."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida greeted President Bush yesterday at the airport in Daytona Beach, Fla. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); APPROVALS (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); TOMMY THOMPSON (59%); KARL ROVE (59%) OPPEL, RICHARD A JR; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUSH, JEB (GOV); MCBRIDE, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) FLORIDA

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



543 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: More Greens? A Red Light From Martha's Vineyard 

BYLINE:  By BLAINE HARDEN 

DATELINE: OAK BLUFFS, Mass., Oct. 17 

 BODY:
Golf, when it is played by rich newcomers, has been ruled a development evil here on Martha's Vineyard.
 Near the stroke of midnight on Wednesday, with the island drained of the rich and socially prominent seasonal residents who fight all summer long for good tee times, the Martha's Vineyard Commission narrowly rejected a proposed new 18-hole course. 
 But the commission, which determines land use on this resort so rich in millionaires and poor in open space, did not simply vote down what would have been the Vineyard's fifth place to hook drives into scrub oak and pitch pine.
Before a packed crowd of year-round residents, many of whom have seethed at the changes that wealth and celebrity have wrought on the island in the years since Bill Clinton began playing golf here as president, commission members went out of their way to pass judgment on golf itself.
They declared the game, particularly as played by summer-season swells who swoop in and out on private jets, to be a kind of recreational poison slowly killing the clam-digging, beachcombing, plaid-shirt-wearing soul of Martha's Vineyard. 
"A golf course is the epitome of suburban leisure and affluence," said James Athearn, a commission member from Edgartown who voted against the new course. He described golf as a cultural steamroller crushing "the character and identity that we are trying to preserve." 
Linda Sibley, a commission member from West Tisbury, said golf "enhances the habitat for very ordinary suburban birds."
This island, which is 23 miles long and 9 miles wide, has a winter population of about 15,000 that expands to more than 115,000 during the summer. Those numbers, which conspire to make tee times all but unbookable in July and August, are the reason Corey A. Kupersmith of Greenwich, Conn., has spent, by his own account, $30 million trying to offer rich Vineyard visitors another golfing alternative, the Down Island Golf Club. He planned to charge membership fees of $150,000 to $200,000.
Two of the four private golf courses on the island are open only to members and their guests. The other two (including Farm Neck Golf Club, where Mr. Clinton has often played) offer restricted public play.
"I wanted to make a little money and build something a little special," Mr. Kupersmith said on Wednesday before the commission vote. "It is not my fault that Bill Clinton chose this place and there has been a golfing explosion."
Mr. Kupersmith, 42, is a pharmacist by training and a golfer by avocation. He made his $110 million fortune in 1998, he said, when he sold his medical publishing companies.
That year he began acquiring 350 acres of open woodlands in the Vineyard town of Oak Bluffs. The parcel is the town's largest single stretch of undeveloped land and one of the last places where zoning allows a golf course. In fact, the town wanted to build a public course on the site a decade ago but failed to come up with the money. 
"I was so naive," Mr. Kupersmith said. "It was approved for a golf course, and I am trying to build a golf course. I didn't think there would be any problems."
There were endless problems, and endless public meetings about those problems. The meeting on Wednesday, which lasted five hours, was the 37th on the matter.
In the last four years, Mr. Kupersmith acknowledges, he has come to be perceived on the island as "the devil." He says he fears for the safety of his four children, who summer at his rented house near Oak Bluffs. 
Mr. Kupersmith, who has never tried to build anything except this one golf course, discovered that his planned development had metamorphosed into a symbol of everything that year-round residents have come to resent about the Clinton-golf era.
"For all his good qualities, Bill Clinton did a terrible thing to us," said Paul Strauss, an active opponent of the golf course who began vacationing on the island in 1951 and retired here 11 years ago.
Mr. Strauss explained that the problem was not the rich per se. 
"The rich and famous have been coming here for generations," he said, citing James Cagney, Katharine Graham and Walter Cronkite, among many others. "They came here with loads of money, but they didn't flaunt it. They wore plaid shirts so they wouldn't stand out."
But since Mr. Clinton put the Vineyard on the map for golf, Mr. Strauss and many other year-round residents claim, a new and noxious breed of vacationer has elbowed its way onto the island.
"People bring their suburban lives here, and they want it to be the same as they have at home," Mr. Strauss said. "They don't care as much for our traditional activities, such as sailing, fishing, swimming and digging clams and scallops."
This island has a long history, though, of forcing newcomers to bend to its staid ways. McDonald's tried to establish a golden-arches beachhead here, and failed. Billboards are banned. Nearly every business, from banks to restaurants to the A.&P., is modestly clad in weathered brown shingles.
The Martha's Vineyard Commission is a 21-member agency of elected and appointed local people that was created in 1975 to head off development. It first rejected Mr. Kupersmith's golf course in 2000, and did so again early this year.
Mr. Kupersmith responded to those setbacks with a calibrated mix of sweeteners and threats. He promised, among other things, to allow public play on his course and to build a sewage treatment plant that would allow expansion of a local high school and of a home for the elderly.
He also threatened that if he did not get his way, he would use his site for a 366-unit low-cost housing development that would swamp the already crowded schools in Oak Bluffs.
With debate over the golf course growing ever more acid in the last four years, Vineyard residents have begun to accuse their neighbors of bad faith and worse. Four selectmen in Oak Bluffs who have staunchly supported Mr. Kupersmith are often accused of being on the take, a charge they indignantly deny.
Those selectmen have announced a plan for Oak Bluffs to secede from the Martha's Vineyard Commission, solely for the purpose of approving the golf course. Such a move is legal and is considered likely. It may give Mr. Kupersmith another shot at building his course.
On Wednesday night, however, Mr. Kupersmith attended the commission meeting hoping that his four-year nightmare was near an end.
When he lost, on a 9-to-8 vote, he appeared stunned, as did his large entourage of lawyers, consultants and assorted paid experts.
"I can't talk just now," he said. "I feel like I have been hit in the head with a baseball bat."
While he collected his thoughts, his senior aide on the project explained what the boss was going to do.
"Corey Kupersmith has demonstrated his pockets are deep and that he is not going to roll over and play dead for these tinhorn dictators," said Brian Lafferty, the managing director of the proposed course.
Before Mr. Lafferty could get specific, Mr. Kupersmith recovered his wits and took command of the conversation. "There is going to be retribution," he said. "They toyed with us. The only way to get a fair hearing is when they start seeing economic harm. Each member of the commission better get a lawyer. I am going to sue them."
By the time he had finished, commission members, some of them in plaid shirts and sneakers, had left the meeting room and gone home.

GRAPHIC: Photos: When the Martha's Vineyard Commission voted on a proposed new golf course, Corey A. Kupersmith, the developer, did not care for the outcome. (Photographs by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) Map of Oak Bluffs, Massachusetts, highlighting the area of the rejected golf course development. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (89%); CELEBRITIES (79%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CONSPIRACY (71%); PHARMACISTS (62%); PUBLISHING (50%) GOLF; LAND USE POLICIES 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (87%) HARDEN, BLAINE; CLINTON, BILL; KUPERSMITH, COREY A 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (98%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (98%) MARTHA'S VINEYARD (MASS)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



544 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Senate Approves President's Nominee to Head the F.D.A. 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
The Senate today approved President Bush's nominee to head the Food and Drug Administration.
 On a voice vote, the senators approved Dr. Mark B. McClellan, a physician and an economist who is one of Mr. Bush's top advisers on health policy. 
 "Dr. McClellan has the training, the experience and the stature to serve as the head of the country's most important public health regulatory agency," said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.
The F.D.A., whose 10,000 employees regulate medical treatments, food and cosmetics, has been without a commissioner since Mr. Bush took office. In nominating Dr. McClellan, the president told him to pay special attention to protecting the nation from bioterror, speeding patient access to breakthrough therapies and making those therapies safer.
The Senate also passed without debate today a bill that requires the manufacturers of medical devices to pay tens of thousands of dollars in new user fees in return for speedier government review of their products.
The House passed the bill on Wednesday. It now goes to Mr. Bush.
The proposal mirrors an existing system of user fees paid by drug companies for speedier reviews of medications by the food and drug agency. 
Under the bill, manufacturers of medical devices like catheters, pacemakers and M.R.I. machines would pay more than $25 million in fees over the next year. In exchange, the government would hire more staff members and improve procedures to allow for speedier product reviews.
Lawmakers agreed on third-party inspections of manufacturing companies and plants. Many companies had argued that they should be able to hire third-party companies to inspect their plants, rather than undergo numerous inspections to satisfy federal and foreign requirements. Some lawmakers had concerns that such a system would have too little oversight.
The compromise narrows that provision to apply to companies that do business overseas. It also includes civil and criminal penalties for third-party reviewers that are fraudulent or withhold information from the government.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Mark B. McClellan (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (91%); MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); COSMETICS (70%); TERRORISM (54%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (54%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%) FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); TED KENNEDY (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MCCLELLAN, MARK B (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



545 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE U.N.; 
U.S. Said to Offer France Final Compromise to End Iraq Resolution Impasse

BYLINE:  By JULIA PRESTON 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
The United States today offered France what it called a final proposal for a Security Council resolution to disarm Iraq, seeking to break a deadlock that threatened to paralyze the Council.
 Council diplomats said the new American proposal included a serious offer of compromise in answer to France's demand for a second stage of debate and voting before the United States and its allies could go to war against President Saddam Hussein. 
 Britain, the United States' only ally so far in its campaign for military action against Baghdad, stepped in to try to bridge the persisting gap between Washington and Paris, assuring France and other wary Council members that London would insist on another round of "detailed discussions" before any military assault.
France did not immediately agree to the United States offer, and in a speech this afternoon before the Council, Ambassador Jean-David Levitte reiterated the two-stage proposal unchanged. 
But French diplomats said they were more optimistic than they have been in weeks that a compromise could be reached.
In what appeared to be the last round of brinkmanship in hard negotiations that have dragged on for five weeks, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said in New York today that Washington would insist on a single resolution that would spell out clearly that "if Iraq fails to abide by United Nations resolutions, there have to be consequences and action has to be taken."
But according to a Council diplomat familiar with the talks, the United States was prepared to give up a completely explicit authorization of the use of military force in the first resolution if it would not have to go back to the Council for a second vote, where other members with veto power could block American-led military action. 
The intense diplomacy came on the second day of an unusual open debate on Iraq in the Council chambers that included both the 15 Council members and dozens of nonmember nations. In speech after speech, countries expressed an overwhelming consensus in favor of returning United Nations arms inspectors to Iraq to give Baghdad a last chance to give up its prohibited weapons and resolve the crisis peacefully. 
Secretary Powell said the talks were "going well." 
Russia, also speaking before the Council, questioned Washington's motives and sternly rejected any authorization of military action in advance of thorough weapons inspections.
"If we are not talking about inspections," said the Russian ambassador, Sergey Lavrov, "but about an attempt to use the Security Council to create a legal basis for the use of force or even for a regime change of a United Nations member state, then we see no way how the Security Council could give its consent to that."
Russia is a permanent, veto-bearing member of the Security Council, along with the United States, Britain, France and China. 
The specific language that would be included in the American and British draft resolution is still under discussion, Council diplomats said. But Washington's proposal, prompted by an idea from Britain, was to include two new clauses. One of them would acknowledge the Council's option of meeting to consider a new resolution after the weapons inspectors have begun their work and report back on it, Bush administration officials said. The other new clause would threaten "consequences" if Iraq did not cooperate. 
The administration's fear has been that if the inspectors do not report unambiguous arms violations by Iraq, the Council would fall to quibbling over the results, as it has in the past, and the United States would be further isolated in its drive to launch a war to oust Mr. Hussein. 
Bush administration officials insisted that they had not retreated from their demand for immediate authority to use military force. 
"The United States, in the presence of continued violations, new material breaches, will have the authority to do what we believe is necessary to protect our people and protect our friends," Secretary Powell said.
"Obviously, " he said, "the Council can always go off and have other discussions at any time it chooses."
Speaking before the Council today, the American ambassador, John D. Negroponte, said the United States would present its resolution formally "in the near future." American officials, seeking to raise the pressure as high as they could, suggested that the administration was prepared to proceed whether France agreed or not. Diplomats said the resolution could be adopted by the end of next week. The weapons inspectors would begin returning to Iraq about 10 days after that.
Secretary Powell met in New York today with Hans Blix, the head of the United Nations weapons inspections team. He also talked by telephone with Foreign Minister Igor S. Ivanov of Russia and the French foreign minister, Dominique de Villepin. 
Mr. Ivanov said in Moscow that the new United States' proposal "takes into account our viewpoint."
Speaker after speaker in debate today echoed a call issued yesterday by Secretary General Kofi Annan for unity in confronting Iraq. Many nations also said they wanted the weapons inspectors to return to give Iraq a chance to come clean of any weapons of mass destruction, so the Council could lift the economic sanctions imposed in 1991. 
Even Sir Jeremy Greenstock, Britain's ambassador, felt forced to insist that "our first preference is a peaceful solution.
He said that whenever Mr. Blix or weapons inspectors reported that Iraq was not cooperating, Britain would insist on a new Council meeting to "hear the view" of other members.
Both Sir Jeremy and Secretary Powell pointedly avoided any reference to another Council vote. American officials argued that the new proposal would not give other veto-bearing Council members a chance to block American action down the line, but it would give them an opportunity to decide whether they would join a coalition to oust Mr. Hussein if he balked.
Today's debate ended unexpectedly in an acrimonious verbal confrontation between Israel and the Palestinian representative and other Arab envoys. The fight broke out after the Israeli ambassador, Yehuda Lancry, asked to rebut Arab charges that the Security Council had a double standard because it did not require the same compliance from Israel as from Iraq.
Mr. Lancry said Iraq was a "dictatorship, a serial violator of Council resolutions and human rights," compared with Israel, "a democracy put to the test of survival for decades."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jean-David Levitte, France's United Nations ambassador, reiterated a call for more debate on Iraq yesterday. (Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); VETO (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (61%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%) PRESTON, JULIA; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); LEVITTE, JEAN-DAVID (AMB) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (96%); IRAQ (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) IRAQ; FRANCE; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



546 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: A NUCLEAR NORTH KOREA: JAPAN AND SOUTH KOREA; 
North Korea's Revelations Could Derail Normalization, Its Neighbors Say

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
Japanese and South Korean officials said today that North Korea's self-confessed pursuit of nuclear weapons could derail efforts to normalize relations and jeopardize the promise of billions of dollars in economic aid. 
 With some analysts saying North Korea is trying to drive a wedge between the United States and its two closest regional allies, Japan and South Korea, the Bush administration is apparently trying to coordinate a response with the two countries. 
 Both Japan and South Korea, which have been comparatively friendly with North Korea, closed ranks today with the United States, protesting the North Korean revelation.
Yasuo Fukuda, Japan's chief cabinet secretary, said that if North Korea "is indeed breaking a promise, the process toward normalization would not go forward." But he stopped short of calling off talks on normalizing ties that are scheduled to be held in two weeks. 
In South Korea, Yim Sung Joon, the top foreign and national security policy adviser to President Kim Dae Jung, told reporters, "The president views this as a grave matter, and it is his position that it is unacceptable under any circumstances for North Korea to develop nuclear weapons." 
Over the past five years, President Kim, who is trailing in polls before elections in December, has pursued a policy of trying to improve ties with North Korea and has made South Korea an important source of food aid and foreign investment for the impoverished communist nation. 
Last month, Japan's prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, made a groundbreaking trip to the North Korean capital, Pyongyang, and started a process of diplomatic normalization that could have included billions of dollars in future aid. 
But today, Hatsuhisa Takashima, Japan's Foreign Ministry spokesman, said, "We cannot start giving economic assistance as long as they keep up with this kind of violation.
"If your neighbor has nuclear weapons, or if your neighbor seriously tries to get nuclear weapons, how can you live with them?" Mr. Takashima said. "You cannot give any assistance to them. They have to stop doing that."
In Russia, another nation with growing economic leverage over North Korea, reaction was cautious today as officials sought to understand what was going on. Vice Foreign Minister Aleksandr Losyukov met with South Korea's ambassador to Russia and then reportedly expressed strong concern that "recent positive developments" on the Korean Peninsula may be jeopardized if North Korea violated a 1994 agreement that commits it to ending its nuclear weapons program.
Caution was also expressed today by China, which increasingly serves as North Korea's reluctant friend of last resort, largely for strategic reasons. A high-level North Korean delegation visiting China today appears to have talked largely about economic reforms with Chinese officials. 
"We have always supported the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and the maintenance of peace and stability on the peninsula," the Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Zhang Qiyue, told reporters in a regularly scheduled briefing. "We believe that the nuclear issue of North Korea should be settled through dialogue and negotiation and should be settled peacefully." 
John R. Bolton, the American under secretary of state for arms control, and James A. Kelly, the American diplomat who elicited the confession from North Korea two weeks ago, met today with authorities in Beijing. The Chinese are eager to avoid conflicts with the United States before President Jiang Zemin's meeting with President Bush in Crawford, Tex., on Oct. 25. 
After Beijing, the Americans will travel to Seoul to meet with South Korean officials on Saturday and then to Tokyo for discussions with Japanese officials on Sunday.
On Oct. 26, on the sidelines of an Asia-Pacific summit meeting in Mexico, Mr. Bush is to meet with Mr. Koizumi of Japan and Mr. Kim of South Korea.
"There will be a coordinated position negotiated among this troika," said Mr. Takashima, the Japanese spokesman. Looking ahead to the Japan-North Korea talks, which start three days after the Mexico meeting, he said, "We will press them very hard to make them comply with all the commitments they have made on abduction cases and on nuclear development."
"We want to ask North Korea to deal with this sincerely and to get rid of the nuclear suspicions," Mr. Koizumi told reporters today. He added that the bilateral declaration that he signed last month with Mr. Kim in Pyongyang stipulates that "North Korea should follow international law and clear up suspicions" about nuclear weapons programs.
Defending Japan's decision to go ahead with the talks, Mr. Fukuda, the cabinet secretary, asked, "The question is, would North Korea abandon the nuclear development program on its own without such talks?"
Across Northeast Asia today, analysts tried to decipher why North Korean officials admitted two weeks ago to Mr. Kelly that their country had been violating the 1994 nuclear disarmament agreement. The principles of that agreement were enshrined in a 2000 agreement with South Korea and repeated in the Pyongyang Declaration signed last month when Mr. Koizumi held his meeting with the North.
Optimistic analysts said Mr. Kim was coming clean on the nuclear issue, the same way he had tried to come clean on the kidnapping issue.
"We regard it as a sign North Korea is willing to resolve this problem through dialogue," said Mr. Yim, the South Korean adviser who guides his nation's "sunshine policy" of opening to North Korea.
Greater skepticism came from Japan, where public opinion has been shocked by the recent North Korean revelation that it had kidnapped Japanese citizen 24 years ago. In a measure of anti-North Korea sentiment here, Shigeru Ishiba, director general of the Defense Agency, last week told Howard H. Baker Jr., the American ambassador to Japan, "Japanese people have come to realize that North Korea is a horrible terrorist state."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Zhang Qiyue, spokeswoman for China's Foreign Ministry, left; Yasuo Fukuda, Japan's chief cabinet secretary, center, and President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea, right, showed concern about North Korea. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); PEACEKEEPING (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); TERRORISM (59%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TERRORISM 

PERSON: YASUO FUKUDA (71%) BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (59%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); CHINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%) NORTH KOREA; JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



547 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Springtime for Hitler 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
You may recall that George W. Bush promised, among other things, to change the tone in Washington. He made good on that promise: the tone has certainly changed. 
 As far as I know, in the past it wasn't considered appropriate for the occupant of the White House to declare that members of the opposition party weren't interested in the nation's security. And it certainly wasn't usual to compare anyone who wants to tax the rich -- or even anyone who estimates the share of last year's tax cut that went to the wealthy -- to Adolf Hitler. 
 O.K., maybe we should discount remarks by Senator Phil Gramm. When Mr. Gramm declared that a proposal to impose a one-time capital gains levy on people who renounce U.S. citizenship in order to avoid paying taxes was "right out of Nazi Germany," even the ranking Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, Charles Grassley, objected to the comparison.
But Mr. Grassley must have thought better of his objection, since just a few weeks later he decided to use the Hitler analogy himself: "I am sure voters will get their fill of statistics claiming that the Bush tax cut hands out 40 percent of its benefits to the top 1 percent of taxpayers. This is not merely misleading, it is outright false. Some folks must be under the impression that as long as something is repeated often enough, it will become true. That was how Adolf Hitler got to the top." 
For the record, Robert McIntyre of Citizens for Tax Justice -- the original source of that 40 percent estimate -- is no Adolf Hitler. The amazing thing is that Mr. Grassley is sometimes described as a moderate. His remarks are just one more indicator that we have entered an era of extreme partisanship -- one that leaves no room for the acknowledgment of politically inconvenient facts. For the claim that Mr. Grassley describes as "outright false" is, in fact, almost certainly true; in a rational world it wouldn't even be a matter for argument.
You might imagine that Mr. Grassley has in hand an alternative answer to the question "How much of the tax cut will go to the top 1 percent?" -- that the administration has, at some point, produced a number showing that the wealthy aren't getting a big share of the benefits. In fact, however, administration officials have never answered that question. When pressed, they have always insisted on answering some other question. 
But last year the Treasury Department did release a table showing, somewhat inadvertently, that more than 25 percent of the income tax cut will go to people making more than $200,000 per year. This number doesn't include the effects of estate tax repeal; in 1999 only 2 percent of estates paid any tax, and half of that tax was paid by only 0.16 percent of estates. The number also probably doesn't take account of the alternative minimum tax, which will snatch away most of the income tax cut for upper-middle-class families, but won't affect the rich. 
Put all this together and it becomes clear that, sure enough, something like 40 percent of the tax cut -- it could be a bit less, but probably it's considerably more -- will go to 1 percent of the population. And the administration's systematic evasiveness on the question of who benefits from the tax cut amounts to a plea of nolo contendere. 
Which brings us back to the new tone in Washington.
When Ronald Reagan cut taxes on rich people, he didn't deny that that was what he was doing. You could agree or disagree with the supply-side economic theory he used to justify his actions, but he didn't pretend that he was increasing the progressivity of the tax system. 
The strategy used to sell the Bush tax cut was simply to deny the facts -- and to lash out at anyone who tried to point them out. And it's a strategy that, having worked there, is now being applied across the board.
Michael Kinsley recently wrote that "The Bush campaign for war against Iraq has been insulting to American citizens, not just because it has been dishonest, but because it has been unserious. A lie is insulting; an obvious lie is doubly insulting." All I can say is, now he notices? It's been like that all along on economic policy. 
You see, some folks must be under the impression that as long as something is repeated often enough, it will become true. That was how George W. Bush got to the top. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ESTATE TAX (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); CITIZENSHIP (70%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TAXATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (79%); PHIL GRAMM (68%); PAUL KRUGMAN (59%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



548 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: A NUCLEAR NORTH KOREA: DIPLOMACY; 
Weighing 'Deterrence' vs. 'Aggression'

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
The Bush administration responded today to the disclosure of North Korea's nuclear weapons program with a strategy of urgent diplomatic pressure free of military threats or even a tone of crisis. It was a marked contrast with the drumbeat of warnings about force and the mobilization of troops against Iraq, also a member of the "axis of evil" identified by President Bush, but one he says poses the most serious danger to the United States. 
 The two separate and in some respects contradictory strategies reflected the administration's desire not to let North Korea derail Washington's plans to confront Saddam Hussein. The risk was that some Americans might wonder why conciliation ought not to be tried toward both countries. 
 Aides to Mr. Bush were quick to assert that the two situations are entirely different. 
"There is not one policy that fits all," said Richard A. Boucher, the State Department spokesman. "Each situation has to be dealt with on its own."
Administration officials say that although Iraq probably does not yet have nuclear weapons, it poses a more serious threat to its region because its record of using chemical weapons against its enemies and of invading two neighboring countries in the past. 
Whereas North Korea is described by many experts as wanting weapons to deter an invasion, Iraq is feared generally as a nation willing to use its weapons to bully others. This concern is what the administration says justifies its policy of pre-emptive action against Baghdad. 
"North Korea is a fundamentally conservative dictatorship," said a former diplomat who has dealt with the Korean peninsula over three decades. "They're the worst kind of totalitarian regime, and their willingness to cheat is unquestioned. But they do not pose an imminent threat to regional stability. The fundamental threat from North Korea is still deterred by the presence of American troops in South Korea. So the administration is right to focus on Iraq."
A State Department official said Iraq was different from North Korea not simply because Baghdad had used weapons of mass destruction and has ties with terrorists, but because North Korea had proved itself to be "at least sometimes susceptible to international pressure." As a result, he said, diplomacy was justified, at least for now. 
The administration's low-key strategy toward North Korea was being carried out by the four partners with which it has been working for years to coax North Korea into living peacefully with its neighbors. The clear hope at the White House was that the four -- Japan, South Korea, China and Russia -- could salvage the possibility of negotiation to remove an advanced nuclear threat from a nation as isolated, dictatorial and unpredictable as any on earth.
For Iraq, by contrast, the administration was continuing to threaten to use force as a way of bludgeoning President Hussein to accept inspections of its chemical, biological and nuclear weapons programs, followed by disarmament.
Perhaps inevitably, many policy makers focused today on why engagement with North Korea -- which included the implication that economic aid could resume some day -- might not also be valid for Baghdad.
"The American reaction shows you the difference between dealing with a country that already may have nuclear weapons, and one that doesn't," said Gary Milhollin, director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms and a leading expert on nuclear proliferation issues. 
As early as 1993, the North Koreans were thought to have one or two nuclear bombs from their plutonium program, and the latest revelations about their parallel development of highly enriched uranium means they could have more. 
This means, according to Mr. Milhollin, that North Korea could have the capacity to attack Tokyo, Seoul or even the United States right now, which necessitates a cautious approach. Indeed, North Korea's artillery, rockets and other conventional weapons -- which experts say could easily destroy large parts of Seoul -- have for decades served as a deterrent against any possibility of an attack by the United States. 
Military experts say that for all its erratic conduct, North Korea is not planning to blackmail or coerce neighboring countries. 
In some ways, the purpose of North Korea's nuclear program is viewed by diplomatic experts as analogous to that of Pakistan's. Just as Pakistan has moved to acquire such weapons to counter the threat presented by India, these experts say, North Korea has acquired nuclear arms to protect itself from being overrun by South Korea, a fear that pervades everything from government propaganda to children's textbooks. 
Another factor lessening the urgency of North Korea as a threat, and leading Americans to believe that diplomacy may still work, is the country's nearly desperate state of poverty and starvation. For years North Korea has had to rely on outsiders to help feed its people, the very outsiders who will now demand that it dismantle its nuclear program. 
The need for outside help has led to several conciliatory gestures, including the recent repatriation of kidnap victims to Japan, family exchanges with South Korea and apologies for some of its past egregious spying and aggression.
Indeed, if the United States ever entertained any idea of confronting North Korea, it would likely meet resistance from its two closest allies in the region, Japan and South Korea. Japan's prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, for example, was quick to say today that Japan would continue to try to engage North Korea despite the latest developments. 
If there was disagreement over how to handle North Korea in the Bush administration, which was divided early last year, it was not evident today. That could have been because the so-called hawks and doubters who have criticized past conciliatory moves toward North Korea are now preoccupied with mounting a military action against Iraq. 
For North Korea, at least, the negotiating approach is back in fashion for now, and an administration filled with officials critical of the 1994 Clinton-era accord under which the North promised to give up its nuclear weapons program is working to see if the agreement can be revived and made foolproof. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); TERRORISM (65%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%) WEISMAN, STEVEN R; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) NORTH KOREA; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



549 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: A NUCLEAR NORTH KOREA: INTELLIGENCE; 
U.S. SAYS PAKISTAN GAVE TECHNOLOGY TO NORTH KOREA

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER and JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
American intelligence officials have concluded that Pakistan, a vital ally since last year's terrorist attacks, was a major supplier of critical equipment for North Korea's newly revealed clandestine nuclear weapons program, current and former senior American officials said today.
 The equipment, which may include gas centrifuges used to create weapons-grade uranium, appears to have been part of a barter deal beginning in the late 1990's in which North Korea supplied Pakistan with missiles it could use to counter India's nuclear arsenal, the officials said. 
 "What you have here," said one official familiar with the intelligence, "is a perfect meeting of interests -- the North had what the Pakistanis needed, and the Pakistanis had a way for Kim Jong Il to restart a nuclear program we had stopped." China and Russia were less prominent suppliers, officials said. 
The White House said tonight that it would not discuss Pakistan's role or any other intelligence information. Nor would senior administration officials who briefed reporters today discuss exactly what intelligence they showed to North Korean officials two weeks ago, prompting the North's defiant declaration that it had secretly started a program to enrich uranium in violation of its past commitments. 
The trade between Pakistan and North Korea appears to have occurred around 1997, roughly two years before Gen. Pervez Musharraf took power in a bloodless coup. However, the relationship appears to have continued after General Musharraf became president, and there is some evidence that a commercial relationship between the two country's extended beyond Sept. 11 of last year.
A spokesman for the Pakistan Embassy, Asad Hayauddin, said it was "absolutely incorrect" to accuse Pakistan of providing nuclear weapons technology to North Korea. "We have never had an accident or leak or any export of fissile material or nuclear technology or knowledge," he said.
The suspected deal between Pakistan and North Korea underscores the enormous diplomatic complexity of the administration's task in trying to disarm North Korea, an effort that began in earnest today. 
In Beijing, two American diplomats, James A. Kelly and John R. Bolton, pressed Chinese officials to use all their diplomatic and economic leverage to persuade North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons program. The subject is expected to dominate a meeting next week between President Bush -- who a spokesman said today "believes this is troubling and sobering news" -- and President Jiang Zemin of China, at Mr. Bush's ranch in Texas. 
Mr. Bush did not address the North Korean revelation at appearances in Atlanta and Florida today. Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld did talk about the disclosures at the Pentagon, but one official said the effort to play down the topic was part of an administration strategy of "avoiding a crisis atmosphere." 
At the same time, White House and State Department officials argued that what they called North Korea's "belligerent" announcement to a visiting American delegation two weeks ago demonstrated the need to disarm Iraq before it enjoys similar success.
"Here's a case in North Korea where weapons have proliferated and put at risk our interests and the interests of two of our great allies," Japan and South Korea, Richard L. Armitage, the deputy secretary of state, said today. "It might make our case more strong in Iraq." Some Democrats agreed, while opponents of a military strike against Iraq argued the reverse, saying the administration's muted reaction to North Korea, and its announcement that it wanted to solve the problem peacefully, should also apply to Baghdad.
There were conflicting explanations today about why the administration kept the North Korean admission quiet for 12 days.
The White House said it simply wanted time to consult with Japan, South Korea and other Asian nations, and with members of Congress, before deciding its next step. But some of the administration's critics suggested that the real reason was that the administration did not want to complicate the debate over Iraq in Congress and the United Nations.
On Capitol Hill, conservative Republicans argued that the 1994 accord that froze North Korea's nuclear program -- an agreement the North Koreans now say is "nullified" -- should be scrapped, and talked about new efforts to isolate North Korea. But within the Bush administration, it has been a matter of some controversy whether to abandon the Clinton-era accord. Hard-liners have argued that it should be scrapped.
But other officials, including some at the State Department and the National Security Council, are warning that walking away from the accord carries a major risk: it could free North Korea to remove from storage "canned" nuclear fuel rods with enough plutonium to produce upwards of five nuclear weapons. 
American officials said their suspicions about North Korea's new nuclear program only came together this summer. Mr. Bush fully briefed Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan on American suspicions when the two leaders met in New York in September, according to Japanese and American officials. But it is unclear how strongly Mr. Koizumi raised the issue later with Kim Jong Il during his visit to North Korea.
Today, several of Mr. Bush's top aides argued that North Korea and Iraq were separate cases -- and while North Korea might have more advanced weapons, it could be contained through diplomacy and the 37,000 American troops stationed in South Korea. Appearing on ABC's "Nightline" tonight, Condoleezza Rice, Mr. Bush's national security adviser, said that "Saddam Hussein is in a category by himself, as still the only leader to have actually used a weapon of mass destruction against his own people, against his neighbors." She said that Mr. Kim was also a dictatorial leader, and that North Korea had a record of exporting missiles and other weaponry around the world. But she said "we do believe that we have other ways to deal with North Korea." 
While the action the United States would seek against North Korea was still being debated, one senior official said that Mr. Bush and his aides would ask Russia and China to exercise some "direct leverage" against North Korea by restricting trade. 
In 1998, a commission on missile threats led by Mr. Rumsfeld, then still in private life, concluded that North Korea was "a major proliferator" of missile technology to Pakistan and Iran, among other countries. It said that in 1998, Pakistan tested its version of a North Korean-designed missile called the Nodong, which has a range of more than 700 miles. But Clinton administration officials say they could not figure out how Pakistan, virtually broke at the time, could afford the purchases.
Exactly when North Korea received equipment from Pakistan is still unclear. But today American officials estimated that North Korea's highly enriched uranium project started sometime around 1997 or 1998 -- roughly the same time Pakistan tested the missiles it received from North Korea.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan, left, and Kim Jong Il, the North Korean leader, met in September, but it is unclear how strongly Mr. Koizumi raised the issue of North Korea's nuclear program. (Pool photo by Associated Press)(pg. A8) Chart: "Broken Promises"Despite signing several nonproliferation treaties, North Korea has pursued a nuclear weapons program for over a decade. 1985DECEMBERNorth Korea signs the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, but does not sign a required safeguards agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency, the inspection agency. 1991DECEMBERNorth and South Korea sign the Joint Declaration on the Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, which calls for bilateral inspections. 1992JANUARYNorth Korea signs the safeguards and inspection agreement for the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. 1993JANUARYNorth Korea refuses to allow inspections of two facilities suspected of holding nuclear waste. MARCHNorth Korea threatens to withdraw from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. 1994OCTOBERNorth Korea and the United States sign an Agreed Framework, in which North Korea agrees to halt any nuclear weapons program in return for two modern nuclear power plants. 1997AUGUSTGround is broken for a modern nuclear power plant in Kumho, built by a U.S.-led consortium. OCTOBERThe director of the International Atomic Energy Agency announces that North Korea has continued to resist weapons inspections. 2002JANUARYPresident Bush calls North Korea part of an "axis of evil" with Iran and Iraq for developing weapons of mass destruction. OCTOBERNorth Korean officials admit they have an active nuclear weapons program. (Sources: International Atomic Energy Agency; Federation of American Scientists)(pg. A8) Map of Asia highlighting North Korea. (pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ARMS TRADE (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); COUPS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CENTRIFUGES (72%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMS SALES ABROAD; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (91%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); KIM JONG IL (72%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%) SANGER, DAVID E; DAO, JAMES; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); JIANG ZEMIN (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (76%) PAKISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) NORTH KOREA; PAKISTAN; CHINA; RUSSIA; INDIA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



550 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Despite Jump in Energy Costs, Consumer Prices Barely Rise 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
Consumer prices rose a moderate 0.2 percent in September, the government reported today, despite the biggest jump in energy costs in five months. 
 The rise in the Consumer Price Index, the government's most closely watched inflation gauge, was in line with expectations and comes after a 0.3 percent increase in August and a 0.1 percent gain in July. 
 The report, released by the Labor Department, showed that energy costs shot up 0.7 percent in July, led by a 1 percent surge in gasoline pump prices. Energy costs have accelerated in the last three months, reflecting in part growing concerns that a possible war in Iraq will disrupt global supplies. 
With the release of the September price index, the government was able to announce that millions of Americans receiving Social Security benefits will get an increase of 1.4 percent in their checks next year. The rise will bring an additional $13 a month to the average retiree, pushing the monthly check to $895. 
The Social Security adjustment, based on measuring the increase in consumer prices from the third quarter of last year to the third quarter of this year, is the smallest since a 1.3 percent rise in 1999. 
Most analysts say that the jump in energy costs will not be enough to cause an acceleration in the overall inflation rate as prices elsewhere will continue to be held back by the inability of businesses to raise the costs of their products. 
The Labor Department reported that consumer prices from January through September were rising at an annual rate of 2.6 percent this year, compared with a 2.7 percent rate for the period last year. 
Many analysts think that moderate inflation will continue for some time as the economy struggles to mount a sustained recovery in the face of the steep plunge in stock prices, falling consumer confidence, a weak job market and rising anxieties about a possible war with Iraq. 
For September, the 0.7 percent rise in energy prices came after a 0.6 percent increase in August and was the biggest one-month jump since a 4.5 percent surge in April. Energy prices had actually retreated a bit in May and held steady in June before rising Middle East tensions started pushing crude oil prices higher. 
Food prices were up a moderate 0.2 percent in September after having fallen 0.1 percent in August. The overall figure was held back by a 2 percent decline in pork prices. 
Outside of the volatile food and energy sectors, the so-called core rate of inflation was up 0.1 percent in September, an improvement over the 0.3 percent rise in core inflation in August. For the first nine months, core inflation is rising at an annual rate of 2.1 percent, slower than the 2.8 percent rise in the period last year. 
Clothing prices, which had jumped 1.1 percent in August, moderated to a 0.1 percent rise in September. 
Medical care costs, which have been rising faster than most other categories, were up 0.3 percent in September after a 0.2 percent increase in August. 
Education costs dipped by 0.2 percent in September after a 0.7 percent surge in August.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Consumer Prices"Percent change, month to month.Graph shows the percentage change of consumer prices (seasonally adjusted) from Oct. 2001-Sept. 2002. U.S.Index for Sept. 2002: 181.0Percent change from previous:Month: +0.2Year: +1.5* Major Metropolitan AreasNot seasonally adjusted New YorkPercent change from previous:Month: +0.1Year: +2.8 Los AngelesPercent change from previous:Month: +0.2Year: +2.6 ChicagoPercent change from previous:Month: +0.3Year: +1.3 San Francisco+ (Aug.)Percent change from previous:Month: +0.2Year: +1.3 Philadelphia+ (Aug.)Percent change from previous:Month: +1.1Year: +3.0 Detroit+ (Aug.)Percent change from previous:Month: +1.1Year: +3.3 Boston+Percent change from previous:Month: +1.7Year: +3.3 Dallas+Percent change from previous:Month: +0.2Year: +0.2 Houston+ (Aug.)Percent change from previous:Month: +1.1Year: +0.9 Washington+Percent change from previous:Month: +0.5Year: +2.1 *Not seasonally adjusted.+Calculated bimonthly. Figures are for September, except as noted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart: "Balance of Trade"The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. August 2002Balance: -$38.46Imports: 120.32Exports: 81.86 Graph shows the amount of money generated from imports and exports from March 2001-August 2002. Graph shows the deficit amount (12-month moving average) from March 2001-August 2002. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (92%); PRICE INCREASES (92%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (79%); GASOLINE (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); PORK (74%); IRAQ WAR (74%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (64%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (64%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (62%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); ENERGY AND POWER 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



551 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Irish Referendum Today Looms Large in the Future of Europe 

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
With the collapse of the Soviet empire, the end of the cold war conjured heady dreams among Central and Eastern Europe's peoples that they might aspire to the kind of Western freedoms and riches once glimpsed through the chain mail of the Iron Curtain.
 A decade later, those visions may be within reach. In mid-December, the 15 wealthy countries of the European Union plan to complete negotiations to admit 10 new lands to form a huge bloc of 450 million people stretching from the Baltic to the Mediterranean, from Russia's borders to the Atlantic. 
 But there is a hitch. Through a quirk of Europe's democracy, the expansion depends on the mood of 2.9 million Irish voters, who will decide in a referendum on Saturday whether to approve the Treaty of Nice, a cumbersome European Union document that sets the rules for redrawing Europe's east-west divide, marked by wars for most of the 20th century. 
Europe's destiny lies in the only European Union member required by its own Constitution to ratify the treaty by referendum. The 14 others have already approved it, but Irish voters rejected it once and another rejection could set back the expansion for months or years.
The European Union's future "is in Irish hands," said Daniel Keohane, a researcher at the Center for European Reform, a London-based pro-European research organization. 
Irish voters rejected the treaty in June 2001, forcing the authorities here to try again. "If the Irish vote no a second time, it would be a huge blow to the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe," Mr. Keohane said.
Ireland has benefited more than most from European Union membership: its people are now at least 20 percent better off than the European average, after years of record growth in the 1990's. Yet they could end up denying those same benefits to 75 million people on the other side of the Continent.
An Irish rejection, said Niall Stanage, a magazine editor here, would be "an act of supreme selfishness."
Much depends on the vote. "What this enlargement means," said Ben Tonra, a lecturer at University College here, "is that we no longer have a border with Eastern Europe the same as the United States does with Mexico. It means we underpin the transition to democracy in Eastern Europe and put our hands in our pocket to pay for it."
In last year's referendum, voters rejected the treaty by 54 percent to 46, on a turnout of less than 35 percent. The latest polls indicate that this year the "yes" vote is clearly ahead, but the polls were wrong last year. One survey this week indicated that 19 percent of voters were still wavering.
Unlike last year, the newly re-elected government of Bertie Ahern has thrown energy and money into the campaign to obtain a yes vote. News about the referendum fills newspaper columns. Trucks with campaign slogans roll up and down the quays along the River Liffey here. Campaign posters adorn the lampposts. Politicians from former Prime Minister Garret FitzGerald to Gerry Adams, the president of Sinn Fein, have been out on the streets to press their cases.
Two posters drew some tut-tutting. A no poster showed a man with a gun held to his head and urged voters not to be bullied. A yes poster showed a scantily clad couple entwined on a beach with the slogan, "It's better to be inside," apparently a reference to the European mainstream.
But the issues seem to relate as much to the way Ireland would like to perceive itself as to the fortunes of the 75 million people in the applicant countries: Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Cyprus and Malta. 
As it was last year, the debate is caught up in domestic political issues that could turn the referendum into a protest vote against Mr. Ahern's government at a time when the "Celtic Tiger" economic boom has slowed to a more kittenish pace, corruption charges against government officials have resurfaced, public finances are in trouble and the welfare lines are beginning to grow again.
Opponents like the Greens, Sinn Fein and an amalgam of right-wing Catholic groups contend that Ireland's influence would be diluted in a larger Europe and that its neutrality would be undermined by a European militarization even though the European Union has issued a formal declaration to the contrary.
"There's a delicious irony in Sinn Fein talking about the demilitarization of Europe," said Mr. Tonra, the lecturer, referring to the conflict in Ulster over disarming the Irish Republican Army, of which Sinn Fein is the political wing. "Some people have suggested that they might look closer to home." 
For the yes campaigners -- which include the political elite, both government and opposition, and a new Irish Alliance for Europe -- a second no vote would scar Ireland's international credentials and deter badly needed foreign investment. 
"Our choice in Ireland," said Albert Reynolds, a former prime minister, "is whether we will stay at the European Union's top table of influential member states, or whether it will result in a huge loss of face for the Irish in Europe."
For some no campaigners, the real issue is not enlargement but provisions in the Treaty of Nice that would, the argument goes, create an undemocratic Europe dominated by the big, powerful nations like France and Germany. 
Most yes campaigners believe their chances will be greatly enhanced by a higher turnout, arguing that anything above 45 percent will strengthen their cause. 
In an editorial, The Irish Times said today that another rejection of the treaty would throw enlargement into crisis. "With so much at stake, it is essential that those intending to vote 'Yes' should turn out to do so tomorrow to ensure such potential dangers are avoided," it said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ireland holds a referendum today on enlarging the European Union. A poster gave one side of the argument. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (92%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); COLD WAR (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (76%); APPROVALS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%) REFERENDUMS; PUBLIC OPINION 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: BERTIE AHERN (53%) COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (76%) EUROPE (99%); IRELAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EASTERN EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%) IRELAND; IRELAND

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



552 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: New Rules of Engagement With North Korea 

BYLINE:  By Joel S. Wit; Joel S. Wit is a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Just as the crisis with Iraq is heating up, the United States is on the verge of a serious confrontation with another member of the "axis of evil," North Korea. The recent visit of James A. Kelley, an assistant secretary of state, to Pyongyang ended with North Korea admitting that it is conducting a secret program to produce nuclear bomb-making material. As a result, the stage could be set for a repeat of the 1994 crisis with North Korea over a previous effort to build such weapons, a crisis that brought us close to a second Korean War.
 A nuclear-armed North Korea would pose a serious threat to the 37,000 American troops in Korea and to the security of South Korea and Japan. It would undermine the global nonproliferation regime, creating pressure on Seoul and Tokyo to acquire their own nuclear weapons. Finally, it violates the 1994 Agreed Framework between America and North Korea that froze Pyongyang's nuclear program. 
 Unfortunately, the Bush administration's policy toward Pyongyang has left it with very few options to solve this problem. The Clinton administration succeeded in negotiating access to a suspected nuclear production site in 1999 because it had an ongoing dialogue for putting that arrangement in place. Such a dialogue does not exist today. Moreover, this administration has never been enthusiastic about talking with North Korea or carrying out the 1994 Agreed Framework. Discovery of a new secret nuclear program will only reinforce that distaste.
The access negotiations also took place in a strong multilateral context. If they had not succeeded, the United States could have worked with South Korea, Japan and even China to craft a tough response. The United States was in a good position since it had demonstrated a willingness to pursue dialogue with Pyongyang.
The Bush administration is in a comparatively weak position because it has not demonstrated a serious interest in dialogue. Also, Pyongyang's recent initiatives to improve relations with South Korea and Japan may make both hesitant to confront the North. Even without these disadvantages, seeking tough multilateral measures against North Korea and Iraq at the same time may be more than the diplomatic traffic can bear.
If the Bush administration's recently published security strategy is truly a guide to White House thinking, a third option is to launch a pre-emptive attack against North Korea's nuclear program. However, the rhetoric of a pre-emptive strike may have little to do with reality, and the administration has so far been very reluctant to discuss a military option. There are good reasons for hesitation: Seoul, with a population of 10 million, is so close to the demilitarized zone separating the two Koreas that it is in range of thousands of North Korean artillery pieces. The possible chain reaction set off by an attack could have catastrophic consequences. Once again, risking military action in Korea as war with Iraq looms over the horizon seems more than even the world's sole superpower could handle.
Of course, it is possible that North Korea may do whatever the United States asks it to do. There is a view in Washington that Pyongyang is on the run as a result of the Bush administration's tough approach. However, North Korea has surprised us before. This latest development itself seems to have come as a surprise. "Don't let the United States turn us into another Iraq," have been words to live and die by in the North Korean leadership. Giving in to American demands now could do precisely that, perhaps fatally undermining the stability of a regime that needs the fiction of proud self-reliance to keep any legitimacy with its people.
In 1993, North Korea became the first country to announce its intention to withdraw from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, leading to a terrifying crisis. That happened after the United States refused to talk to Pyongyang until it had acceded to demands for international inspections of its nuclear program.
If the Bush administration seeks to isolate North Korea or declares the Agreed Framework to be null, Pyongyang may produce a large nuclear arsenal. It could use existing facilities and plutonium already in its possession but frozen and under international supervision as a result of the 1994 agreement.
However, rather than abrogate the Agreed Framework, Washington -- in close consultation with Seoul and Tokyo -- should suspend its implementation for the time being. Pyongyang has admitted violating the spirit if not the precise terms of the agreement and Washington must respond. That will mean halting two critical programs agreed to in 1994: construction of two reactors and monthly shipments of heavy fuel oil.
But any suspension must be coupled with a sustained, serious diplomatic dialogue with North Korea. One objective would be to secure international inspections to ensure that all North Korea's nuclear activities end. Such inspections are provided for in the 1994 agreement, though with later deadlines than the Bush administration would like. These deadlines, combined with White House indecision, have been a major stumbling block. The new developments provide the perfect context for pushing forward right away.
North Korea may be open to such a suggestion. Leaving Pyongyang's defiant rhetoric aside, the fact that it confessed to a secret nuclear program is a sign that North Korea may be looking for a way out of a potential crisis. In the context of agreement to that approach, the Bush administration should put back on the table a package of economic and political steps to improve relations with Pyongyang.
In the end, diplomacy may fail. But it must be seen by our allies and the international community as failing because of North Korean, not American, intransigence. Only then will the United States be on a firm footing to seek international action and, if necessary, to use force. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); IRAQ WAR (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); WIT, JOEL S 

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%) UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); JAPAN (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); CHINA (79%) NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



553 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Ad Company Makes Bad Bet On Auto Races 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE KAPNER 

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
It was something of a head scratcher from the start: Interpublic, the giant advertising agency group, becoming involved in the auto racing business. Now it has become a headache. 
 The Interpublic Group of Companies, the parent of agencies like Foote, Cone & Belding and McCann-Erickson, said this week that problems at its Octagon Motor Sports division would reduce its earnings by 15 to 20 cents a share, much more than the previous forecast of 4 cents a share. The news sent the company's stock into a skid that it has yet to halt; it shed nearly 30 percent of its value on Thursday and another 1.7 percent today in New York trading, closing at $11.25 a share. That is the lowest price since early 1995; as recently as mid-May, the stock was trading above $34 a share. 
 The difficulties at Octagon show how the big agency companies' stampede in recent years into new types of marketing services can backfire, analysts said.
In Interpublic's case, those problems were magnified by a lack of oversight that gave inexperienced executives too much autonomy, people close to the company said: Octagon was run by "race day" managers who enjoyed the perks of popular sports events, but were inept at negotiating contracts and formulating business plans.
The economic cycle has hurt, too, with a broad slowdown in spending on sports marketing and a wave of media consolidations that have driven down the prices paid for sports television rights.
Mark Dowley, the chief executive of Interpublic Sports and Entertainment Group, said that Interpublic remained committed to its sports marketing businesses, most of which are performing well.
The problems, he said, are confined to the motor sports division, which operates racetracks in Britain -- including the one where the British Grand Prix is held and where Octagon's troubles culminated in a public spat with Bernie Ecclestone, the powerful Formula One racing tycoon.
Though they have only broken into the open recently, the seeds of Octagon's troubles were sown in 1997, a boom time in the advertising business, when Interpublic approved a plan by Frank Lowe, one of its agency executives, to develop a sports marketing business.
Sir Frank (he was knighted in 2001) became chairman of Octagon as well as Lowe & Partners Worldwide, another unit of Interpublic. He is scheduled to resign from both posts at the end of the year. He declined to comment for this article.
Sir Frank, who founded an agency that Interpublic bought in 1990, made his reputation in British advertising as a creative force, developing popular campaigns and slogans like one promising that Heineken "refreshes the parts other beers cannot reach."
But, as he said in an interview with The Financial Times last year, his sports marketing experience was limited. "I thought, right, I've run a tennis tournament, maybe I know something about sports marketing," he told the newspaper. "Boy, was I wrong."
Though Sir Frank was the main architect of the group's foray into sports, Interpublic's senior management shares some of the blame for Octagon's travails, a person close to Interpublic said, mentioning the former chief executive, Philip H. Geier, who stepped down in March 2000, and his successor, John J. Dooner Jr.
"Of the many mistakes that were made, one of them was putting someone in charge of this business who had been very successful on the creative side but who knew nothing about sports marketing," this person said.
Sir Frank took Interpublic on an acquisition spree, buying event-management companies, TV rights brokers and talent agencies representing star athletes like Anna Kournikova. Then, in 1999, Octagon bought Brands Hatch Leisure, which ran racetracks in Britain and operated motor-sports events in Australia. And that is when the trouble really started.
The managers that Interpublic acquired along with Brands Hatch Leisure proved to be weak at basic tasks like marketing and running sports sites, the person close to Interpublic said. Eleven of the 13 top Brands Hatch executives were eventually replaced, but not before they had tangled the company in a web of unmanageable contracts. In some cases, the company promised the same service simultaneously to competing clients; in others, commitments were made that could not be honored. The cost of unwinding and settling those contracts is a large part of the earnings shortfall Interpublic announced this week, the person close to the company said.
The situation drew scorn from Mr. Ecclestone, who has more than once threatened to cancel the British Grand Prix at Silverstone, one of the racetracks that Octagon manages. Tempers ran high at last year's race in July, when Mr. Ecclestone's helicopter was diverted to a nearby airfield and he was forced to drive around the course's perimeter. His criticism of the event led to the resignation of Octagon's chief executive, Robert Bain.
"It was total disorganization," Mr. Ecclestone said in an interview today. "Octagon's management was the problem. They weren't up to the task."
Since then, Octagon has mollified Mr. Ecclestone and managed to hang on to the Grand Prix, one of the most popular races in Britain, with a plan to invest millions of pounds in the Silverstone track.
Octagon's new managers have proposed closing a racetrack in Hong Kong and selling several British tracks to streamline its business, according to Ruth Wicks, a spokeswoman.
But industry executives still wonder what an advertising company is doing owning racetracks in the first place. Interpublic executives may eventually come around to the same view, analysts said, and it will have been an expensive lesson.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sir Frank Lowe will resign at year's end. (Gary M. Prior/Allsport, Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); AUTO RACING (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); SPORTS MARKETING (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); FORMULA ONE RACING (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); INTERVIEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (62%); TOURNAMENTS (61%); TENNIS (50%) ADVERTISING; AUTOMOBILE RACING; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (98%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (60%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (58%); TAPSA AGENCIA DE PUBLICIDAD SL (58%); DRAFTFCB INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS; OCTAGON MOTOR SPORTS (CO) 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (98%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

PERSON: BERNARD ECCLESTONE (50%) KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED KINGDOM (86%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



554 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Bausch & Lomb Executive Admits to Falsified Resume 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE WAYNE 

 BODY:
Ronald L. Zarrella, the chief executive of Bausch & Lomb, a maker of eye care products, admitted yesterday that his resume contained false information about his education. But, as Bausch shares began to fall on the news, the company's board issued a statement of confidence in him.
 Mr. Zarrella, who was named chief executive 11 months ago, had said that he received a master's degree in business administration from New York University when, in fact, he had not. From 1972 to 1976, Mr. Zarrella attended the N.Y.U. business school as a night student while working for Bristol-Myers, but he left before graduating. 
 "I'm embarrassed that some of this incorrect information appeared in some of our published materials on my background," Mr. Zarrella said in a statement yesterday. "Clearly it's my obligation to proofread such things carefully and ensure their accuracy."
A spokeswoman for Bausch, Margaret Graham, said Mr. Zarrella had no plans to resign. 
Yesterday morning, a columnist for TheStreet View, a publication of TheStreet.com, reported the false resume in a column critical of Mr. Zarrella and his track record. The columnist, Herb Greenberg, said Mr. Zarrella's nonexistent M.B.A. was included in a press release from Avaya, a communications company that has Mr. Zarrella as a director.
The news sent Bausch's shares down in heavy trading; they fell about 4 percent before closing down $1.01, at $31.48.
The Bausch board issued a statement supporting Mr. Zarrella, who had held several positions at Bausch from 1985 to 1994 before leaving the company. He returned as chief executive last year.
"We brought back Ron Zarrella to lead Bausch & Lomb because of his extensive business experience and his demonstrated management skills," said William H. Waltrip, the most senior director, after the board held a conference call. "We knew based on his previous tenure with the company that he would offer outstanding leadership to the organization, and he's certainly done so.
"We have every confidence in Ron," Mr. Waltrip said in a statement, "and expect that his continued contributions will generate sustained improvements in the company's operating performance."
Earlier this week, the company reported higher-than-expected third-quarter earnings of 48 cents a share. That was above an expectation of 44 cents a share. Still, the company is in the midst of a turnaround being engineered by Mr. Zarella. Its stock remains at five-year lows and many of its product lines are in decline. 
Mr. Zarrella, who had been president of General Motors North America for seven years before returning to Bausch, is not the only executive to face a problem of a false resume. 
Earlier this month, the Veritas Software Corporation fired its chief financial officer, Kenneth E. Lonchar, after discovering that he did not have an M.B.A. from Stanford, as he had claimed. 
This is not the first time that Bausch has had a brush with notoriety. 
In the late 1990's, under Daniel Gill, the company was investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission for using questionable tactics to put more sales on the books. While the inquiry was closed with no fines or penalties, the company did pay $42 million to settle a shareholder lawsuit. 
While at General Motors, Mr. Zarrella was considered by many in Detroit to be an interloper who failed to halt a decline in sales. Mr. Zarrella used an approach that relied heavily on customer research and focus groups to design cars. Auto executives criticized it as backward looking and said it resulted in the production of bland cars. 
Another effort of Mr. Zarrella was to offer no-interest loans under a patriotic campaign called "Keep America Rolling." After Mr. Zarrella left, the plan was criticized as masking G.M.'s economic reality and was cut back. 
Toni Simonetti, a spokeswoman for General Motors, declined to comment, saying that it would "not be appropriate" for G.M. to comment on "something that took place while Mr. Zarrella was working for Bausch & Lomb."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald L. Zarrella, chief of Bausch & Lomb, admitted he does not have an M.B.A. degree. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); OPHTHALMIC PHARMACEUTICALS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); WRITERS (74%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS MFG (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); RESIGNATIONS (67%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) ETHICS; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS 

COMPANY: SYMANTEC CORP (60%); AVAYA INC (55%); THESTREET INC (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BAUSCH & LOMB INC 

TICKER: SYMC (NASDAQ) (60%); TST (NASDAQ) (55%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%) SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS; 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE; ZARRELLA, RONALD L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



555 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1193 words

PERSON: Masayuki Komatsu 

HEADLINE: THE SATURDAY PROFILE; 
An Environmentalist Who Loves to Eat Whales

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
IN "Whale Hunters," a new BBC documentary, Masayuki Komatsu can be heard giving a Japanese whaling ship captain advice on how to deal with Greenpeace protest boats: "When they approach, blow them out of the water."
 In a nation of bland comment, Mr. Komatsu loves the one-liner. In a nation of deference, he likes confrontation. In a nation of low profile, Mr. Komatsu is the Japanese nail that never gets hammered down. 
 Mr. Komatsu has striking advice for a visitor, coming as it does from the man whose job is to protect Japan's marine environment.
"First, you go whale watching," he suggested. "Then, on shore, you go eat whale sushi!"
The line was just what critics and supporters alike have come to expect of Mr. Komatsu, a career bureaucrat with steel-rimmed glasses and a row of pens neatly arrayed in a pocket protector. He has taken up the cause of restoring Japanese whaling to its golden days, the years before Americans placed "Save the Whales" stickers on car bumpers, before a later generation was ruined by the movie, "Free Willy!"
Mr. Komatsu's cause is unpopular in a world where commercial whaling has been banned for 20 years. He has pursued it with what many see as an indigestible mix of old-fashioned nationalism, selective culinary history and transparent political ambition.
He is not above rough tactics. In May, when the International Whaling Commission once again refused to end the global ban on commercial whaling, Mr. Komatsu grabbed a microphone from his delegation leader and single-handedly blocked what was supposed to be a nearly automatic vote to allow whales to be hunted by Alaskan Eskimos and Siberian natives, indigenous peoples who depend on them for food. With his action, Mr. Komatsu said in effect, if Japan can't whale, no one can.
Delegates were incensed. The American representative called it "the most unjust, unkind and unfair vote ever taken" in the more than half century the group has been in existence. Others said the future of the entire organization was in doubt. But at a special session of the commission in Cambridge, England, this week members voted to restore whaling quotas to Alaskans and Siberian natives, undoing the vote orchestrated by Mr. Komatsu last summer. 
In early November, Mr. Komatsu plans to lead a campaign at a United Nations conference in Chile on endangered species to end a longstanding ban on the international trade in whale meat.
Indeed, official Japan increasingly clings to whale hunting as a nationalist badge of honor. Last month, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi named to the post of environment minister Shunichi Suzuki, a leader of the Parliament's pro-whaling faction, a man who rejected the anti-whaling movement as "culinary imperialism."
That has long been Mr. Komatsu's view. Sometimes he tries to express it with reserve. "The Japanese mentality is to not stand out," the 48-year-old father of two explained in an interview here in a ministry meeting room decorated with a dusty stuffed seal. "I try to tone it down, to take my wife's advice."
THE son of a part-time fisherman, Mr. Komatsu grew up in a Rikuzentakata, a coastal town of 27,000 people about 250 miles northeast of Tokyo. 
When he was a boy, an accident in which 20 family friends, all tuna fishermen, were lost at sea inspired him to a career in maritime safety. After graduating from a regional university, he got a job with the Japanese Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries in 1977, and he has remained there ever since.
To the regret of American environmentalists, he came away from two years of study at Yale with a business degree, but not much of New Haven's green thinking. Instead, he turned his new American linguistic and educational tools to defending Japanese whaling on cultural, historical and often economic grounds.
"You eat cows and drink beer," he told his American visitor. "We eat whales and drink sake. Japan is a country surrounded by oceans, and for many years, Japan has appreciated the riches from the ocean." 
Citing three anti-whaling nations, he added, "Australia, New Zealand and the United States have vast agricultural lands where they can raise meat -- sheep, cows, kangaroos, whatever -- so they don't have to rely heavily on seafood from the oceans."
JAPAN is about one-third of its way to reaching a self-imposed annual quota of killing 550 whales for what it calls scientific research. The meat is then sold to restaurants, though many Japanese, particularly young people, do not eat whale meat.
Mr. Komatsu rejected the view that Japanese whaling is a sunset industry, heavily subsidized and providing employment for only 200 workers. Instead, in defending attempts to revive whaling in coastal towns, he focuses on the long history of whaling in Japan, going back to eighth-century government records.
America's role in Japan's whaling history has been significant. Mr. Komatsu notes that Commodore Perry forced Japan to open to the outside world in 1853 in order to provide supply stations for American whaling fleets. After World War II, Gen. Douglas MacArthur staved off famine in Japan by ordering Japanese whaling ships to Antarctica to catch whales.
Mr. Komatsu said he blocked the renewal of Eskimo whaling quotas because anti-whaling nations refused to allow Japanese coastal communities to resume their own traditions. At the time, he accused the United States of a "double standard" and said it was America's turn to feel "some pain."
The American delegates returned to Washington, protesting bitterly. Administration officials intervened, forcing Prime Minister Koizumi's government to agree to a compromise that allowed American Eskimos and Siberian natives to hunt whales, as they have for hundreds of years.
ONE might think this would spell trouble for a mid-level Japanese bureaucrat. But Mr. Komatsu's position seems as sturdy as ever. Last month, he settled into his new office at the ministry: director of fisheries research and environmental protection.
While Japanese diplomats privately lament his aggressive approach, Mr. Komatsu's apparent untouchability comes from careful cultivation of his political base -- fishing companies, fishing towns and fishing unions -- each a pillar of support for Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party.
It also has not hurt that his performance at the whaling conference enthralled Japanese television viewers and brought him popularity akin to a rock star. After the conference, Mr. Komatsu said, the ministry received 20,000 e-mail messages, 95 percent approving of Japan's position.
Speculation runs strong here that he is building a political base to run for Parliament, a move that would bring relief to anti-whaling activists. For the moment, they resort to circulating snide e-mail comments saying that his teenage daughters swim with dolphins.
At the mention of this e-mail campaign, Mr. Komatsu visibly tensed.
"My younger daughter was very taken with dolphins," he said, in a confessional tone. "Our two daughters went to aquariums, swam with dolphins. Yes. They also went whale watching."
Then he regained his composure. "At the same time," he added, "they eat seafood and other fish -- such as whales."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Masayuki Komatsu (Stuart Isett/Gamma, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHALING (94%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (73%); FISHING LAW (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%) FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; WHALES AND WHALING; FISHING, COMMERCIAL 

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (84%); INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION (54%)

BROOKE, JAMES; KOMATSU, MASAYUKI 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) ALASKA, USA (92%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%); CHILE (79%) JAPAN

CATEGORY: Social Activism 

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



556 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Markets Finish an Impressive 2-Week Run

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Stocks finished a volatile week with small gains yesterday but still managed a milestone of sorts: one of the better two-week performances since World War II.
 The Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which were each up 0.6 percent yesterday, rose 10.5 percent in the last two weeks, their best performance since last October, when the stock market was rebounding after the terrorist attack. It was the fifth-biggest two-week rally for the S.& P. 500 index since 1945 and the seventh biggest for the Dow. 
 The Nasdaq composite index, which jumped 1.2 percent yesterday, climbed 13 percent over the two weeks, its ninth-best performance since the Nasdaq was started in 1971. 
How comforting investors find the performance depends on whether this rally continues. If stocks falter, it will be just two good weeks from the lowest the overall market has been in five and a half years.
By one measure -- the flow of money into stock mutual funds -- retail investors may not be that impressed yet. One reason may be that the big summer rally that began in July and took the Dow Jones industrial average over 9,000 for a day, fizzled in August.
In the week ended Wednesday, investors took $4.1 billion out of stock mutual funds, according to AMG Data Services. The overall value of these funds rose more than $100 billion in the week because of the rise in stock prices. In every week since June, except for one, there have been outflows from stock mutual funds, using a four-week moving average.
"In the 1990's and even in 2000, investors took the opportunity to buy more stocks on any dip," said Robert Adler, president of AMG. "This has not occurred here. Investors are taking a more considered view."
On the other hand, the big sell-off in the bond market may indicate that investors who had landed there in search of a market haven may be feeling a little better about the prospects in stocks. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, has jumped half a percentage point in seven trading days.
"I am not a snarling bear anymore," said William E. Rhodes, chief investment strategist at Rhodes Analytics in Boston. "I'm sitting and looking at my paws, wondering when they will change to hooves."
But stocks, he added, are still too expensive and there are still too many companies that are just beating corporate earnings forecasts by selling property. 
Yesterday, the Dow was up 47.36 points, to 8,322.40, while the S.& P. 500-stock index climbed 5.19 points, to 884.39. The Nasdaq rose 15.57 points, to 1,287.86.
Among the stocks leading the market higher yesterday were Microsoft, which rose $2.38, or 4.7 percent, to $53.15 after announcing late Thursday that it was raising its revenue and earnings forecasts for the year ending June 30. I.B.M. -- up $2.05, or 2.8 percent, to $74.25 -- rose for a second day on its positive earnings report. The decliners included General Motors, off $1.09, or 3.1 percent, to $34.31, and Johnson & Johnson, down 85 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $59.35.
Treasury securities rebounded yesterday after falling for six consecutive trading sessions. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note fell to 4.11 percent, from 4.20 percent Thursday, while the price rose 23/32, to 102 5/32.
The driving force in the stock market the last two weeks has been good and bad news in earnings announcements for the third quarter. Citigroup and Bank of America powered a furious rally on Tuesday, sending the Dow up 4.8 percent. Intel, J. P. Morgan Chase, Motorola, Coca-Cola, Boeing and Ford helped send the Dow down 2.7 percent on Wednesday. Then I.B.M. and Eastman Kodak gave a lift Thursday, propelling the Dow 3 percent higher. Microsoft was a positive yesterday.
Third-quarter earnings reports have been positive, but that is partly because many companies toned down Wall Street expectations in advance. Based on actual results from 210 companies in the S.& P. 500 index and forecasts for the rest, third-quarter operating or pro forma earnings, which exclude some items, are up 6.4 percent over a year ago. But that is down from the forecast of 16.6 percent growth made July 1. And earnings that exclude items can allow a company to put the best face on its performance, an accounting procedure that is under fire.
Operating earnings for technology companies, including those that have reported and the current forecasts, are up 24 percent for the third quarter so far. This performance can be attributed largely to the big lifts from I.B.M. and Microsoft this week. Before these two companies' reports, earnings growth for the technology sector was 13 percent.
But the outlook for fourth-quarter operating earnings is still slipping. The current estimate of 17.8 percent growth from a year ago is down from a 27.7 percent forecast on July 1 and a 19.9 percent consensus as of Oct. 1.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "A Good Two Weeks"The 10 best two-week periods of the Standard & Poor's 500. TWO-WEEKS ENDING: Oct. 18, '74CHANGE: + 15.94 TWO-WEEKS ENDING: Aug. 27, '82CHANGE: + 12.77 TWO-WEEKS ENDING: Dec. 18, '87CHANGE: + 11.27 TWO-WEEKS ENDING: Oct. 5, '01CHANGE: + 10.93 TWO-WEEKS ENDING: YesterdayCHANGE: + 10.49 TWO-WEEKS ENDING: April 20, '01CHANGE: + 10.15 TWO-WEEKS ENDING: Oct. 11, '74CHANGE: + 9.55 TWO-WEEKS ENDING: Oct. 15, '82CHANGE: + 9.51 TWO-WEEKS ENDING: March 24, '00CHANGE: + 9.49 TWO-WEEKS ENDING: Aug. 10, '84CHANGE: + 9.41 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORISM (56%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: AMG DATA SERVICES (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



557 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
A Vulnerable Time to Be Moving Oil by Sea

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE and KEITH BRADSHER 

 BODY:
After the United States began its war in Afghanistan, many in the oil industry braced for what they saw as inevitable: terrorist attacks on tankers.
 The first came early this month when an explosion crippled the French tanker Limburg in the Gulf of Aden, an incident Yemeni officials said Wednesday was the work of terrorists. Few think it will be the last. After the nightclub bombing in Bali last weekend, Indonesian officials said oil operations would probably be the next targets of terrorists in their country, which sits astride crucial tanker routes. And maritime insurers are beginning to sharply raise the premiums they charge to cover tankers in risky waters. 
 Shipping and oil executives say tankers have been taking what precautions they can. But without a lot more help from national governments, especially in hazardous areas like the Persian Gulf and Southeast Asia, the tankers will remain highly vulnerable, the executives said. Even an all-out effort by the world's navies and coast guards probably could not completely safeguard the tanker fleet.
"Tankers are sitting ducks," said Harry Banga, the vice chairman of the Noble Group, a shipping and logistics company based in Hong Kong. "They don't have any security; they don't have any protection."
And they have nowhere to hide. Geography forces the tankers carrying much of the world's oil supply to pass through one or more of three narrow straits -- the entrances to the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf and the Straits of Malacca between Indonesia and Malaysia. "The biggest areas for transit are in the terrorist areas," Mr. Banga said.
The deep-water shipping channels in these straits can be so narrow that a single burning supertanker and its spreading oil slick could block the route for other tankers, executives said; in these and several other straits in Indonesia, there would not be not enough room for naval escorts to screen tankers from attack, even if the escorts were available.
A tanker's huge size makes it somewhat hard to sink, but very easy to hit, shipping executives said. Tankers are too slow and cumbersome to maneuver away from attackers; their radar systems are designed to avoid collisions with other large ships, but not to detect small boats. Even the double hulls used on newer tankers to reduce the risk of spills are not designed to stop explosives, though they may fare better than older single hulls.
Large commercial vessels like tankers almost never mount deck guns to ward off attackers themselves, because many ports prohibit the weapons.
About all the ships can do is stay far from shore when possible and take the basic precautions commonly used in areas with piracy problems, said Chris Horrocks, secretary general of the International Chamber of Shipping, a maritime trade association: "Manning fire pumps, extra deck lighting so that you are very visible, additional deck patrols in high-risk areas -- anything that will make it less likely that it will be you rather than someone else." 
Mr. Horrocks's organization and others say that only governments can provide any significant protection to tankers. So far, oil companies have said little publicly about the attack on the Limburg, and it is unclear whether they are lobbying governments for greater protection.
Asian shipping executives say that it is hopeless to expect effective military protection for vessels passing through the straits near Indonesia. There are too many vessels, too many islands and too many long, narrow sea passages for that to be practical, they argue.
"If we go around protecting every large tanker against small-boat attacks, we miss the larger point," said Arthur Bowring, the managing director of the Hong Kong Ship Owners Association, one of Asia's largest shipping trade groups. "We should more actively aid the Indonesian economy to stop the attacks."
There are 50,000 tankers and other freighters plying the world's oceans, and it would be hard to make a case for defending oil tankers and not, for example, chemical tankers or tankers carrying liquefied natural gas, Mr. Bowring said. And if tankers alone were protected, terrorists could simply board an undefended freighter carrying a dry bulk cargo like iron ore and then ram it into a tanker, he said.
The Indonesian Navy did offer escorts two years ago for vessels leaving certain ports to reduce the risk of piracy, but it found few takers. "Some people feel that if you have an escort, it advertises that you have a cargo on board worth stealing," Mr. Bowring said. "There is an advantage to anonymity." The piracy problem in Indonesian waters peaked in the late 1990's; police crackdowns ashore have reduced it somewhat since then.
More valuable than naval escorts, Mr. Bowring said, would be better navigational aids and ship-traffic control in the busy straits, which would allow more vessels to use them safely and reduce the risk posed by a single wreck in a bad spot.
There are alternative routes through Indonesia for ships headed from the Indian Ocean to the Pacific, but most are poorly marked for navigation by large tankers, and would greatly lengthen journey times.
Carriers said governments could also help by tightening security in ports. On Monday, the International Maritime Bureau, a watchdog group based in London, called for the approach-channels used by tankers reaching port to be declared off limits to other vessels. Yemeni officials said on Wednesday that they would enforce a 500-yard no-entry radius around tankers loading at Ash Shihr, its southern port, and would patrol the area with gunboats and helicopters. "There was security there before, but now it's much more intense," said Yemen's deputy oil minister, Abdulmalik Alama.
On Thursday, maritime insurers tripled the premiums they charge tankers passing through Yemeni waters, raising concerns in the shipping industry that further increases could be on the way for other regions as well. For a typical supertanker carrying about two million barrels of oil, Mr. Banga, the Asian shipping company vice chairman, said the rate rose to $450,000 a trip from $150,000, adding about 15 cents a barrel to the delivered cost of the oil -- and that is just for the ship; the cargo is insured separately.
Dieter Berg, manager of the marine division at Munich Re, a major reinsurance company, said that for the moment the higher premiums appeared to be confined to high-risk areas, and rates have not risen for ships in waters thought to be safer, like the North Sea.
"If we come to the conclusion that this is no longer a localized problem, but a global one, then premiums across the board should begin to rise," Mr. Berg said.
Mr. Horrocks and others said that oil and shipping companies are hoping that the attack on the Limburg will turn out to be an isolated incident. But they are not counting on it. 
"I'm afraid that is a fact of life at the moment," said Michael Raper, the head of security services for Europe, the Middle East and Africa at Kroll Associates, a leading security consulting firm. "It's not a particularly easy one to deal with."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ships anchored off Singapore. After the attack in Yemen on a French tanker, oil and shipping executives have been taking precautions. Without help from governments, they say, the tankers are easy marks. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); MARINE TANKERS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); NAVIES (78%); MARITIME PIRACY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); OIL SPILLS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); BULK SHIPPING (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); INSURANCE (75%); OCEAN MARINE INSURANCE (75%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (75%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (74%); EXECUTIVES (69%); RADAR SYSTEMS (60%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; TANKERS; TERRORISM; INSURANCE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LIMBURG (TANKER); BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES 

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA; BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (94%); RED SEA (79%) YEMEN (94%); INDONESIA (94%); MALAYSIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%) GULF OF ADEN; YEMEN; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



558 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Strong Dollar Runs Into Renewed Resistance 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
To hear many American manufacturers complain, the biggest competitive threat is not China or South Korea and certainly not Europe. It is the seemingly unsinkable value of the American dollar.
 Already wounded by the global economic slowdown and a severe drop in spending on new equipment and factories, American manufacturers say their plight has been made far worse by a dollar that is still more than 20 percent higher against other big currencies than it was five years ago. 
 The government offered new ammunition today for the manufacturers' argument. The trade deficit, which has been the highest in the world for years, surged an additional 10 percent in August, to a record $38.5 billion. The jump was much higher than most economists had expected, though analysts cautioned that the immediate reasons were unrelated to the dollar. 
The high dollar has raised prices of American exports and lowered the prices of imports from Europe, Asia and Latin America. The United States trade deficit has ballooned, not only against China and South Korea but Canada and Europe.
"We just cannot compete against the Canadian dollar," said Judith Jewell, owner of Olympian Precast, a small company in Redmond, Wash., that produces custom-order concrete pillars and facades.
Since 1997, when the Canadian dollar began a long slide against the American currency, Ms. Jewell has been underbid by Canadian rivals on jobs like a federal building in Seattle and office buildings at Microsoft. Her sales have slumped to $3.5 million from $5.5 million, and she has reduced her work force to 47 from 62.
Manufacturing groups have complained for years about the high dollar, but they have become more strident lately as a result of the persistent slump in industrial production.
The National Association of Manufacturers has lobbied the Treasury to back away from a "strong dollar" policy, complaining that the dollar amounts to a penalty on products made in the United States.
"There is no question that the strength of the dollar has made life difficult for exporters," said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics. In addition, he said, the high dollar has squeezed profit margins as American companies have struggled to match lower prices on imports.
The disagreement, and it is a huge one, is about what to do. Low import prices have been a crucial reason for low inflation and for the continued strength in consumer spending. 
Globalization has made the cost-benefit calculation much more complex because American manufacturers from Whirlpool to Compaq import a huge percentage of their components from overseas.
"We are currency neutral," said Ken Holland, a spokesman for Deere & Company, the farm equipment manufacturer. Deere, based in Moline, Ill., has doubled its overseas work force over the last five years, to about 16,000 from fewer than 8,000.
According to Robert Z. Lawrence, professor of trade at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, about 40 percent of goods imported into the United States come from subsidiaries of American companies.
Such complexities are one reason Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill has dismissed repeated pleas from industry lobbyists to encourage a mild decline in the dollar.
Mr. O'Neill has sent mixed signals about his views. He has generally argued that market forces should determine the currency's value, but he has also said that a strong dollar merely reflects the strength of the American economy and the eagerness of foreigners to invest here.
"The weight of historical evidence shows that those who have tried to fix underlying economic problems with protectionist measures -- artificially depreciating the currency is one of those -- actually weaken their own economy," he said at a conference in Tokyo earlier this year.
Mr. O'Neill was unperturbed when the dollar declined modestly against the euro and the Japanese yen, but he was equally sanguine when the dollar stabilized this summer.
That position is not much different from that of Robert E. Rubin, Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton.
Although the Treasury has the legal authority to intervene in currency markets, many economists and currency traders are skeptical that the government can do much more than nudge the currency in a direction it was already heading.
The dollar's powerful rise during the late 1990's stemmed in large part from the huge inflow of foreign investment, from stocks and bonds to long-term investment in factories and equipment.
Direct investment from overseas has dropped sharply in the last year, but the dollar has remained relatively strong because economic growth in Europe and Japan is even weaker than in the United States.
"The European economy is moribund, and Japan is a complete disaster," said Mr. Shepherdson of High Frequency Economics. "If you are looking for return on assets, the U.S. is the place to be."
Some argue that the Bush administration could have a significant impact simply by backing away from rhetorical support for a strong dollar.
"The Treasury Department ought not to say anything about exchange rates," said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers. "We would be happy with letting market forces work."
In principle, that is the Treasury Department's view, as well. The problem is that Mr. O'Neill sometimes sounds more hawkish than he is, for example, when he argues that a strong dollar simply reflects the strength of the economy.
Some executives are also convinced that Mr. O'Neill has strengthened the dollar by tolerating efforts by the Japanese government to promote Japanese exports by keeping the yen artificially low.
"If you go and talk to friends in Japan, they will tell you the administration is not fully behind its statements" about deferring to market forces, said G. Mustafa Mohatarem, chief economist for General Motors. "They are willing to give Japan some flexibility on their currency."
Treasury officials insist they have criticized Japanese currency intervention, though they acknowledge that Mr. O'Neill's remarks have been mild and relatively seldom. 
Big companies like Deere, which has had declining exports but has increased its manufacturing overseas, are adept at shifting strategies to compensate for the dollar.
But for small companies like Olympia Precast, not far from the border with Canada, changes are more difficult. "People tell me we should set up a factory in Canada," Ms. Jewell, Olympia's owner, said. "Well, that's not really what I'm about."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The strong dollar is being felt by exporters. A freighter loading in Portland, Ore. (Associated Press)(pg. C1); Shippers of all types have had an abundance of cheap foreign cargo as the dollar has remained strong. (Associated Press)(pg. C2) Graph: "The Strong Dollar's Downside"The rise in the dollar's value against other currencies has made exports of American products less competitive, swelling the country's trade deficit. By remaining strong through the downturn, the dollar has also contributed to manufacturing's recent woes. TRADE-WEIGHTED DOLLARGraph shows the price-adjusted broad dollar index from 1992-2002. TRADE BALANCEGraph shows trade balance (seasonally adjusted, monthly) from 1992-2002. MANUFACTURING OUTPUTGraph shows the manufacturing output (seasonally adjusted, 1992=100) from 1992-2002. (Sources: Federal Reserve; Census Bureau; Haver Analytics)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); IMPORT PRICES (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); LOBBYING (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (65%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); AGRICULTURE (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CURRENCY 

COMPANY: DEERE & CO (80%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

TICKER: DE (NYSE) (80%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333112 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTOR & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3524 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTORS & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT (80%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (80%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (94%); CHINA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



559 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Fed Mood Seems to Be Shifting Against aRate Cut 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve, which flooded the economy with money by sharply lowering interest rates last year as growth collapsed, appears much more unwilling to fend off another potential tailspin today.
 In the last few days, a host of senior Fed officials have made clear that they think the economy is more robust than it appears to most Americans. 
 Industrial production may be down; job growth may be almost nonexistent; and corporations may be too nervous to invest in new factories and equipment. But at least for the moment, the message out of the Fed seems to be that the anxiety is overdone and that there is no compelling need to juice up the economy by reducing interest rates yet again. 
"If we could all just settle down -- both the public and the private sector -- and try to get the uncertainty level diminished, the markets will take care of themselves," William McDonough, president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank and the most important of the 12 regional bank presidents who help set monetary policy, said at a conference in Manhattan on Thursday.
Jack Guynn, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, declared earlier this week that lower interest rates have "nothing at all" to do with the readiness of companies to start investing in new factories and adding more workers.
And other members of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy committee have echoed the view that the economic recovery, while still fragile, is nonetheless clearly under way.
"I think the probability of a so-called double-dip recession is relatively low," Gary Stern, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, said in a speech on Tuesday.
The tone of those remarks contrasts strongly with the impression left after the most recent meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, on Sept. 24.
At that meeting, 2 of the 12 voting members publicly dissented from the majority and argued that the weak economy was in need of a lift in the form of even lower interest rates. In a nod to pessimists, the Federal Reserve also took heed of the "considerable uncertainty" and said the risks were "weighted mainly to the conditions that may produce economic weakness."
Many analysts say the meeting hinted at a deep disagreement within the Federal Reserve. But a growing number say the debate is not just between those who want easier money and those who do not.
The board may also have another camp, whose members want to take a firmer line, actually discouraging hints that a rate cut is likely if conditions deteriorate much more.
Rarely have analysts and investors been as divided and uncertain as they are now about the prospects for the economy. 
Most analysts and government officials say the economy grew rapidly in the quarter that ended Sept. 30, perhaps at an annual rate of 4 percent. The growth was powered by low interest rates. Homeowners refinanced their mortgages at lower rates, often taking out home equity loans to buy cars and furniture. Construction of new homes surged, as did the housing prices in general.
But most analysts say they believe that growth will be slower in the last quarter of this year, because both corporations and consumers have become more nervous. 
William C. Dudley, chief United States economist at Goldman, Sachs, argues that the economy is far weaker than most people expected a few months ago and that the Fed must cut rates.
Mr. Dudley, who predicted in early August that the Fed would cut rates in the near future, says he is staying with his prediction. "I would say the economy since then has evolved more closely to our view of the world," he said.
Janet Yellen, professor of economics at the University of California at Berkeley and a former adviser to President Bill Clinton, said deep uncertainty provides a good case for cutting rates. "The decline in the stock market and the impact of corporate accounting scandals is taking a huge toll on the economy," she said. "Some people say the Fed should save its ammunition for later. I think that is completely erroneous."
Other analysts argue that the economy is in much better shape than the mood of corporate executives would suggest. Just as the Federal Reserve was early in supplying money when things began to look bad, it is now early to recognize that conditions are getting better.
"There is good reason to think that the stage is set for the most unbelievable performance," said James Glassman, economist at J. P. Morgan. By not acting, he said, the Fed will look as if it had the courage to sit tight when everybody else was panicking.
But the most important decision maker is Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, and he has been conspicuously silent since the meeting last month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF MINNEAPOLIS (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (83%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) ANDREWS, EDMUND L; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



560 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-7

U.S. Seeks to Build Consensus on North Korea
American officials opened a diplomatic drive across Asia and Europe to build international pressure on North Korea to abandon its nuclear weapons program. A6

Japan's plan for billions of dollars in aid to North Korea's rickety economy is being shelved in light of its nuclear weapons program, which violates a series of signed agreements. A6

Indonesian Suspect in Hospital
The militant Muslim cleric who was to have been questioned by the Indonesian police was instead hospitalized. The illness of the cleric, Abu Bakar Bashir, was met with great skepticism, and there were conflicting accounts of what was ailing him. A8

Iraq Resolution Debate
The United States and France moved closer to agreement on a draft resolution to force Iraq to disarm. But French officials are worried about the language that would give Washington authorization to go to war. A8

Politician Killed in Moscow
A sniper equipped with a silencer shot and killed one of Moscow's regional governors and tried to shoot the province's vice governor. A4

European Pact Criticized
The president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, whose office is meant to enforce the 1997 Stability and Growth Pact, called the pact "stupid." Many economists argue that the pact leaves governments unable to jump-start stalled economies. A3

Ireland to Vote on Europe
Irish voters will decide in a referendum whether to approve the Treaty of Nice, which sets rules for redrawing Europe's east-west divide. A3

Israel Pulls Out of Jenin
The Israeli Army has moved out of the West Bank city of Jenin, surrounding it and digging a trench to prevent militants from sneaking out. A5

Troop Pullout Jolts Congo
The United Nations has persuaded all foreign armies to leave eastern Congo. They are being replaced by local militias. The departures are bringing more disorder than stability. A7

NATIONAL A9-14

Vatican Tells U.S. Bishops To Rewrite Policy on Abuse
The Vatican failed to endorse a stringent new policy by American bishops to combat child sexual abuse by priests, saying that parts of it needed to be rewritten to make it conform with the laws of the Roman Catholic Church. A1

While victims of sexually abusive priests expressed despair and outrage at the Vatican's failure to endorse the American bishops' zero tolerance policy, many bishops, priests and even some laypeople privately breathed a sigh of relief. A1

Sniper Disrupts School Life
More than two weeks after a sniper began terrorizing suburban Washington, schools are locked down and preschoolers are spending playtime in the auditorium and on trampolines in the hallway rather than outside. A1

A tip to detectives led to the seizure of a white rental box truck that contained a spent shell casing, the Montgomery County police said. A10

Unusual Politics in Hawaii
Citing a sour economy and a rash of scandals involving local politicians, voters in Hawaii will hold two special elections to fill the seat of Representative Patsy Mink, a Democrat who died last month but remains on the ballot. A12

Daschle Points Finger at Bush
With Congress leaving the Capitol for a last bout of campaigning, Senator Tom Daschle, the majority leader, blamed President Bush for a "very disappointing Congress" and asserted the nation was in worse shape than when Mr. Bush took office. A13

Charges Filed in Wisconsin
Prosecutors filed criminal charges accusing Republicans in the Wisconsin Assembly of illegally running campaign operations from state offices and using government employees to do so. A9

Safety Measure Ruled Invalid
A federal judge in Washington struck down rules that required drug companies to test their products in children, stating that the rule exceeds the Food and Drug Administration's statutory authority. A9

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

New York Changes Rules For Mental Patients
In response to a Justice Department review, officials at state psychiatric hospitals in New York ordered social workers to stop releasing patients to locked units in private nursing homes, ending a 6-year-old practice that was supposed to help scale back the state's costly psychiatric system but has raised civil-rights concerns. A1

Louima Lawyers End Squabble
The legal dispute over $3 million in legal fees from the Abner Louima abuse case stopped as the two sides negotiated a settlement. B1

State Police Head Steps Down
Joseph J. Santiago, brought in seven months ago to restore credibility to a police agency at the center of the debate over racial profiling, stepped down as superintendent of the New Jersey State Police. B1

Religion Journal B6

ARTS & IDEAS B7-18

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Science and Security
The presidents of the National Academies of Science said that the Bush administration was going too far in hiding some science out of fear that it could aid terrorists. A8

Shuttle Crew Returns to Earth
The space shuttle Atlantis and its crew of six returned to Earth after an 11-day construction mission to the International Space Station. A11

OBITUARIES A15

SPORTS D1-7

Baseball Great Is Charged
Kirby Puckett, 41, a member of the Baseball Hall of Fame who starred with the Minnesota Twins from 1984 to 1995, was charged with dragging a woman into a restaurant bathroom in Eden Prairie, Minn., last month and grabbing her breast. D4

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

S.E.C. May Get Less
President Bush signed legislation last summer to increase the budget of the Securities and Exchange Commission for policing corporate America. Now the White House wants to reduce that budget to $568 million from $776 million. A1

Brokerage Deal Considered
Prudential and Wachovia are discussing a joint venture to merge their brokerage and research businesses. The companies envision a brokerage that cannot be compromised by investment banking. C1

Stocks on a Two-Week Roll
The Dow and S.& P. 500 have risen 10.5 percent and the Nasdaq 13 percent -- one of the better two-week performances since World War II. C4

Executive Falsified Resume
Ronald L. Zarrella, the chief executive of Bausch & Lomb, admitted that his resume contained false information about his education. C2

Business Digest C1

EDUCATION

Disparity in Aid for Schools
Schools in New York City boroughs with less poverty tend to receive more federal aid for each child. A1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Squabbling over the homeless; bring back Hetch Hetchy; Baltimore's homegrown terrorism; a miracle at Assisi.

Column: Bill Keller.

Bridge B14
TV Listings B17
Crossword B14
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DISARMAMENT (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ARMIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); APPROVALS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); CHILD ABUSE (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (65%); REFERENDUMS (64%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (60%); GOVERNORS (54%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: ROMANO PRODI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); HOLY SEE (93%); INDONESIA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (92%); IRELAND (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



561 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: Bring Back Hetch Hetchy? 

 BODY:
In 1913, in defiance of established law and the wishes of millions of Americans, Congress foolishly approved the construction of a dam and an eight-mile-long reservoir in a lush valley known by its Indian name, Hetch Hetchy, in the northwest corner of Yosemite National Park. The dream of righting this wrong has never really died. Now it's back, in the form of a proposal by Environmental Defense and other conservation groups for a feasibility study to see whether it would be economically and hydrologically plausible to knock down the dam, drain the reservoir, uncover 1,900 acres of valley floor and restore what the naturalist John Muir once described as a "grand landscape garden, one of nature's rarest and most precious mountain temples." 
 Hetch Hetchy, once the largest reservoir in California, catches water from the High Sierra and sends it along to San Francisco. A lot of Californians think the idea of draining the reservoir is daft, including Senator Dianne Feinstein, a former mayor of San Francisco. However misguided the original decision, she has said, the reservoir is vital to San Francisco's water supply. 
 And so it is. But the environmentalists point out that the city and state are already talking about spending $3.6 billion to fix the pipes and associated plumbing that deliver Hetch Hetchy's water to the city. For that kind of money, they suggest, existing reservoirs can be enlarged, or a new one built, to replace Hetch Hetchy.
In 1913, over the course of the year, this page ran six thunderous editorials opposing the reservoir and unsuccessfully urging President Woodrow Wilson to intercede. In the uninhibited vernacular of the time, the editorials described the scheme as "sordid," the commercial interests that supported it as "grabbers of water and power," and California's politicians as "trans-Mississippians" who "care nothing for matters of natural beauty and taste." Given this editorial pedigree, the least we can do is endorse a feasibility study. It may well lead to something remarkable. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAMS & RESERVOIRS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (78%); APPROVALS (78%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (77%); MOUNTAINS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%) WATER; DAMS AND DIKES; EDITORIALS 

PERSON: DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); CALIFORNIA; YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK; HETCH HETCHY VALLEY (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



562 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: THE 2002 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATS; 
Hawaii Democrats Reeling After Scandals and a Death

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: HONOLULU, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
When the voters of Hawaii awake the morning after the Nov. 5 election, they are likely to find they have done two extraordinary things: elect a live Republican to the governor's office and a dead Democrat to Congress.
 Such is the state of politics in Hawaii this year. 
 After dominating the state for 40 years, Democrats are in meltdown. Because of a sour economy and a rash of scandals involving local politicians, voters are disgusted with the incumbent party and seem in a mood to try something, anything, different.
"The Democratic Party is imploding," said Ira Rohter, a professor of political science at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. "Right now, there is no Democratic Party here, just a lot of feuding factions. It's like watching a Three Stooges skit." 
Nowhere is the Democrats' disarray more evident than in the unseemly free-for-all to replace Representative Patsy Mink, who died on Sept. 28 of viral pneumonia brought on by chickenpox. Her name will still appear on the ballot, and she is expected to defeat the Republican challenger, a right-wing state representative, Bob McDermott. The state will then hold not one but two special elections to fill her seat.
On Nov. 30, voters will choose among 38 declared candidates -- 10 of them Democrats -- to serve the remaining five weeks of Mrs. Mink's term. After wavering for two weeks, John Mink, Mrs. Mink's husband, declared his candidacy this week and is thought likely to win a decisive sympathy vote. But he says he is not interested in serving a full term. 
On Jan. 4, if Mrs. Mink wins on Nov. 5, another election will be held for the vacant seat in the 108th Congress. A half-dozen Democrats have expressed interest in that race.
The Democratic Party has done nothing to bring order to the chaos by anointing a preferred candidate, saying party rules and state tradition bar them from intervening.
The situation would seem to provide a ripe opening for a Republican to grab a seat in Congress, but the party's candidate, Mr. McDermott, has been disavowed by Linda Lingle, the Republican candidate for governor and a former state Republican chairwoman, and other officials.
Mr. McDermott, a businessman and former marine, said his main hope was that he would slip in because the Democrats were engaged in a circular firing squad. But he admitted it was a long shot. "I'm the greatest thing since sliced bread," he said. "But what can I do? I'm running against a ghost." 
Gov. Benjamin J. Cayetano said that he could not unite the Democratic Party around a single candidate even if he wanted to. Democrats in Hawaii take orders from no one, not him and not the party's senior statesman, Senator Daniel K. Inouye. Mr. Cayetano surmised that the Democratic candidate for governor, Lt. Gov. Mazie Hirono, or her running mate, Matt Matsunaga, might seek the seat in Congress if they lose the race for governor.
"It's like organizing cats," Mr. Cayetano sighed.
A sign of the Democrats' discontent could be seen on Thursday night in Waipahu, a largely working-class Filipino suburb of Honolulu that has always voted reliably with the Democrats. But nearly a thousand residents of Waipahu showed up at the high school gym for a raucous rally for Ms. Lingle, who has been hammering the Democrats for mismanagement of the government and an array of corruption scandals.
Venus Agpaoa, who emigrated from the Philippines in 1970 and has consistently voted Democratic, said she was more than ready to knock the dominant party from its perch. "You can't make a change unless you change the people who made the state the way it is now," she said.
Ms. Lingle, 49, a former mayor of Maui who lost the governorship to Mr. Cayetano by a narrow margin four years ago, appears poised to reap the benefits of the voters' unhappiness. She is in some ways an unlikely candidate for dragon-slayer -- a divorced Jewish Republican from the mainland who supports abortion rights. But analysts say that, because of the Democrats' ineptitude and the lackluster campaign of her opponent, Ms. Hirono, the race is Ms. Lingle's to lose.
The corruption scandals involving Democrats appear to have made voters weary of the party. In just the last year, two members of the Honolulu City Council have been convicted of misusing campaign funds and engaging in a kickback scheme. The former Council chairman was suspended from practicing law for lying about a hit-and-run accident. A state senator pleaded guilty to tax evasion and campaign finance violations.
The mayor of Honolulu, Jeremy Harris, is under grand jury investigation for his campaign fund-raising, involving contributions in excess of legal limits. Mr. Harris, who was the front-runner for the Democratic nomination for governor until he dropped out of the race because of the investigation, says the charges are groundless.
One result of the scandals is that traditional donors to the Democrats have been sitting on their checkbooks, leaving Ms. Hirono in precarious financial shape. The state's influential unions have been stingy with their money and their volunteers. The state teacher's union is withholding its endorsement because its members are still furious with Governor Cayetano for his lack of support during a three-week teacher's strike last year.
Ms. Lingle has raised nearly twice as much money as Ms. Hirono and has a well-greased political operation to show for it. Various polls have put her about 10 percentage points ahead.
"They have no momentum," Ms. Lingle said of the Democrats. "They're dead in the water."
She added that she did not see any sign that the unions would rally around the Democrats, although the A.F.L.-C.I.O. is sponsoring a visit by former President Bill Clinton on Ms. Hirono's behalf.
"That could backfire," Ms. Lingle said. "He's not only a polarizing figure, but he reminds the voters of all the ethical lapses of the Democrats."
Ms. Lingle is preparing to unveil her secret weapon next week, an endorsement by Konishiki, a grand champion sumo wrestler from Hawaii who is immensely popular here. On Wednesday, he shot a television advertisement for Ms. Lingle, lending his 600 pounds to her campaign. The commercial begins appearing next week.
For her part, Ms. Hirono, 54, is emphasizing her 22 years of public service and trying to turn the ethical tables on Ms. Lingle. She says that as mayor of Maui, Ms. Lingle failed to stop a grading operation by land developers that damaged Maalaea Harbor and cost taxpayers $300,000. She also said Ms. Lingle hired her former husband to represent her in a lawsuit filed against the city and steered business to an auto dealership owned by her father.
"If we're going to talk about ethics, why don't we talk about these lapses?" Ms. Hirono said.
The differences between the two candidates on issues seem relatively minor. Both are for diversifying the Hawaii economy away from its dependence on tourism and both advocate reform of the state-run school system. They differ on some environmental laws and consumer measures, but Ms. Hirono is basing her appeal largely on her service in the State Legislature and the lieutenant governor's office. She also not-so-subtly reminds people of her Japanese heritage (she emigrated with her single mother at age 8) and her up-by-the-bootstraps life story.
"Things are changing in Hawaii," Ms. Hirono said. "My question is, What kind of change, and who are you going to trust to make those changes?"
That is exactly the issue that many voters are struggling with today.
"We need a change," said Gerrie Griffin, 64, the assistant manager of Shooter's Bar and Restaurant, a few blocks from Waikiki beach. "It's time Hawaii stopped being a one-party state. Democrats keep going to jail, and it just seems there are so many dishonest people in politics."
Mrs. Griffin, who is half-Japanese, said she had been a Democrat all her life but was thinking of voting for Ms. Lingle. "It couldn't possibly get any worse," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Benjamin J. Cayetano of Hawaii says creating Democratic unity in the state is "like organizing cats."; In a state where Democrats have long been in power, the lieutenant governor of Hawaii, Mazie Hirono, at left, is trailing in her campaign for governor against Linda Lingle, right, a Republican. (Photographs by Cory Lum for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (77%); SCANDALS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); CHICKEN POX (71%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%); PNEUMONIA (53%) GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (57%) HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) 

PERSON: LINDA LINGLE (79%); MAZIE K HIRONO (78%); DANIEL INOUYE (58%) HIRONO, MAZIE (LT GOV); LINGLE, LINDA; BRODER, JOHN M; MINK, PATSY T (REP) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) HAWAII

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



563 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 2443 words

HEADLINE: THE 2002 CAMPAIGN; 
Golisano's Vision of Government: Leaner, More Efficient and Less Invasive

 BODY:
 Following are excerpts from an interview yesterday with Tom Golisano, the Independence Party candidate for governor, conducted by several editors and reporters of The New York Times. More excerpts are online at nytimes.com/nyregion.

Q. Let's start with the budget. . . . Outline for us $5 billion in savings.

A. . . . One of the areas, to get specific . . . is we have some areas of our state budget to me that are just absolutely definitely not positive to economic development. And the one I'm going to talk about is Medicaid. There's areas of Medicaid that should be very, very concerning to the residents of this state. . . . And No. 1, I think, is we have about 2.5 million people in this state that are using Medicaid as their primary insurance. Now you can argue all day long is -- of course, there are a lot of people that need Medicaid as a primary insurance. But the question mark is, have we drawn off, taken the line too high? And have we got too many people under that umbrella?
I know in New York City alone in the last 13 months there's been 400,000 new people signed up for Medicaid. And people have caught on, believe it or not, because we are in the human resource business. People have caught on to the fact that they can use Medicaid as their primary health insurance and not have to buy it on their own. This is an obvious result of too liberal an attitude about who can use Medicaid and how far they can use it. . . .
. . .

Q. . . . You would restrict more, tighten qualifications for Medicaid?

A. Absolutely. Yeah. . . . What we've done is create this situation where our attitude has become so liberal and so many people have come under this umbrella, that the taxpayers are faced with the fact that not only do most of us have to pay our own health insurance, but because of the liberalness of this Medicaid program we're paying it for millions of other people.
Now, certainly, having said that, we know many, many people need it. . . .
Education is always the second part of it. Because that's the second largest expenditure for the state, I believe. Some people would say the more money we can throw at education the better off we are. In some situations that may be true, but what we have in New York State in my opinion is we have the best of worlds and the worst of worlds. . . .
So what do we do about that? Well, obviously, I don't think the governor has done anything about it. Carl McCall's answer to these issues is to throw more money at it. He threw out a figure that was so outrageous to me I just couldn't believe it. And that was if he had another $8 billion he would give it all to education. He says we've got to reduce class size. Well, if you do the arithmetic on class size, class size is not the issue. Something else is the issue. Is it the curriculum? Is it the facilities that we're teaching these young people in? By aggregating hundreds of children from economic and cultural poverty, is that creating a problem? Is it our school day? Is it our school year? I am sure there's a lot of answers and a lot of things that can be improved. But what's stopping us from doing it? The special interest is stopping us from doing it. And that's the teachers' union.

Q. Would you spend less? Are you saying you'd spend less?

A. No. I'm not saying that at all. . . .

Q. So your point of view is that the funding level right now is appropriate but it's not being used in the right way?

A. I think in many of our urban districts we're wasting a lot of money, not because what we're trying to achieve is a waste but because we're not being effective.

Q. But you're not proposing actually cutting back?

A. No, of course not. But before I would just start throwing large amounts, more money at this problem at a state level, I'd say, "O.K., school districts, what are you doing to become more efficient, more effective, and get your results higher?"

Q. Do you have specific ideas about what the teachers' union should let the state do?

A. I think we should open up the school day. We have this double-edged situation where the school day ends at 2:30, 3:00, and many children are shifted into day care, different facilities, different administration and so forth. If we had an elongated school day we could save the transfer of those students, the cost of the additional administration and the cost of the additional facilities. . . .

Q. Well, if you're talking about opening up the school day through renegotiating union contracts, and getting productivity increases through changes in union contracts, where exactly does the governor fit in? Since the governor doesn't negotiate contracts with teachers?

A. Teachers' union controls an entire financial environment relative to the state. The state, the governor or the Legislature can't come in and say, "O.K. teachers' union or administrators, we want to change the school day." It's not just the governor alone it's the Legislature, too.

Q. O.K. But I'm still a little bit fuzzy about whether you would cut education aid. Do you think that there's a possibility to save money on education aid?

A. What I'm saying is, before we increase the levels of aid, we ought to start taking a look at our effectiveness and efficiency at what we're accomplishing, because throwing money at this problem . . . historically never solves a problem. And that's what I think George Pataki and especially Carl McCall are advocating that we do. . . .

Q. . . . Are there other places in the state government that you would cut in order to get this spending under control?

A. Well, one of the things that you have to look at, of course, is the state payroll. Now, compared to Medicaid and education, I don't think there's as huge an opportunity there. But if you look at the number of employees in New York State on a per-100,000 basis of population, we have a much higher percentage of employees at a much higher pay rate. . . .

Q. So how many heads do you think you could get out of the state payroll and still not affect the delivery of services?

A. . . . If we couldn't reduce the number of employees by 15 or 20 percent, I'd be surprised. . . .

Q. I have a follow-up question on Medicaid . . . If you're restricting people from that Medicaid, what is there to make up for people who don't have the insurance?

A. O.K., remember, this is a question of degree. I said earlier there are many people that absolutely need Medicaid and we need to provide it. But what's happened is the top line has gotten gray. . . .

Q. Do you know how many people you're talking about you believe you could cut without ----

A. Well, I know there's probably 2.5 million people on New York State Medicaid now using it as a primary health insurance. I wouldn't be surprised if we couldn't cut at least 20 percent of them. . . .

Q. You've been running some radio ads upstate suggesting that you would send children to college for free if they can get a B average. That the governor signed legislation to provide state tuition and scholarships to undocumented immigrants. What would your policy be toward undocumented immigrants who now receive a lot of state services without having to prove citizenship?

A. As a taxpayer of this state it makes me unhappy to think that we have an aggressive liberal policy toward people that are not here on a legal basis. . . .

Q. The B or better plan -- opportunity scholarship initiative. You're talking about shifting the lottery money out of the general fund and devoting it to this program.

A. That's right.

Q. Sir, can I go back to the lottery money?

A. Sure.

Q. Because I'm a little confused by that idea. You said it's $1.9 billion coming in in the lottery. Right?

A. Between $1.8 and $1.9 billion, net revenue, to the state.

Q. O.K. So I'm just thinking of this in terms of accounting. So you would take that lottery money and you would designate it for the scholarship program that you proposed?

A. Yes.

Q. Isn't that a growth in the state budget?

A. It's not having as much funds available for other things. You're absolutely correct. And that's why, as I said earlier, if I'm governor, that we have to go after the expense side. And the Medicaid thing, the state payroll and all of those things have to come down before we could fully implement this thing.

Q. So you would designate that money for the scholarship program and then make appropriate cuts to compensate for its loss.

A. Absolutely. Absolutely.

Q. You're talking about an earthquake in Albany terms. I mean if you're ----

A. Isn't that wonderful? You think it's time?

Q. Well, I mean I think it'd be fun to cover.

A. I think it would be exciting, too.

Q. You know that you're facing some entrenched interests in the Senate and the Assembly.

A. Really? I didn't know that.

Q. What leverage do you have? And how would you use it? I mean how are you going to get Shelly Silver and Joe Bruno to go along with the executive?

A. That's a great question. Well, first of all, if I get elected governor, I mean that'll shake the foundation a bit. O.K.? Because it'll be the realization that most people in New York State realize there's something wrong in Albany, that it's dysfunctional. And they want it changed. O.K. Beyond that, when we get to a particular issue, and you can pick one if you'd like, the opportunity for me to go to the public, because I have the resources to do it and I'm willing to use the bully pulpit to do it and I'm not obligated to the special interests, I would just go beyond them and go to the public. . . .

Q. On a completely different subject, the rebuilding of the Trade Center downtown is largely a state matter. Do you have personal visions of what ought to be there?

A. . . . There is no question about it, that thing is as important to our history as Pearl Harbor was. Secondly, it's also very vitally important to New York City economically. So I am in the camp of let's build an appropriate memorial for part of the land . . . and then devote the rest of it to economic recovery and economic development. You know what? I think the federal government should contribute to the construction of that memorial. . . .

Q. What can a governor do to bring those jobs back to New York?

A. . . . New York State has 300,000-plus businesses. What we have to do is create a better environment for those 300,000 businesses for two reasons. We need to have them grow. And we need to have more of them formed. Because we know most job creation now is in the small-business environment and not in the large-business environment. So how do you do that? Well, you do it by making New York State a better place to live economically. We have to bring taxes down. . . . The second thing we have to go after, we still have the third highest, fourth highest workers' compensation rates in the country. And the only reason that is is because we're too liberal on the benefits program. . . .
Third, health insurance. The cost of being an employer in this state for health insurance, every year double-digit growth rates. And we have among the highest rates because of those mandates, those surcharges, etc.
And the fourth thing is the bureaucratic process. . . .

Q. A couple of social issue questions. On gay rights . . .

A. My attitude on gay rights or any of those other issues, I believe the government should have as least impact as impossible. And its No. 1 responsibility is to provide parity and equality to people.

Q. You know a lot of prosecutors love the Rockefeller drug laws. They use them in a way to get a leverage over people they arrest.

A. Yes, I know.

Q. What are you planning -- why fix the system if it ain't broke? Crime is down. Why do this?

A. . . . We've got to find new ways to fight this drug war. The Rockefeller laws were set up to be an end-all. We'll put them away forever. We have people going to jail for 15 years to life at $30,000 to $40,000 a year for having up to four ounces of a substance. That, to me, the constitutional theory that the crime must befit the punishment or the punishment must befit the crime, certainly doesn't seem to apply. . . . So I'm on the camp that says the Rockefeller drug laws are too harsh and they should be repealed. Do we continue to fight drugs? Absolutely. It's a scourge on our society. And we've got to do everything we can do. Do I believe that more effort should be pushed toward prevention and treatment rather than incarceration? Yes, I do.

Q. Sir, we have another example of a man who funded his own campaign and went to government in which he says he is free of the special interests. And he is also facing a huge budget problem right now and having to make very tough choices, not beholden to any group but still having to cut, what looks like will be cuts. And he's also switched and said now he's going to raise taxes. Are there any lessons in that? Or is there anything that you see in that that you are using to guide your own life?

A. I think the first thing is a major difference between myself and Michael Bloomberg as relates to political parties. Michael funded his own campaign, but he's part of the Republican Party. And a number of the -- obviously other members of the Republican Party are very dependent on special interests. Whereas I don't have that condition or that environment. . . .

Q. So would you compare yourself more then to Ross Perot than to Mike Bloomberg?

A. The only person I compare myself to is Tom Golisano.

Q. Well, tell us who that guy is a little bit. People in New York don't know you very well. Leaders have distinctive personalities as leaders. . . .

A. You want me to give you a quick rundown of myself?

Q. Sure. . . . What should people in New York expect if you show up in January in the State House?

A. I don't think I've seen a political candidate that understands financial statements like I do. I'm very economically and results-oriented. I really believe that government should stay out of our lives as much as possible. I don't think we should look to government to solve all of our problems. I really believe in parity and equality and preach it at our company. . . .

Q. . . . How do you approach governing? . . .

A. No. I'm going to tell you, the first day out is, first day in office is, there are many components to state government, the first questions I'm going to ask is: What's our level of satisfaction of our customers? How do we improve it? What's it cost us? And how are we going to save money? That's what you do in a daily routine in business and that's, in my opinion, is how the government should function.

The Candidates
This report is the second resulting from interviews with leading candidates for governor conducted by reporters and editors of The New York Times. Gov. George E. Pataki has said he will not participate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); TUITION FEES (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); LIBERALISM (69%); HUMAN RESOURCES (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICAID; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; TUITION 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES; STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: GOLISANO, TOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



564 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: THE 2002 CAMPAIGN: THE INDEPENDENT; 
Golisano Proposes Stern Measures to Close Budget Gap and Avoid Tax Rise

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

 BODY:
Tom Golisano, the Independence Party candidate for governor, said yesterday that he would close the state's looming budget deficit by pushing some people off Medicaid, limiting others from signing up and holding the line on financing for education.
 He said stern measures were needed to avert tax increases that he said would block economic revitalization. Serious budget reduction must start with Medicaid and education because they are the state's two costliest programs, he said. But, he said, such proposals are "not going to make a lot of people happy." 
 In a 90-minute interview with editors and reporters of The New York Times, Mr. Golisano, a Rochester billionaire who is financing his own campaign, discussed with unusual detail proposals to cut popular programs. 
His opponents, Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican, and H. Carl McCall, a Democrat, have offered few hints of how they would close a budget gap that could exceed $5 billion next year. Mr. Pataki has said he would make the government operate more efficiently and Mr. McCall has said he would convene a panel of experts.
Mr. Golisano, 60, also promised to bring an earthquake to Albany with a no-nonsense, corporate executive's approach that is intolerant of back-room dealing and political quid pro quos.
If legislative leaders stonewall him -- he needs legislative support for many of his ideas, including changing the Medicaid rules -- he said he would take his case to the public with a media campaign, like the television commercials he is running in his bid for office.
In his third run for governor, a Times poll shows him at 16 percent, compared with 39 percent for Governor Pataki and 28 percent for Mr. McCall, the state comptroller. He garnered 8 percent of the vote when he ran in 1998.
Mr. Golisano said that trimming Medicaid, the medical insurance program for the poor and elderly, by 20 percent -- or about 560,000 people -- through more stringent qualification limits could close or seriously dent the deficit in the state budget next year. He said that in recent years the state has expanded services to people without worrying about the consequences to the budget.
"There are a lot of people that need Medicaid as a primary insurance," Mr. Golisano said. "But the question mark is, have we taken the line too high? And have we got too many people under that umbrella?"
Mr. Golisano said, however, he would press on with a plan he has been pushing through his campaign ads to grant free tuition at state colleges to high school seniors with a grade average of B or better. To finance that plan, he proposes using $1.4 billion from the state lottery now devoted to the general fund for school aid. It would be a de facto expansion of education spending, and Mr. Golisano vows to fill the gap from the redirected lottery money by cutting other parts of the budget.
Beyond fiscal matters, Mr. Golisano, who has said he never registered to vote with any major party, showed a divergence on social issues that made his ideology difficult to pin down. He would cut off illegal immigrants from state services. He would sign a state law outlawing discrimination against gays in housing and employment. He believes in gun rights and keeps a shotgun -- for skeet shooting, he says -- under his bed. He advocates the use of marijuana for medical purposes. He believes government is too intrusive in people's lives.
But the heart of his campaign is an unsparing approach to fixing the state budget, which he promises to review as severely as the ledgers at Paychex, the company he founded three decades ago, of which he is still the C.E.O.
"The first questions I'm going to ask are, 'What's our level of satisfaction of our customers?' " Mr. Golisano said, imagining his first day in office. " 'How do we improve it? What's it cost us? And how are we going to save money?' That's what you do in a daily routine in business and that's, in my opinion, how the government should function."
Medicaid, which serves nearly three million people, is the largest expense for state and local governments, at a total of more than $30 billion a year, and New York spends more on it than any other state.
Mr. McCall has also said he would take aim at Medicaid but, in an interview earlier this week, suggested that the problem was poor management of it through overpayments to providers. 
Michael McKeon, Mr. Pataki's chief spokesman, said Mr. Golisano's proposal would be disastrous for people without other ways to pay medical bills. "This is a guy who wants to slash health care services for people in need," he said.
Mr. Pataki tried to cut Medicaid during his first several years in office, with some success, only to reverse course. He has significantly increased health care spending, as he has forged a close alliance with 1199/S.E.I.U., the powerful hospital workers' union, and its president, Dennis Rivera. 
Mr. Golisano scorns those kinds of alliances, insisting he is not beholden to special interests and, because he is financing his own campaign, owes nothing to anyone. Because he lacks ties to any unions, he said, he could wield the budget ax with a ferocity he considers lacking in his opponents.
He made a similar argument in addressing education, the second-largest expense for the state, scoffing at people who believe education can be improved by "throwing more money at it."
"The last thing we should do right off the top of our hat is start throwing more money at education," he said. "And that is what Carl McCall wants to do. And George Pataki is proud of the fact that he's continuing to throw more money at education. I think from a financial aspect we've got to step back for a few minutes and say, how are we doing and why are we doing this? And what kind of results are we getting?"
Mr. Golisano said he believed school districts operate inefficiently and can save millions of dollars by going on a fiscal diet.
To superintendents asking for money, he would say, "O.K., school districts, what are you doing to become more efficient, more effective, and get your results higher?"
Mr. Golisano identified teachers' unions as the principal obstacle to carrying out changes he would advocate to improve learning, like lengthening the school day and school year and improving curriculums. 
He believes there is an overemphasis on standardized tests but did not explicitly propose rolling them back. He suggested alternative measurements must be considered, particularly because children in urban areas face social and economic difficulties not seen in the suburbs, which he believes affect learning. He brought up problems like teenage pregnancy and dropout rates, and frequently cited the experiences of the school district in Rochester, his hometown, as instrumental in shaping his thinking.
In fact, he brought an upstate perspective to issues that was in contrast to Mr. Pataki and Mr. McCall, both of whom have tried to connect with voters upstate.
On New York City issues, like redeveloping the site of the World Trade Center, Mr. Golisano suggested that the city should have a greater say, despite the governor's role in appointing half of the board, including the chairman, of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. Mr. Golisano said the priority should be establishing a memorial. 
"This is just as much, if not more of, a New York City issue than a State of New York issue," Mr. Golisano said. "I think the role of the governor here is to help bring in some federal money, potentially, for the construction of the memorial and for any other infrastructure component that may be helpful. I think the role of the governor here is to encourage action. I mean, you know, we're quite a few months past this thing. And we don't seem to have a clear sense of direction."
For the sluggish economy, he prescribes lowering taxes for businesses and employees in order to draw more companies to New York. He said he would also work to lower workers' compensation and health insurance costs for employers.
Mr. Golisano said he would enter Albany ready to battle the status quo, but not always as a lonely warrior. He said he recognized the need to negotiate, particularly with Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, and Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, but would stand his ground when necessary.
"The only time you have a good deal is if both sides feel they can win," Mr. Golisano said of his negotiating tactics. "Now there are going to be times when the person on the other side of the table is not going to be reasonable, in your opinion. And then you're going to have to stand your ground."
He added: "We always have to have a redefinition of what victory means to everybody. For example, I'm dealing with Joe Bruno and with Shelly Silver. That's a very important discussion to have right off the bat. What is the definition of victory here? What are we trying to accomplish?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Golisano in an interview. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Tom Golisano yesterday described his plans to eliminate the state deficit if he is elected governor. Cutting Medicaid is one option. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); MEDICAID (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TRENDS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); LOTTERIES (50%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TUITION; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; LOTTERIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES; STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C; GOLISANO, TOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



565 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Doubts Aside, Pataki Aides See No Gap in the Budget 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
The Pataki administration defended the state budget today, saying it would hold together through the last six months of the fiscal year despite lagging tax collections.
 H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller who is also Gov. George E. Pataki's Democratic challenger in the governor's race, has suggested that a hole will open in the budget shortly after the election. Mr. McCall's office put out a report earlier this week that said tax collections would have to rise steeply over the next six months to keep the state's books balanced. That is unlikely given the sluggish economy, Mr. McCall said. 
 His skepticism is shared by some bond analysts and other budget experts, who doubt that the stock market and the state economy will improve enough in the second half of the fiscal year to make Mr. Pataki's spending plan work. 
But senior budget officials in the Pataki administration dispute those assertions. They maintain that the naysayers are not taking into account several new sources of revenue expected to materialize in the second half of the year, like $175 million from a tax amnesty program and $300 million from the sale of abandoned assets seized by the state.
The governor's budget office also played down the importance of the slight rise in spending in the first half of the fiscal year. Many of the cost-saving measures the governor is counting on, like a hiring freeze he instituted, will not begin to show results until the second half. 
Finally, the administration officials said, about $1 billion in state health and welfare programs is scheduled to be moved out of the state budget over the next six months and will soon be financed with hospital surcharges and federal money.
"For the first six months of the year we are on track with our plan, revenues are coming in slightly above our expectations, and we are continuing our prudent financial management that has successfully contained spending growth," said Carole E. Stone, budget director for Mr. Pataki.
New York City, meanwhile, has its own budget morass. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has been bracing for a $5-to-$6-billion budget gap for next fiscal year, as well as possible shortfalls this year, by seeking $1 billion in cuts from city agencies. He said today he was pessimistic that the city's current revenue projections would hold up over the next nine months. "We may or may not have enough," Mr. Bloomberg said. 
As for the state government, some analysts say the steep drop in tax collections during the first six months does not bode well, especially when coupled with a slight rise in spending.
In July, the governor updated his financial plan to say the state would collect about $40 billion in taxes this fiscal year, a 3 percent drop from last year, and spend it all. Spending out of the general fund, which does not include federal money or specialized state taxes, was supposed to fall by $1 billion, or about 2.4 percent. 
The comptroller's office's mid-year report, however, showed that tax revenues were down by at least 7.5 percent, or $1.5 billion, for the first half of the year, budget officials said.
Over the same period, spending out of the general fund ticked up slightly, by about $300 million.
That means that to meet his goal, Mr. Pataki will have to cut spending by $1.3 billion in the second half of the year, and revenue collections will have to be about $850 million more than in the same period a year ago. 
Robert A. Kurtter, an analyst for Moody's Investment Service, said that was a tall order given the current state of the stock market. About two-thirds of the tax revenue comes from income tax, and half of that comes from a small fraction of the population, people who make more than $200,000 a year in adjusted gross income. Unless income from stocks picks up, it is possible that the state could see a $2 billion shortfall this year, Mr. Kurtter said.
"The answer is simple," he said. "You have got to see improvement in the stock market."
State budget officials say that possibility is remote. It is true, they say, that revenues must rise $850 million over the next six months, but most of that money will come from actions worth $750 million that are already in the budget, including the tax amnesty. 
In addition, many of the spending reductions totaling $1 billion are not real cutbacks but a shifting of costs from the state to the federal welfare program or to pools of money fed by hospital surcharges.
The only danger, budget officials say, is that income tax revenues will continue to plummet faster than predicted, something that will be hard to calculate until January. 
One measure of the delicate fiscal position of the state is that the amount of cash it has on hand after six months this year is $5 billion less than last year.
"They are just hemorrhaging cash," Mr. Kurtter said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 22, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about New York State's financial condition misspelled the given name of Gov. George E. Pataki's budget director in some copies. She is Carole E. Stone, not Carol.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); BONDS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ASSET FORFEITURE (71%); AMNESTY (66%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; AMNESTIES AND PARDONS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER); MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



566 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 85 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Washington: Small Social Security Increase 

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 Social Security recipients will receive a 1.4 percent cost-of-living increase in their monthly checks next year, the smallest increase in four years. The new figure reflects a slowdown in inflation caused by the weak economy. The increase will mean an extra $13 a month for a typical retiree, beginning in January. It will affect 46 million people who receive Social Security benefits and 7 million recipients of Supplemental Security Income, the program for the needy. The increase last year was 2.6 percent.





LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COST OF LIVING (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (83%) SOCIAL SECURITY (US); COST OF LIVING; INDEXING (ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT SYSTEM) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



567 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: THE 2002 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; 
President Pays Quick Visits To Candidates In Close Races

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, Minn., Oct. 18 

 BODY:
President Bush dropped into the middle of two pivotal Senate races today as he campaigned for a pair of Republican candidates recruited by the White House, former Representative Jim Talent of Missouri and former Mayor Norm Coleman of St. Paul, whose victories could change the balance of power on Capitol Hill.
 With only 18 days to go before the Nov. 5 elections, Mr. Bush's political aides have plotted his time by sending him to key states for lightning strikes -- Mr. Bush spent less than an hour and a half in Missouri today. But with the Talent and Coleman campaigns among the half-dozen closest races in the country, a brief glimpse of the presidential pageantry and a quick White House endorsement might make a difference. 
 "Obviously, this helps fire up the troops," said Ken Mehlman, the White House political director, who was hovering in the back of a crowd of thousands at the Rochester Community and Technical College Field House. "It keeps supporters energized, and it reaches out to those who are undecided."
So today, in rallies that were a flashback to 2000 and a foreshadowing of 2004, Mr. Bush shouted out his worries about terrorism and the American economy to thousands of invited, flag-waving guests. He also tailored what he said were the advantages of his tax cut to each state, saying that over 10 years it would save $38 billion in Minnesota and $32 billion in Missouri -- where, interestingly, Mr. Talent's Democratic opponent, Senator Jean Carnahan, is also a supporter of it. Mrs. Carnahan voted for the tax cut in May 2001.
Mr. Bush did not mention that fact today, and instead lavished praise on Mr. Talent as a man who "understands what I'm talking about." He also said that Mr. Talent did not need a focus group to tell him what to think and that he, like Mr. Bush, had married above himself -- a compliment that the president bestowed four hours later on Mr. Coleman, as he does for virtually every male Republican political candidate. 
"Like me, he married well," Mr. Bush said to a roaring crowd.
Mr. Coleman is running against Senator Paul Wellstone, one of the most outspoken liberals in Congress and one of 23 senators who voted against the resolution giving Mr. Bush the authority to attack Iraq, prompting attacks from Mr. Coleman. Mr. Bush did not wade into that local battle today, but instead engaged in his near-daily lashing of Saddam Hussein.
"So long as there's a threat out there, your government will do everything we can to protect you," Mr. Bush said.
Still, Mr. Bush spent nearly half of both speeches, which ran an unusually long 42 minutes and 50 minutes, respectively, on the economy, an issue that Americans say he is not spending enough time taking about.
"And I tell you, we've got some problems -- and we do," the president said here. "The economy is not as good as we'd like it to be. There are too many people looking for work and can't find it."
Mr. Bush got agreement on that from Cheryl Coryea, 51, a Republican from Minnetonka, Minn., who had come to hear the president speak. Ms. Coryea is an unemployed corporate finance officer.
"I can tell you that I'm out looking for a job, and there's nothing out there. Everything is cold," said Ms. Coryea, who supports Mr. Bush.
She said she was concerned about going to war with Iraq and wished that the president had addressed her concerns at home. "I think he should have spent more time on the economy," Ms. Coryea said.
Mr. Bush's appearances today took him to two states that will be of special concern to the White House in 2004. In 2000, Mr. Bush won Missouri but lost Minnesota.
Today, in a briefing to reporters on Air Force One, the White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer, proclaimed that Mr. Bush was the "new sheriff in town and he's dedicated to fiscal discipline."
"And Congress for the first time in a decade has listened to the new sheriff," he said in reference to spending.
Mr. Fleischer did not address why Congress had not so far listened to Mr. Bush on matters like a Department of Homeland Security and terrorism insurance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (71%); TAX LAW (70%); TERRORISM (66%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (53%) ELECTIONS; ELECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); SENATE (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); NORM COLEMAN (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); TALENT, JAMES; CARNAHAN, JEAN (SEN); COLEMAN, NORM; WELLSTONE, PAUL (SEN); BUMILLER, ELISABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, MN, USA (87%) MISSOURI, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) MISSOURI

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



568 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: The Smoke Nazis 

BYLINE:  By Bill Keller; E-mail: billkeller@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The mayor of New York City does not seem to be a particularly puritanical man. Michael Bloomberg is a guy who, when asked if he had ever tried marijuana, replied: "You bet I did. And I enjoyed it." (Alas, he's not willing to advocate decriminalizing the experience for the rest of us, but that's a subject for another day.) He once fondly likened his college fraternity to the one in "Animal House," and he still enjoys a party. He is no libertarian, let alone libertine, but his attitude toward private pleasure is pretty much live and let live. 
 On the subject of tobacco, though, he has surprised many constituents with his zeal. First he slapped on a city tax increase that raises the price of a pack of cigarettes to around $7. Now he proposes to outlaw smoking in every bar and restaurant in the five boroughs of New York. 
 Is this the smug virtue of a reformed smoker? A bit of bash-tobacco political opportunism? A rich man's paternalism toward what has become more and more a working-class vice? It's not unreasonable to suspect a bit of each: Mr. Bloomberg is a convert from a pack-a-day habit, Big Tobacco is the domestic equivalent of Saddam Hussein, and Mr. Bloomberg's class empathy is more top-hat than tip-jar. 
Granting all of that, and granting the aversion of New Yorkers to being patronized, and even granting a little sympathy for the slaves of tobacco, I think the mayor is on the right side of something important.
Mr. Bloomberg has framed the smoking ban as strictly an issue of workplace safety -- a line that is hard to assail on the merits. The mayor will tell you he strongly defends your right to smoke yourself to death, but you may not spray your toxic effluent into the airspace of innocent bystanders, in particular the waiters and bartenders whose only recourse is to quit their jobs.
There are basically three arguments being raised against him: science, economics and personal liberty. Two of them Mr. Bloomberg wins hands down, and one is open to debate.
The science argument is that the damage of secondhand smoke has been vastly overstated by anti-tobacco zealots. I have a few pounds of medical literature on my desk that says otherwise. Both the epidemiological evidence (people who live with smokers have much higher risks of lung cancer and heart disease) and the physical evidence (even brief exposure to secondhand smoke has measurable effects on your blood chemistry and heart rate) are credibly alarming. When Thomas Frieden, the city health commissioner, says that 1,000 New Yorkers will die this year from other people's cigarettes, he may be rounding off the number but he's not just blowing smoke. 
Kenneth Warner, an economist at the University of Michigan School of Public Health who is widely regarded as a fair-minded expert on tobacco regulation, said that a few years ago he used to complain about "policy-led science," meaning anti-smoking statutes were being built on shaky evidence. Now he feels the balance has shifted. The research on the dangers of involuntary smoking has grown far more damning, and the law has yet to catch up.
"Clearly for people who work in those environments, they might as well be smokers themselves," Mr. Warner says.
The economics argument is that no-smoking statutes hurt business at bars and restaurants. Here, too, there is a mountain of good evidence from California, where smoking in a bar or restaurant has been outlawed statewide since 1998. Studies based on sales slips and tax records show that the increased spending of grateful nonsmokers -- who, after all, make up about 80 percent of the adult population -- easily compensates for any smokers who stay home. The few studies that show business suffering tend to be sponsored, surprise, by the tobacco industry. They are based on what restaurant owners say rather than on actual records, or they blame the smoking ban for declining sales that began long before the ban was enacted. 
Which leaves the debate about personal freedom, or, as one City Councilman put it during last week's hearings on the smoking ban, "people's right to be stupid."
The freedom-lovers argue that smoking is a social pleasure, and that the right to congregate over drinks and smokes should not be denied to consenting adults -- including consenting bartenders, who are entitled to risk emphysema if they like the wages. Some of the mayor's critics have elevated public smoking to the status of a civil right, and talk about tobacco regulators as jack-booted thugs. I kept waiting for someone to trot out the fact that the first health-based crusade against smoking was launched by Adolf Hitler. (Yes, the Fuhrer banned smoking in public places.) 
It's a little odd, when you think about it, to talk about liberty regarding a practice that is more an addiction than a choice. Smokers stay smokers in large part because they can't quit. We start in the first place in large part because we are captives of fashion -- the imperative to emulate our teenage peers, the allure of countless hipsters and renegades and screen seducers, the relentless happy illusions of tobacco industry propaganda. We start, that is, because we are conformists, conforming in this case to an image of independence or worldliness.
Mr. Bloomberg's campaign is part of a larger attempt to turn back a powerful cultural tide, reinforced by $10 billion a year in tobacco industry marketing muscle, that has glamorized tobacco and insinuated it into our sense of fun. Banishing tobacco from places where people socialize has proved to be a highly effective way of countering the notion that smoking is cool. Mr. Bloomberg has focused on the bartenders who will live longer because they no longer inhale regurgitated tobacco, but the larger effect of putting bars and restaurants off limits to smokers is indirect: serious numbers of active smokers quit -- and children never start -- because of the public disapproval these laws broadcast.
"These restrictions change social norms," says Michael Thun, chief epidemiologist for the American Cancer Society. "That's the real reason the tobacco industry opposes them so vehemently."
Mr. Bloomberg gave up smoking cold turkey, and he expects New York nightspots to do likewise. He accepts no compromise. "If you try to be cute, and have all sorts of carve-outs, you make laws that are so complex and so unfair and invariably have unintended consequences," he says.
That is a respectable position, but I suspect allowances will, and should, be made to ease along the smoking minority. Some City Council members want to exempt all stand-alone bars that don't serve food, which is a pretty gaping loophole. Another option is to try to invent little sanctuaries for consensual smoking. In California, a sole proprietor who tends his own bar and thus endangers no employees is exempted from the no-smoking law. Other smoke-ban municipalities have allowed bars to reorganize as private smoking clubs -- "smoke-easies," they have been called. Commissioner Frieden is scornful of such exemptions. "We don't allow asbestos-easies," he says. "We don't allow benzene-easies. We don't allow formaldehyde-easies, or radiation-easies." Admittedly, exemptions are hard to contain. But an immediate, absolute ban feels, frankly, a little contrary to the indulgent spirit of New York.
Possibly we will simply tolerate a certain amount of non-enforcement. The Dutch have invented an artful policy they call gedogen, which means deliberately turning a blind eye; the term applies to those Amsterdam coffee houses where patrons are allowed to smoke cannabis although the stuff is technically illegal. A lawyer friend of mine frequents a bar in San Francisco where everyone pretends not to notice when a smoker lights up. The clientele there is mostly cops and prosecutors. 
Those who romanticize the camaraderie of a smoky bar may get over it more easily than they think. My friend John Lescroart, a novelist whose characters spend a good deal of time in the bars of San Francisco, has a lifelong dislike of being told what's good for him. I called him the other day, expecting him to wax sentimental about the blue haze and perfume of a smoky bar in the days before the smoke nazis took over California. To my surprise, I found a grudging convert to the smoke-free night life. 
"On philosophical grounds, it's an appalling infringement of liberty," he said. "But do I like it? Yeah. It's gotten so when I travel to places where people smoke in restaurants, it's really gross. I can smell a cigarette at 100 yards now, and I find it offensive. Even though I would die for your right to smoke it."
Bartender, Nicorette for the house!

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Knickerbocker) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); MAYORS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (88%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (88%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (77%); DECRIMINALIZATION (77%); POLITICS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); SMOKING BANS (73%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); CANNABIS (72%); STUDENT FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); LUNG CANCER (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); TAX LAW (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (68%); EVIDENCE (66%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (64%); HEART DISEASE (60%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (60%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (60%); CANCER (60%) SMOKING AND TOBACCO; RESTAURANTS; BARS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); KELLER, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



569 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Daschle Takes Parting Shot as Congress Breaks 

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
With Congress leaving the capital for a last bout of campaigning, Senator Tom Daschle, the majority leader, today blamed President Bush for a "very disappointing Congress" and said the nation was in worse shape than when Mr. Bush took office.
 "You've got an economy that is in shambles as a result of decisions made by this administration," Mr. Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota, told a small group of reporters. 
 "You have virtually no attention to domestic issues," Mr. Daschle said. "You have a far greater, more poisoned political environment than we had two years ago. You have an administration that is looked upon around the world in the most dubious of ways."
The sharp tone highlighted the lost promise of the 107th Congress, which came into office after the tumultuous 2000 election as the most closely divided Congress since the Eisenhower administration.
From the start, the central question was whether the split decision of the voters would lead to sharp partisan deadlock or a pragmatic period of centrist compromise.
Republicans controlled the presidency and both houses of Congress for the first time in nearly 50 years, which could have led them to seek to push through their agenda.
On the other hand their hold on power was razor-thin, and Mr. Bush had signaled on the campaign trail that he might seek accommodation. He showcased his good relations with Texas Democrats and he repeatedly pledged to "change the tone" in Washington.
The tone did change noticeably after the Sept. 11 attacks when the nation felt threatened on its own shores, and at moments Democratic leaders have made common cause with Mr. Bush on education and national security.
Moreover, the Congress did have notable achievements -- and might yet have more when it reconvenes in November for a lame-duck session.
The House and Senate overhauled the nation's campaign finance and electoral systems and created new rules on corporate responsibility.
Congress gave President Bush the "fast track" authority to negotiate trade deals that can only be approved or rejected by Congress. It passed a landmark education law. It approved Mr. Bush's signature $1.35 trillion, 10-year tax cut. 
After Sept. 11, it authorized force first in Afghanistan and, just this month, in Iraq. It gave the Justice Department new powers to fight terrorism, toughened airport security and helped the strapped airline industry.
But other issues central to the domestic agenda of each party remained deadlocked -- a Department of Homeland Security, a patient's bill of rights, a prescription drug benefit, overhaul of the Medicare and Social Security systems. Energy policy and competing economic proposals like tax cuts and an increase in the minimum wage all fell by the wayside. Lawmakers gave up even trying to reach agreement on annual spending bills, putting that issue off until after the elections.
And the finger-pointing over who was to blame for Congress's failure made clear that the tone in Washington is as vitriolic as ever. Mr. Daschle's critique of the Bush administration was more than matched by Republican accusations that Senate Democrats were willfully obstructing the president's agenda.
Representative Dick Armey, the House majority leader from Texas, even contrasted Al Qaeda's ability to regroup after the war in Afghanistan to the Senate's failure to pass a domestic security bill.
"Al Qaeda doesn't have a Senate," Mr. Armey said on Thursday. "Al Qaeda doesn't have a Senator Daschle who has another focus. Al Qaeda has a clear focus. Terrorizing America is the first and only focus."
Summing up the past two years, Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, one of the centrists who was frustrated in brokering agreements, said that "to a certain extent, partisanship ruled."
In part, lawmakers said, the narrow balance of power and the way it came about heightened partisan tensions, not conciliation. Democrats began the 107th Congress embittered that Mr. Bush became president while losing the popular vote to former Vice President Al Gore.
Republicans in turn were infuriated by the way Senate control flipped to the Democrats in mid-2001 when Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont became an independent.
"It just didn't help," said Representative Christopher Shays, Republican of Connecticut, adding that the change of control without a new election "caused real anger."
On occasion, President Bush chose to cooperate with Democrats. At other times he used all of his influence to muscle through campaign proposals dear to the Republican base. He worked with Democrats so closely on a new education law that conservatives complained that it bore more of the imprint of Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, than of George W. Bush.
But Democrats, hoping the close election might moderate Mr. Bush's goals, said the president caught them by surprise when he moved ahead with a conservative agenda and conservative appointments.
That did not please the Democrats who wanted more efforts at reaching across the aisle.
"The president came to Washington promising to change the tone, and he did," Mr. Daschle said today. "It's worse. He promised compassionate conservatism and the only thing we've seen is compassion for conservatives."
Republicans say that Mr. Daschle was equally partisan in his efforts to counter the Republican-controlled House. As majority leader, he tried to maximize opportunities for only Democratic versions of bills.
On certain hard-fought issues like energy or a Medicare prescription drug benefit, Mr. Daschle bypassed committees that might have drawn up compromise bills and instead brought Democratic measures directly to the floor. By this fall, the Senate on any given day was usually paralyzed by partisan warfare.
No matter which party controls the House and Senate when the elections are over, the majorities once again are expected to be narrow, meaning little is likely to change. 
"A lot of the dynamic you've seen these last two years will probably still be in play," said Representative David E. Price, a moderate Democrat from North Carolina.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Tom Daschle said the country was in worse shape than when President Bush took office. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TERRORISM (86%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (86%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); EDUCATION LAW (68%); AIRPORTS (68%); AVIATION SECURITY (68%); APPROVALS (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (63%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (63%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (62%); HEALTH INSURANCE (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); MEDICARE (60%); AIRLINES (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%) MITCHELL, ALISON; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DASCHLE, TOM (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



570 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
White House Backs Off Big S.E.C. Budget Increase
Less than three months ago, President Bush signed sweeping legislation with great fanfare that called for a huge increase in the budget of the Securities and Exchange Commission to police corporate America and clean up Wall Street.
 Now the White House is backing off the budget provision and urging Congress to provide the agency with 27 percent less money than the new law authorized. Page A1. 

Bausch & Lomb Chief Under Fire
Ronald L. Zarrella, the chief executive of Bausch & Lomb, admitted that he had falsified his resume. But, as Bausch shares began to fall on the news, the company's board issued a statement of confidence in him. Mr. Zarrella, who was named chief executive 11 months ago, had said that he received a master's degree in business administration from New York University when, in fact, he had not. C2.

Competition Presses Merck Profit
Merck said its third-quarter profit dropped 3.3 percent, to $1.88 billion, or 83 cents a share, in line with expectations. A new painkiller from Pharmacia hurt sales of Vioxx, Merck's No. 2 product, and competition from generic products also led to eroding sales growth. C2.

A federal judge has struck down rules that required drug companies to test their products in children, so that doctors and parents would have more information about the drugs' safety and the proper dosage. A9.

An arbitrator ordered Johnson & Johnson to pay Amgen $150 million for violating terms of a licensing agreement. C14.

Lucent Seeks to Split Its Shares
Lucent Technologies said that it would seek shareholder approval for a reverse stock split to increase its stock price, which has averaged below $1 for the last 30 trading days. C2.

Inflation Gauge Rises Slightly
Consumer prices, the government's most closely watched inflation gauge, rose a moderate 0.2 percent in September, in line with expectations. The report, released by the Labor Department, showed that energy costs shot up 0.7 percent in July, led by a 1 percent surge in gasoline pump prices. C2.

United and Unions Make Progress
United Airlines and its unions said that they had agreed to try to wring $5.8 billion in labor cost savings over five and a half years, even as UAL, United's parent, reported one of its worst quarterly losses. C3.

Continental Airlines tentatively agreed to a labor contract with about 3,300 mechanics and cleaning workers represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. C4.

Two-Week Milestone for Stocks
Stocks finished a volatile week with small gains but still managed a milestone of sorts: one of the better two-week performances since World War II. The Nasdaq climbed 13 percent over the two weeks, its ninth best performance since it was started in 1971. The Dow and S.& P. 500 rose 10.5 percent, the fifth biggest two-week rally for the S.& P. since 1945 and the seventh biggest for the Dow. C4.

Precautions Against Tanker Attacks
Many in the oil industry are taking what precautions they can against terrorist attacks on tankers. But without a lot more help from national governments, especially in hazardous areas like the Persian Gulf and Southeast Asia, the tankers will remain highly vulnerable, oil and shipping executives said. C3.

China Airlines to Add Cargo Flights
China Airlines said it would begin offering four extra weekly cargo flights from Taipei to Los Angeles, starting on Oct. 21 and lasting at least until mid-November. The move is in response to frustration in East Asia over backlogs at West Coast ports in the United States. C3.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,322.40 up 47.36Nasdaq composite -- 1,287.86 up 15.5710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.11% down 0.09The euro -- $0.9718 Unch.The dollar -- 125.53 yen up 0.66 Graph tracks daily closings of the Nasdaq composite index from October 11-18. Yesterday: 1,287.86(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); STOCK SPLITS (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); GENERIC DRUGS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (71%); CHILDREN (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); GASOLINE (66%); DRUG SAFETY (65%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (64%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (52%); WORLD WAR II (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (92%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (82%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (66%); AMGEN INC (55%); PHARMACIA CORP (55%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (92%); MRK (NYSE) (92%); ALU (PAR) (82%); ALU (NYSE) (82%); ALU (BIT) (82%); JNJ (NYSE) (66%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (55%); UAL (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (82%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (82%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (66%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2824 MANMADE ORGANIC FIBERS, EXCEPT CELLULOSIC (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



571 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seeks Support to Press North Korea 

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
American officials opened a diplomatic drive across Asia and Europe today to build international pressure on North Korea to abandon its recently revealed nuclear weapons program. 
 Bush administration officials said they were looking particularly to China, one of North Korea's oldest allies and largest trading partners, to play a role in urging Pyongyang to dismantle its program to enrich uranium for weapons. North Korean officials acknowledged the program in a meeting with American diplomats two weeks ago. 
 On the first stop of a multination sweep through Asia and Europe, James A. Kelly, the assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, and John R. Bolton, under secretary for arms control and international security, met with senior Foreign Ministry officials in Beijing, urging China to join Japan and South Korea in trying to influence Pyongyang. 
"North Korea needs to feel the pressure across the board, from the people who have supported it in the past and those they want to improve relations with it in the future," said a senior administration official. "China is both." 
From Beijing, Mr. Kelly will travel on Saturday to Seoul and Tokyo, while Mr. Bolton will press the United States' case in Moscow, London and Paris early next week. 
President Bush will be host to the Chinese president, Jiang Zemin, at his ranch in Crawford, Tex., on Friday. On Saturday, he is scheduled to meet with Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan and President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea at an international economic conference in Mexico. High on the agenda will be whether to continue the construction of a light-water nuclear reactor in North Korea that is being financed mainly by Japan and South Korea, American officials said. 
 South Korean officials were set to fly to Pyongyang on Saturday for four days of talks, and they planned to urge North Korea to scrap any nuclear weapons program it might have, Reuters reported. The talks were scheduled before news of the nuclear program emerged. 
Mr. Bush maintained his public silence on the North Korean weapons program today as he campaigned for Republican Senate candidates in Minnesota and Missouri. Mr. Bush has yet to make a statement on the program since news of it broke Wednesday, which administration officials say is meant to underscore a quiet, diplomatic approach, in contrast to the more belligerent denunciations of Iraq's programs. 
But other senior officials used public events today to explain why the administration believed diplomacy could work in containing North Korea while military action might be required to disarm Iraq. 
At a town hall meeting at Atlantic State University in Savannah, Ga., Deputy Secretary of State Richard L. Armitage argued that there had been 50 years of relative peace on the Korean Peninsula while Iraq had gone to war twice with its neighbors and used chemical weapons on its own people. "The fact that Saddam Hussein has used these weapons against his neighbors and his own people make him quite a bit more urgent of a problem," Mr. Armitage said in an interview.
The administration has had strong evidence of North Korean's uranium-enrichment program for several months, and made some of that intelligence known to a small, bipartisan group of senior lawmakers and their aides three weeks ago. But it told only a small number of Republican lawmakers about North Korea's admission of its nuclear weapons program before it publicly made the disclosure on Wednesday. 
Today, some Democrats complained that if lawmakers had known about the program last week, it might have complicated Mr. Bush's efforts to win support for a resolution authorizing the use of force against Iraq. The resolution passed overwhelmingly in both houses.
"If Congress had known, I think it would have made a real difference in some people's votes," said Representative Chaka Fattah, a Democrat from Pennsylvania, who voted against the Iraq resolution. "You're talking about a real threat of nuclear weapons in North Korea versus a perceived threat in Iraq, in the distant future. And the beauty of the White House misleading people is that it's difficult to change our policy now that he has the vote in hand."
Administration officials said they wanted to keep North Korea's admission secret until they had consulted with Japan, South Korea, China and other nations. 
Some Democrats agreed with that stand. "The administration appears to be dealing with this in a responsible way, first going to our allies, South Korea and Japan, and even engaging China," said Representative Ellen O. Tauscher, a Democrat from California, who voted to support the president on Iraq. "This is the model we should have applied to Iraq."

GRAPHIC: Photo: South Korean war veterans shouted slogans against the North and its nuclear arms program at a rally last night in Sungnam, south of Seoul. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (65%); TERRORISM (59%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DAO, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (51%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (95%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



572 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Bush Tries to Shrink S.E.C. Raise Intended for Corporate Cleanup 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
Less than three months ago, President Bush signed with great fanfare sweeping corporate antifraud legislation that called for a huge increase in the budget of the Securities and Exchange Commission to police corporate America and clean up Wall Street.
 Now the White House is backing off the budget provision and urging Congress to provide the agency with 27 percent less money than the new law authorized. 
 Administration officials say their proposed increase is enough and that other budgetary needs, like the military and security against terrorism, make it impossible to afford more.
The decision has angered commission officials and Democratic lawmakers, who say that it reflects the administration's calculation that corporate scandals have begun to recede as a political issue. They say that the administration's more modest increase will not be able to pay for the expanded role of the agency, bring salaries up to levels at other financial regulatory agencies, finance the start-up costs of an accounting oversight board and significantly expand a staff that is already overwhelmed. 
Under the corporate clean-up legislation, the commission's budget -- which for years has barely kept up with inflation, let alone the steep rise in stock ownership -- was authorized to increase by 77 percent, to $776 million. But as Congress wrestles with the spending measures that actually appropriate money to federal agencies, the White House is requesting $568 million for the S.E.C., officials said, or an increase of about 30 percent over last year's budget of $438 million. 
Harvey L. Pitt, the commission's chairman, has acknowledged through a spokesman that the administration's level of financing will not allow it to undertake important initiatives. 
The White House has put Mr. Pitt in the awkward position of having to choose between Congressional Democrats who want a larger budget and administration officials who want less. Brian Gross, the commission's director of communications, said that Mr. Pitt was concerned that the agency would not be able to do many of the technology and enforcement projects that he would like if the commission received only what the White House has recommended.
"It doesn't allow for a lot of new initiatives," Mr. Gross said. On the other hand, he said, Mr. Pitt appreciates that the White House has to juggle other budget issues that would prompt the administration to support the lower figure.
The commission's budget became a major political issue as the wave of corporate scandals illustrated the agency's difficulties in policing major public companies and Wall Street. Through most of the year, the administration opposed calls by Democrats for bigger increases in the agency's spending allocation. But after the collapse of WorldCom this summer, the president cited the larger spending increase when he signed the corporate overhaul, known for its prime sponsors as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, at a ceremony in the East Room on July 30.
"Corporate misdeeds will be found and will be punished," Mr. Bush said then. "This law authorizes new funding for investigators and technology at the Securities and Exchange Commission to uncover wrongdoing."
The commission's finances have become a casualty of political gridlock between Congress and the administration over the budget for the entire government. Congress has passed temporary spending measures set at last year's budget levels to keep the government operating at least through the end of November. 
Two months ago, the commission received an increase of $30 million over its $438 million budget from last year, which was widely considered inadequate, to begin hiring another 100 staff members to join its 3,100 current employees. As a result, nearly a year after those corporate scandals began with the collapse of Enron, commission officials say that they have struggled to keep up with their growing number of responsibilities and cases. 
Senior agency officials say that they are still unable to open many of the investigations that they want and that, as cases near trial, they will be stretched thin. The agency's computer systems have not been updated in many years. The agency is unable to review the vast majority of corporate documents filed every day. And one investment house alone, Merrill Lynch, has more professionals in its legal and compliance departments than the commission's entire enforcement staff.
The problems were supposed to be fixed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which set a $776 million authorized budget. But now, administration officials say Mr. Bush supports a more modest increase, of $130 million, to $568 million.
"The president does believe the S.E.C. has a substantial mission and we think $568 million is sufficient to carry that out," said Amy Call, a spokeswoman for the White House Office of Management and Budget. 
Administration officials say that the budget figure in the law is too high considering the other needs of the budget. They say that the agency would be able to carry out more investigations, increase staff and raise pay levels with the more modest budget proposed by the White House.
Briefing reporters aboard Air Force One, Ari Fleischer, the president's spokesman, said it was a major accomplishment that Congress recessed without increasing any spending.
"Typically, when Congress leaves, they pay an exit fee, where spending is increased above and beyond what the Congressional budget authorized, and the taxpayers are always the victims," Mr. Fleischer said. "This year, the chain was broken."
Senator Paul S. Sarbanes, the Maryland Democrat who was the principal author of the legislation, called the White House position "disheartening" and said that its proposed budget would fall far short of what is necessary for the agency to be effective.
"I can't understand why they are taking this position," he said. "We didn't pull the $776 million out of a hat. The costs of increasing pay, hiring new staff and increasing the volume of their business presents a case for a higher budget that is overwhelming."
The law calls for $102 million for raises and $108 million for better computer systems and financing for restoring the agency after the Sept. 11 attacks that destroyed its New York offices. It also proposed $98 million to pay for 200 additional auditors, investigators and prosecutors. Budget officials estimate that the new accounting board will need from $25 million to $50 million to start. That money is to come from the commission's budget and be repaid later by the accounting profession.
In July, shortly before the measure was adopted, a Senate committee led by Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, passed a $750.5 million appropriations measure for the commission. The measure has since languished as Democrats and Republicans have been unable to reach agreement in the House and the Senate on the federal budget.
Democrats said that the White House position reflected the calculation that the corporate scandals have moved to the back burner, and therefore the White House does not need to honor the provision in the legislation that calls for the higher financing.
"My sense is this is a White House that is sensing some political relief that this is no longer the issue on the table so they can take a political pass on this," said Senator Christopher Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who heads the Senate banking subcommittee on securities and investment. "They touched the critical issues last summer and now it's gone. Now the issue is Iraq all the time."
"I think they are politically mistaken and also dangerous substantively," Mr. Dodd said. "You have to have the resources and do the job. You need the right cops on the beat to get it done."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush on July 30, signing the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which in part authorized an increase of the S.E.C. budget to $776 million. Now, however, the White House has scaled that figure back to $568 million. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGETS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); ETHICS (76%); SCANDALS (74%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); TERRORISM (55%) SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC); CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; ETHICS 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (95%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (53%); VZ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%) SIC2844 TOILET PREPARATIONS; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



573 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 86 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Washington: Lieberman Calls For Tax Rebates 

BYLINE:  By Richard W. Stevenson (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut, called for tax rebates for low-income workers and investment tax credits for businesses as part of a plan to revive the economy. Mr. Lieberman, a possible presidential candidate, used a speech in New York to criticize President Bush and propose rebates for 34 million workers who did not qualify for the $300-a-person rebates last year. He also called for a 20 percent tax credit for companies that invest in information technology. Richard W. Stevenson (NYT)





LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX RELIEF (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (85%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (84%) TAXATION 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (75%) LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002 



574 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: Born to Be Mild 

BYLINE:  By David Brooks; David Brooks is a senior editor at The Weekly Standard and a contributing editor at Newsweek.

 BODY:
 MEMOIRS
By David Rockefeller.
Illustrated. 517 pp. New York:
Random House. $35.
 These days we see a lot of memoirs by people with bipolar personalities, but there was an age, before we let Narcissus out for a romp, when the most prominent Americans had antipolar personalities. These were people whose passions started at room temperature and only rarely heated up to lukewarm, people who could be counted on to not fly off the handle, or even raise their voices, no matter how desperate the circumstances. If his autobiography, "Memoirs," is to be believed, David Rockefeller is one such person, a Mozart of modulated tones.
He is never furious, though he is occasionally "distressed." An event is never horrible, it is "disagreeable." When he found himself at a Nazi rally in prewar Germany, he notes in his autobiography, he felt "an overpowering sense of discomfort." Confronted by a raging crowd of protesters in the 1960's, he regretfully observes that they were "intemperate." 
Here is David Rockefeller writing at the top of his emotional register. Describing an early visit to the Sea of Galilee: "The associations of this area with the Bible and the ministry of Jesus Christ made this a deeply meaningful part of the trip for Father and, I confess, for me as well." Describing his romance with his wife: "Courting Peggy McGrath provided me with a very pleasant diversion and eventually with the most important relationship of my life." Describing his confrontations with his bitterest rival at the Chase Manhattan Bank: "If the disagreement was strong enough, we could end up pretty close to the borderline of incivility."
Pretty close to the borderline of incivility! This is not the world of Italians or Jews shouting at one another across the kitchen table. This is not the world of Oprah or Camille Paglia or Elizabeth Wurtzel. This is a voice from the lost continent of reticence. Or, to put it another way, this is a voice from the lost world of the Protestant Establishment.
Though his family's money was fresher than most, David Rockefeller grew up with the codes and manners of the East Coast elite. Born in 1915, he lived in the largest private home in New York City, assisted by an army of valets, parlormaids, nurses and chambermaids. He and his brothers would roller-skate to school up Fifth Avenue, with a limousine cruising behind to pick them up if they tired. When David would go door to door delivering Thanksgiving food baskets to the poor, a liveried chauffeur was at his side to help him carry the goods. The family hewed to the old customs. Rockefeller's father dressed in black tie for dinner every night, and his mother wore a formal gown.
Not atypically for his class, there was more real estate than companionship in David Rockefeller's childhood. Weekends were spent at the Pocantico estate in Westchester and summers in Maine. Most of his days he was alone amid the great sprawling grounds. As if to complete the stereotype of the poor little rich boy, young David took up beetle collecting and was happiest with his bugs. 
He went off to Harvard, of course, where one gets the sense that he was a quiet and diffident presence at the cotillion balls that dominated his social life. He never earned an A in college (though he did get an A/ in entomology), but he was an earnest, serious young man and he went on to get a Ph.D. in economics before heading off to a career at Chase, a bank with longstanding family ties.
He proved himself, in the parlance of the class, sound. And he positively excelled at the sober sort of networking that is appreciated in the executive suites where the wood paneling is dark and the cuff links are subtle. With his name, fortune and demeanor, he was able to hobnob with the great and the good, with George C. Marshall, Henry Kissinger, Anwar el-Sadat, etc. Over time Rockefeller transformed himself into the leading corporate statesman of his day. Wherever there were panel discussions, evenly spaced bottles of mineral water and worthy discourses on the need for increased international dialogue, Rockefeller was there. He was there at the creation of the Trilateral Commission, the Bilderberg Society, the Pesenti Group. He served as chairman of the Council on Foreign Relations. His ability to endure tedium must be unmatched in all human history.
The nicest part of this book traces Rockefeller's emergence from solitude and self-doubt to the top of the business world, and to his position as the head of his family. He grew up not only in the shadow of his family's money and fame but also in the shadow of his older brother Nelson. "I idolized Nelson," he writes of himself as a young boy. "On the rare occasions when he took notice of my existence and asked me to join one of his adventures, my life was immediately transformed into something larger, better and more exciting." 
But through sheer persistence, through the relentless accumulation of contacts and influence, David achieved a success that rivaled his brother's. Unlike Nelson, he never strayed from the straight and narrow, never took the imprudent step. When Nelson did, by divorcing his wife and marrying Happy, David was not forgiving. "I no longer saw him as the hero who could do no wrong but as a man who was willing to sacrifice almost everything in the service of his enormous ambition." By the time they approached retirement age, David makes clear, he had replaced Nelson as his family's leader.
But there is an ugly side to Rockefeller's ascent as well. He spent his life in the club of the ruling class and was loyal to members of the club, no matter what they did. He tried to shield Alger Hiss from unpleasantness when he was accused of being a Communist spy. He tried to find refuge for the Shah of Iran after he was deposed. Sometimes his loyalty to his fellow clubmen is endearing, but he is often coldly aloof from the horrors that his friends and contacts perpetrated outside the palace gates. He spent much of his career at Chase doing business with tyrants -- paying homage to oil-rich dictators, sitting through long meetings with the Chinese perpetrators of the Cultural Revolution (an associate once handed over a suitcase with $50,000 in cash to the Chinese so Rockefeller could have a meeting with their ambassador), holding court with Soviet party bosses. The contacts often led to profitable deals for Chase. They benefited the ruling cliques in those countries. But in ways he is oblivious of even now, Rockefeller was soiled by his close embraces with these thugs. While the forces of democracy squared off with the forces of authoritarianism, Rockefeller was perpetually in the room with whoever happened to be in power. 
Finally, this book does suggest a solution to one of the great mysteries of
the 20th century: whatever happened to the Protestant Establishment? For 200 years a certain sort of people with a certain culture occupied the commanding heights of American society. Then suddenly sometime around the 1960's . . . poof! . . . they were gone. Within a historical instant most of the power networks, codes of conduct and institutions the Protestant Establishment had built were eliminated or transformed beyond recognition. And the amazing thing is that its members didn't even put up a fight.
The revolution took place within Rockefeller's family as well as the society as a whole. All his children rejected the Establishment he was a part of. One became a "sexual segregationist" (in the words of New York magazine); another helped finance The Real Paper, an alternative weekly in Boston. Rockefeller could not defend himself against their assaults, could not defend the code of reticence, public service and corporate conduct that had marked his own life. 
And the reason he could not defend himself, first, was an intense aversion to conflict. Fighting back wasn't good manners. But more fundamentally, though Rockefeller appears to the world as a conservative banker, he sees himself, this book makes clear, as a progressive agent for change. Far from having an attachment to the past and to its codes, David Rockefeller, and really all the Rockefellers, were perpetually falling for everything that was new. They embraced every new educational theory, every new artistic style, every new architectural trend, every new business fad. And so when the 60's came along and seemed to represent yet another bright new future, many of the younger Rockefellers embraced that too, even if it meant the destruction of their place in society, and the older ones had nothing to say. 
As this calm yet revealing memoir indicates, there never will be another person like David Rockefeller, a person who epitomized the Establishment and attracted conspiracy theories by the score. In the 60's, a new generation came up to destroy his world, and in response, he was willing to come pretty close to the borderline of incivility.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dining with Golda Meir, prime minister of Israel, probably in the early 1970's. (Courtesy J. P. Morgan Chase & Company archives/from "Memoirs") 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); LITERATURE (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (71%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (71%); RELIGION (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (65%); THANKSGIVING (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (59%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: BROOKS, DAVID; ROCKEFELLER, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%); ISRAEL (79%); GERMANY (76%)

TITLE: MEMOIRS (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



575 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy Paperbacks 

BYLINE:  By Scott Veale

 BODY:
 THE PICKUP, by Nadine Gordimer. (Penguin, $14.) This novel about a rich, white South African woman and a Muslim immigrant whose random encounter turns into a love affair explores how their mutual incomprehension is connected to their mutual attraction. The result is "a painful account of this unlikely coupling, its persistent misunderstandings, its interaction with a world that increasingly pits wealthy, globally connected Westerners with the often stateless, roaming poor of the world," Andrew Sullivan wrote here in 2001.

TRIESTE AND THE MEANING OF NOWHERE, by Jan Morris. (Da Capo, $15.) Drawing on detail from contemporary accounts and scholarly histories, the author recalls the faded glory of Trieste, an Adriatic city with a rich past that thrived under the Hapsburg Empire and attracted many foreigners (James Joyce was a fan). "Morris's remarkable chronicle" is "given a personal cast, displaying her knack for choosing a resonant metaphor or symbol, a pertinent poem or aria, even snatches of conversation that yield a secret of the place," Lawrence Venuti said in these pages last year.

THE PRACTICAL HEART: Four Novellas, by Allan Gurganus. (Vintage Contemporaries, $14.) Actually, this book consists of a novella about a young boy who unwittingly destroys his salesman father, a short story in which a ditzy Southern widow pays literary homage to a preservationist, a memoirish account of the author's sexual awakening and a Jamesian tale featuring a woman who posed for John Singer Sargent. Last year our reviewer, Peter Parker, particularly admired the novella, which he called "a complex and fully achieved work of fiction."

THEODORE REX, By Edmund Morris. (Modern Library, $16.95.) The sequel to "The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt" (1979) spans the relatively brief period beginning with Roosevelt's ascent to the presidency after McKinley's assassination and ending seven and half years later with his departure from office. Morris "writes with a breezy verve that makes the pages fly, and that perfectly suits his subject," Richard Brookhiser wrote in these pages last year. "A combination of diffidence and enthusiasm allows him to write of our past . . . with energy and clarity."

EVA MOVES THE FURNITURE, by Margot Livesey. (Picador USA, $13.) In this often spooky novel, Eva McEwen, a Scottish woman born in 1920, is visited all her life by a woman and girl who are invisible to everyone else. At times helpful, at others capricious and even malignant, her companions pop up to dictate every important decision she makes. "Reader beware," Valerie Martin warned here last year. "If you give Eva McEwen just a little space in your own imagination, she will start moving the furniture."

DISPLACED PERSONS: Growing Up American After the Holocaust, by Joseph Berger. (Washington Square, $14.) The author, a journalist at The Times, arrived in America at the age of 5 with his parents, Polish citizens who were among the 140,000 Jewish refugees who arrived here between 1946 and 1953. "Berger's book is an extraordinary memoir, full of pride, tenderness and love," Thane Rosenbaum wrote in the Book Review in 2001. "It is a tribute to the dead and a valentine to the living."

A TRIAL BY JURY, by D. Graham Burnett. (Vintage, $12.) The jury foreman in a tawdry murder case in New York City recounts his exasperating encounters with courtroom incompetence, mushy evidence, a sadistic judge and a chaotic crew of 11 fellow jurors who somehow, after four days of deliberations, managed to fulfill their sworn duty. The author "is a graceful, economical writer, with a sharp eye for detail and a nuanced feel for character," Barry Gewen wrote here in 2001.

DARLING? Stories, by Heidi Jon Schmidt. (Picador USA, $13.) The women in these tales, some of whom are married to much older academics and writers, tend to be far too brainy for the awful emotional places where they find themselves trapped. "Schmidt's bitter wit . . . calls to mind Lorrie Moore," Emily Hall said here last year. "Her precise and elegant prose is smart and artful."

ICE TIME: A Tale of Fathers, Sons, and Hometown Heroes, by Jay Atkinson. (Three Rivers, $13.) The author tells of a year he spent as assistant coach for his old high school hockey team, in the process making a case for hockey as a guide to life. His memoir is "admirably modest, blue-collar and Northern to the core," Stephan Talty wrote here in 2001. Scott Veale

GRAPHIC: Photos (Jerry Bauer; J. Andrew Hallowell) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (92%); WRITERS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); LITERATURE (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



576 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 7883 words

HEADLINE: For Richer 

BYLINE:  By Paul Krugman; Paul Krugman is a Times columnist and a professor at Princeton.

 BODY:
I.The Disappearing Middle
When I was a teenager growing up on Long Island, one of my favorite excursions was a trip to see the great Gilded Age mansions of the North Shore. Those mansions weren't just pieces of architectural history. They were monuments to a bygone social era, one in which the rich could afford the armies of servants needed to maintain a house the size of a European palace. By the time I saw them, of course, that era was long past. Almost none of the Long Island mansions were still private residences. Those that hadn't been turned into museums were occupied by nursing homes or private schools.
 For the America I grew up in -- the America of the 1950's and 1960's -- was a middle-class society, both in reality and in feel. The vast income and wealth inequalities of the Gilded Age had disappeared. Yes, of course, there was the poverty of the underclass -- but the conventional wisdom of the time viewed that as a social rather than an economic problem. Yes, of course, some wealthy businessmen and heirs to large fortunes lived far better than the average American. But they weren't rich the way the robber barons who built the mansions had been rich, and there weren't that many of them. The days when plutocrats were a force to be reckoned with in American society, economically or politically, seemed long past. 
 Daily experience confirmed the sense of a fairly equal society. The economic disparities you were conscious of were quite muted. Highly educated professionals -- middle managers, college teachers, even lawyers -- often claimed that they earned less than unionized blue-collar workers. Those considered very well off lived in split-levels, had a housecleaner come in once a week and took summer vacations in Europe. But they sent their kids to public schools and drove themselves to work, just like everyone else.
But that was long ago. The middle-class America of my youth was another country.
We are now living in a new Gilded Age, as extravagant as the original. Mansions have made a comeback. Back in 1999 this magazine profiled Thierry Despont, the "eminence of excess," an architect who specializes in designing houses for the superrich. His creations typically range from 20,000 to 60,000 square feet; houses at the upper end of his range are not much smaller than the White House. Needless to say, the armies of servants are back, too. So are the yachts. Still, even J.P. Morgan didn't have a Gulfstream.
As the story about Despont suggests, it's not fair to say that the fact of widening inequality in America has gone unreported. Yet glimpses of the lifestyles of the rich and tasteless don't necessarily add up in people's minds to a clear picture of the tectonic shifts that have taken place in the distribution of income and wealth in this country. My sense is that few people are aware of just how much the gap between the very rich and the rest has widened over a relatively short period of time. In fact, even bringing up the subject exposes you to charges of "class warfare," the "politics of envy" and so on. And very few people indeed are willing to talk about the profound effects -- economic, social and political -- of that widening gap. 
Yet you can't understand what's happening in America today without understanding the extent, causes and consequences of the vast increase in inequality that has taken place over the last three decades, and in particular the astonishing concentration of income and wealth in just a few hands. To make sense of the current wave of corporate scandal, you need to understand how the man in the gray flannel suit has been replaced by the imperial C.E.O. The concentration of income at the top is a key reason that the United States, for all its economic achievements, has more poverty and lower life expectancy than any other major advanced nation. Above all, the growing concentration of wealth has reshaped our political system: it is at the root both of a general shift to the right and of an extreme polarization of our politics.
But before we get to all that, let's take a look at who gets what.

II. The New Gilded Age
The Securities and Exchange Commission hath no fury like a woman scorned. The messy divorce proceedings of Jack Welch, the legendary former C.E.O. of General Electric, have had one unintended benefit: they have given us a peek at the perks of the corporate elite, which are normally hidden from public view. For it turns out that when Welch retired, he was granted for life the use of a Manhattan apartment (including food, wine and laundry), access to corporate jets and a variety of other in-kind benefits, worth at least $2 million a year. The perks were revealing: they illustrated the extent to which corporate leaders now expect to be treated like ancien regime royalty. In monetary terms, however, the perks must have meant little to Welch. In 2000, his last full year running G.E., Welch was paid $123 million, mainly in stock and stock options.
Is it news that C.E.O.'s of large American corporations make a lot of money? Actually, it is. They were always well paid compared with the average worker, but there is simply no comparison between what executives got a generation ago and what they are paid today.
Over the past 30 years most people have seen only modest salary increases: the average annual salary in America, expressed in 1998 dollars (that is, adjusted for inflation), rose from $32,522 in 1970 to $35,864 in 1999. That's about a 10 percent increase over 29 years -- progress, but not much. Over the same period, however, according to Fortune magazine, the average real annual compensation of the top 100 C.E.O.'s went from $1.3 million -- 39 times the pay of an average worker -- to $37.5 million, more than 1,000 times the pay of ordinary workers.
The explosion in C.E.O. pay over the past 30 years is an amazing story in its own right, and an important one. But it is only the most spectacular indicator of a broader story, the reconcentration of income and wealth in the U.S. The rich have always been different from you and me, but they are far more different now than they were not long ago -- indeed, they are as different now as they were when F. Scott Fitzgerald made his famous remark.
That's a controversial statement, though it shouldn't be. For at least the past 15 years it has been hard to deny the evidence for growing inequality in the United States. Census data clearly show a rising share of income going to the top 20 percent of families, and within that top 20 percent to the top 5 percent, with a declining share going to families in the middle. Nonetheless, denial of that evidence is a sizable, well-financed industry. Conservative think tanks have produced scores of studies that try to discredit the data, the methodology and, not least, the motives of those who report the obvious. Studies that appear to refute claims of increasing inequality receive prominent endorsements on editorial pages and are eagerly cited by right-leaning government officials. Four years ago Alan Greenspan (why did anyone ever think that he was nonpartisan?) gave a keynote speech at the Federal Reserve's annual Jackson Hole conference that amounted to an attempt to deny that there has been any real increase in inequality in America. 
The concerted effort to deny that inequality is increasing is itself a symptom of the growing influence of our emerging plutocracy (more on this later). So is the fierce defense of the backup position, that inequality doesn't matter -- or maybe even that, to use Martha Stewart's signature phrase, it's a good thing. Meanwhile, politically motivated smoke screens aside, the reality of increasing inequality is not in doubt. In fact, the census data understate the case, because for technical reasons those data tend to undercount very high incomes -- for example, it's unlikely that they reflect the explosion in C.E.O. compensation. And other evidence makes it clear not only that inequality is increasing but that the action gets bigger the closer you get to the top. That is, it's not simply that the top 20 percent of families have had bigger percentage gains than families near the middle: the top 5 percent have done better than the next 15, the top 1 percent better than the next 4, and so on up to Bill Gates.
Studies that try to do a better job of tracking high incomes have found startling results. For example, a recent study by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office used income tax data and other sources to improve on the census estimates. The C.B.O. study found that between 1979 and 1997, the after-tax incomes of the top 1 percent of families rose 157 percent, compared with only a 10 percent gain for families near the middle of the income distribution. Even more startling results come from a new study by Thomas Piketty, at the French research institute Cepremap, and Emmanuel Saez, who is now at the University of California at Berkeley. Using income tax data, Piketty and Saez have produced estimates of the incomes of the well-to-do, the rich and the very rich back to 1913.
The first point you learn from these new estimates is that the middle-class America of my youth is best thought of not as the normal state of our society, but as an interregnum between Gilded Ages. America before 1930 was a society in which a small number of very rich people controlled a large share of the nation's wealth. We became a middle-class society only after the concentration of income at the top dropped sharply during the New Deal, and especially during World War II. The economic historians Claudia Goldin and Robert Margo have dubbed the narrowing of income gaps during those years the Great Compression. Incomes then stayed fairly equally distributed until the 1970's: the rapid rise in incomes during the first postwar generation was very evenly spread across the population.
Since the 1970's, however, income gaps have been rapidly widening. Piketty and Saez confirm what I suspected: by most measures we are, in fact, back to the days of "The Great Gatsby." After 30 years in which the income shares of the top 10 percent of taxpayers, the top 1 percent and so on were far below their levels in the 1920's, all are very nearly back where they were.
And the big winners are the very, very rich. One ploy often used to play down growing inequality is to rely on rather coarse statistical breakdowns -- dividing the population into five "quintiles," each containing 20 percent of families, or at most 10 "deciles." Indeed, Greenspan's speech at Jackson Hole relied mainly on decile data. From there it's a short step to denying that we're really talking about the rich at all. For example, a conservative commentator might concede, grudgingly, that there has been some increase in the share of national income going to the top 10 percent of taxpayers, but then point out that anyone with an income over $81,000 is in that top 10 percent. So we're just talking about shifts within the middle class, right?
Wrong: the top 10 percent contains a lot of people whom we would still consider middle class, but they weren't the big winners. Most of the gains in the share of the top 10 percent of taxpayers over the past 30 years were actually gains to the top 1 percent, rather than the next 9 percent. In 1998 the top 1 percent started at $230,000. In turn, 60 percent of the gains of that top 1 percent went to the top 0.1 percent, those with incomes of more than $790,000. And almost half of those gains went to a mere 13,000 taxpayers, the top 0.01 percent, who had an income of at least $3.6 million and an average income of $17 million.
A stickler for detail might point out that the Piketty-Saez estimates end in 1998 and that the C.B.O. numbers end a year earlier. Have the trends shown in the data reversed? Almost surely not. In fact, all indications are that the explosion of incomes at the top continued through 2000. Since then the plunge in stock prices must have put some crimp in high incomes -- but census data show inequality continuing to increase in 2001, mainly because of the severe effects of the recession on the working poor and near poor. When the recession ends, we can be sure that we will find ourselves a society in which income inequality is even higher than it was in the late 90's.
So claims that we've entered a second Gilded Age aren't exaggerated. In America's middle-class era, the mansion-building, yacht-owning classes had pretty much disappeared. According to Piketty and Saez, in 1970 the top 0.01 percent of taxpayers had 0.7 percent of total income -- that is, they earned "only" 70 times as much as the average, not enough to buy or maintain a mega-residence. But in 1998 the top 0.01 percent received more than 3 percent of all income. That meant that the 13,000 richest families in America had almost as much income as the 20 million poorest households; those 13,000 families had incomes 300 times that of average families.
And let me repeat: this transformation has happened very quickly, and it is still going on. You might think that 1987, the year Tom Wolfe published his novel "The Bonfire of the Vanities" and Oliver Stone released his movie "Wall Street," marked the high tide of America's new money culture. But in 1987 the top 0.01 percent earned only about 40 percent of what they do today, and top executives less than a fifth as much. The America of "Wall Street" and "The Bonfire of the Vanities" was positively egalitarian compared with the country we live in today.

III. Undoing the New Deal
In the middle of the 1980's, as economists became aware that something important was happening to the distribution of income in America, they formulated three main hypotheses about its causes.
The "globalization" hypothesis tied America's changing income distribution to the growth of world trade, and especially the growing imports of manufactured goods from the third world. Its basic message was that blue-collar workers -- the sort of people who in my youth often made as much money as college-educated middle managers -- were losing ground in the face of competition from low-wage workers in Asia. A result was stagnation or decline in the wages of ordinary people, with a growing share of national income going to the highly educated.
A second hypothesis, "skill-biased technological change," situated the cause of growing inequality not in foreign trade but in domestic innovation. The torrid pace of progress in information technology, so the story went, had increased the demand for the highly skilled and educated. And so the income distribution increasingly favored brains rather than brawn.
Finally, the "superstar" hypothesis -- named by the Chicago economist Sherwin Rosen -- offered a variant on the technological story. It argued that modern technologies of communication often turn competition into a tournament in which the winner is richly rewarded, while the runners-up get far less. The classic example -- which gives the theory its name -- is the entertainment business. As Rosen pointed out, in bygone days there were hundreds of comedians making a modest living at live shows in the borscht belt and other places. Now they are mostly gone; what is left is a handful of superstar TV comedians.
The debates among these hypotheses -- particularly the debate between those who attributed growing inequality to globalization and those who attributed it to technology -- were many and bitter. I was a participant in those debates myself. But I won't dwell on them, because in the last few years there has been a growing sense among economists that none of these hypotheses work. 
I don't mean to say that there was nothing to these stories. Yet as more evidence has accumulated, each of the hypotheses has seemed increasingly inadequate. Globalization can explain part of the relative decline in blue-collar wages, but it can't explain the 2,500 percent rise in C.E.O. incomes. Technology may explain why the salary premium associated with a college education has risen, but it's hard to match up with the huge increase in inequality among the college-educated, with little progress for many but gigantic gains at the top. The superstar theory works for Jay Leno, but not for the thousands of people who have become awesomely rich without going on TV.
The Great Compression -- the substantial reduction in inequality during the New Deal and the Second World War -- also seems hard to understand in terms of the usual theories. During World War II Franklin Roosevelt used government control over wages to compress wage gaps. But if the middle-class society that emerged from the war was an artificial creation, why did it persist for another 30 years? 
Some -- by no means all -- economists trying to understand growing inequality have begun to take seriously a hypothesis that would have been considered irredeemably fuzzy-minded not long ago. This view stresses the role of social norms in setting limits to inequality. According to this view, the New Deal had a more profound impact on American society than even its most ardent admirers have suggested: it imposed norms of relative equality in pay that persisted for more than 30 years, creating the broadly middle-class society we came to take for granted. But those norms began to unravel in the 1970's and have done so at an accelerating pace.
Exhibit A for this view is the story of executive compensation. In the 1960's, America's great corporations behaved more like socialist republics than like cutthroat capitalist enterprises, and top executives behaved more like public-spirited bureaucrats than like captains of industry. I'm not exaggerating. Consider the description of executive behavior offered by John Kenneth Galbraith in his 1967 book, "The New Industrial State": "Management does not go out ruthlessly to reward itself -- a sound management is expected to exercise restraint." Managerial self-dealing was a thing of the past: "With the power of decision goes opportunity for making money. . . . Were everyone to seek to do so . . . the corporation would be a chaos of competitive avarice. But these are not the sort of thing that a good company man does; a remarkably effective code bans such behavior. Group decision-making insures, moreover, that almost everyone's actions and even thoughts are known to others. This acts to enforce the code and, more than incidentally, a high standard of personal honesty as well."
Thirty-five years on, a cover article in Fortune is titled "You Bought. They Sold." "All over corporate America," reads the blurb, "top execs were cashing in stocks even as their companies were tanking. Who was left holding the bag? You." As I said, we've become a different country.
Let's leave actual malfeasance on one side for a moment, and ask how the relatively modest salaries of top executives 30 years ago became the gigantic pay packages of today. There are two main stories, both of which emphasize changing norms rather than pure economics. The more optimistic story draws an analogy between the explosion of C.E.O. pay and the explosion of baseball salaries with the introduction of free agency. According to this story, highly paid C.E.O.'s really are worth it, because having the right man in that job makes a huge difference. The more pessimistic view -- which I find more plausible -- is that competition for talent is a minor factor. Yes, a great executive can make a big difference -- but those huge pay packages have been going as often as not to executives whose performance is mediocre at best. The key reason executives are paid so much now is that they appoint the members of the corporate board that determines their compensation and control many of the perks that board members count on. So it's not the invisible hand of the market that leads to those monumental executive incomes; it's the invisible handshake in the boardroom.
But then why weren't executives paid lavishly 30 years ago? Again, it's a matter of corporate culture. For a generation after World War II, fear of outrage kept executive salaries in check. Now the outrage is gone. That is, the explosion of executive pay represents a social change rather than the purely economic forces of supply and demand. We should think of it not as a market trend like the rising value of waterfront property, but as something more like the sexual revolution of the 1960's -- a relaxation of old strictures, a new permissiveness, but in this case the permissiveness is financial rather than sexual. Sure enough, John Kenneth Galbraith described the honest executive of 1967 as being one who "eschews the lovely, available and even naked woman by whom he is intimately surrounded." By the end of the 1990's, the executive motto might as well have been "If it feels good, do it."
How did this change in corporate culture happen? Economists and management theorists are only beginning to explore that question, but it's easy to suggest a few factors. One was the changing structure of financial markets. In his new book, "Searching for a Corporate Savior," Rakesh Khurana of Harvard Business School suggests that during the 1980's and 1990's, "managerial capitalism" -- the world of the man in the gray flannel suit -- was replaced by "investor capitalism." Institutional investors weren't willing to let a C.E.O. choose his own successor from inside the corporation; they wanted heroic leaders, often outsiders, and were willing to pay immense sums to get them. The subtitle of Khurana's book, by the way, is "The Irrational Quest for Charismatic C.E.O.'s." 
But fashionable management theorists didn't think it was irrational. Since the 1980's there has been ever more emphasis on the importance of "leadership" -- meaning personal, charismatic leadership. When Lee Iacocca of Chrysler became a business celebrity in the early 1980's, he was practically alone: Khurana reports that in 1980 only one issue of Business Week featured a C.E.O. on its cover. By 1999 the number was up to 19. And once it was considered normal, even necessary, for a C.E.O. to be famous, it also became easier to make him rich.
Economists also did their bit to legitimize previously unthinkable levels of executive pay. During the 1980's and 1990's a torrent of academic papers -- popularized in business magazines and incorporated into consultants' recommendations -- argued that Gordon Gekko was right: greed is good; greed works. In order to get the best performance out of executives, these papers argued, it was necessary to align their interests with those of stockholders. And the way to do that was with large grants of stock or stock options.
It's hard to escape the suspicion that these new intellectual justifications for soaring executive pay were as much effect as cause. I'm not suggesting that management theorists and economists were personally corrupt. It would have been a subtle, unconscious process: the ideas that were taken up by business schools, that led to nice speaking and consulting fees, tended to be the ones that ratified an existing trend, and thereby gave it legitimacy.
What economists like Piketty and Saez are now suggesting is that the story of executive compensation is representative of a broader story. Much more than economists and free-market advocates like to imagine, wages -- particularly at the top -- are determined by social norms. What happened during the 1930's and 1940's was that new norms of equality were established, largely through the political process. What happened in the 1980's and 1990's was that those norms unraveled, replaced by an ethos of "anything goes." And a result was an explosion of income at the top of the scale.

IV. The Price of Inequality
It was one of those revealing moments. Responding to an e-mail message from a Canadian viewer, Robert Novak of "Crossfire" delivered a little speech: "Marg, like most Canadians, you're ill informed and wrong. The U.S. has the longest standard of living -- longest life expectancy of any country in the world, including Canada. That's the truth."
But it was Novak who had his facts wrong. Canadians can expect to live about two years longer than Americans. In fact, life expectancy in the U.S. is well below that in Canada, Japan and every major nation in Western Europe. On average, we can expect lives a bit shorter than those of Greeks, a bit longer than those of Portuguese. Male life expectancy is lower in the U.S. than it is in Costa Rica.
Still, you can understand why Novak assumed that we were No. 1. After all, we really are the richest major nation, with real G.D.P. per capita about 20 percent higher than Canada's. And it has been an article of faith in this country that a rising tide lifts all boats. Doesn't our high and rising national wealth translate into a high standard of living -- including good medical care -- for all Americans?
Well, no. Although America has higher per capita income than other advanced countries, it turns out that that's mainly because our rich are much richer. And here's a radical thought: if the rich get more, that leaves less for everyone else.
That statement -- which is simply a matter of arithmetic -- is guaranteed to bring accusations of "class warfare." If the accuser gets more specific, he'll probably offer two reasons that it's foolish to make a fuss over the high incomes of a few people at the top of the income distribution. First, he'll tell you that what the elite get may look like a lot of money, but it's still a small share of the total -- that is, when all is said and done the rich aren't getting that big a piece of the pie. Second, he'll tell you that trying to do anything to reduce incomes at the top will hurt, not help, people further down the distribution, because attempts to redistribute income damage incentives.
These arguments for lack of concern are plausible. And they were entirely correct, once upon a time -- namely, back when we had a middle-class society. But there's a lot less truth to them now.
First, the share of the rich in total income is no longer trivial. These days 1 percent of families receive about 16 percent of total pretax income, and have about 14 percent of after-tax income. That share has roughly doubled over the past 30 years, and is now about as large as the share of the bottom 40 percent of the population. That's a big shift of income to the top; as a matter of pure arithmetic, it must mean that the incomes of less well off families grew considerably more slowly than average income. And they did. Adjusting for inflation, average family income -- total income divided by the number of families -- grew 28 percent from 1979 to 1997. But median family income -- the income of a family in the middle of the distribution, a better indicator of how typical American families are doing -- grew only 10 percent. And the incomes of the bottom fifth of families actually fell slightly. 
Let me belabor this point for a bit. We pride ourselves, with considerable justification, on our record of economic growth. But over the last few decades it's remarkable how little of that growth has trickled down to ordinary families. Median family income has risen only about 0.5 percent per year -- and as far as we can tell from somewhat unreliable data, just about all of that increase was due to wives working longer hours, with little or no gain in real wages. Furthermore, numbers about income don't reflect the growing riskiness of life for ordinary workers. In the days when General Motors was known in-house as Generous Motors, many workers felt that they had considerable job security -- the company wouldn't fire them except in extremis. Many had contracts that guaranteed health insurance, even if they were laid off; they had pension benefits that did not depend on the stock market. Now mass firings from long-established companies are commonplace; losing your job means losing your insurance; and as millions of people have been learning, a 401(k) plan is no guarantee of a comfortable retirement.
Still, many people will say that while the U.S. economic system may generate a lot of inequality, it also generates much higher incomes than any alternative, so that everyone is better off. That was the moral Business Week tried to convey in its recent special issue with "25 Ideas for a Changing World." One of those ideas was "the rich get richer, and that's O.K." High incomes at the top, the conventional wisdom declares, are the result of a free-market system that provides huge incentives for performance. And the system delivers that performance, which means that wealth at the top doesn't come at the expense of the rest of us.
A skeptic might point out that the explosion in executive compensation seems at best loosely related to actual performance. Jack Welch was one of the 10 highest-paid executives in the United States in 2000, and you could argue that he earned it. But did Dennis Kozlowski of Tyco, or Gerald Levin of Time Warner, who were also in the top 10? A skeptic might also point out that even during the economic boom of the late 1990's, U.S. productivity growth was no better than it was during the great postwar expansion, which corresponds to the era when America was truly middle class and C.E.O.'s were modestly paid technocrats.
But can we produce any direct evidence about the effects of inequality? We can't rerun our own history and ask what would have happened if the social norms of middle-class America had continued to limit incomes at the top, and if government policy had leaned against rising inequality instead of reinforcing it, which is what actually happened. But we can compare ourselves with other advanced countries. And the results are somewhat surprising.
Many Americans assume that because we are the richest country in the world, with real G.D.P. per capita higher than that of other major advanced countries, Americans must be better off across the board -- that it's not just our rich who are richer than their counterparts abroad, but that the typical American family is much better off than the typical family elsewhere, and that even our poor are well off by foreign standards.
But it's not true. Let me use the example of Sweden, that great conservative bete noire.
A few months ago the conservative cyberpundit Glenn Reynolds made a splash when he pointed out that Sweden's G.D.P. per capita is roughly comparable with that of Mississippi -- see, those foolish believers in the welfare state have impoverished themselves! Presumably he assumed that this means that the typical Swede is as poor as the typical resident of Mississippi, and therefore much worse off than the typical American.
But life expectancy in Sweden is about three years higher than that of the U.S. Infant mortality is half the U.S. level, and less than a third the rate in Mississippi. Functional illiteracy is much less common than in the U.S. 
How is this possible? One answer is that G.D.P. per capita is in some ways a misleading measure. Swedes take longer vacations than Americans, so they work fewer hours per year. That's a choice, not a failure of economic performance. Real G.D.P. per hour worked is 16 percent lower than in the United States, which makes Swedish productivity about the same as Canada's. 
But the main point is that though Sweden may have lower average income than the United States, that's mainly because our rich are so much richer. The median Swedish family has a standard of living roughly comparable with that of the median U.S. family: wages are if anything higher in Sweden, and a higher tax burden is offset by public provision of health care and generally better public services. And as you move further down the income distribution, Swedish living standards are way ahead of those in the U.S. Swedish families with children that are at the 10th percentile -- poorer than 90 percent of the population -- have incomes 60 percent higher than their U.S. counterparts. And very few people in Sweden experience the deep poverty that is all too common in the United States. One measure: in 1994 only 6 percent of Swedes lived on less than $11 per day, compared with 14 percent in the U.S.
The moral of this comparison is that even if you think that America's high levels of inequality are the price of our high level of national income, it's not at all clear that this price is worth paying. The reason conservatives engage in bouts of Sweden-bashing is that they want to convince us that there is no tradeoff between economic efficiency and equity -- that if you try to take from the rich and give to the poor, you actually make everyone worse off. But the comparison between the U.S. and other advanced countries doesn't support this conclusion at all. Yes, we are the richest major nation. But because so much of our national income is concentrated in relatively few hands, large numbers of Americans are worse off economically than their counterparts in other advanced countries.
And we might even offer a challenge from the other side: inequality in the United States has arguably reached levels where it is counterproductive. That is, you can make a case that our society would be richer if its richest members didn't get quite so much. 
I could make this argument on historical grounds. The most impressive economic growth in U.S. history coincided with the middle-class interregnum, the post-World War II generation, when incomes were most evenly distributed. But let's focus on a specific case, the extraordinary pay packages of today's top executives. Are these good for the economy?
Until recently it was almost unchallenged conventional wisdom that, whatever else you might say, the new imperial C.E.O.'s had delivered results that dwarfed the expense of their compensation. But now that the stock bubble has burst, it has become increasingly clear that there was a price to those big pay packages, after all. In fact, the price paid by shareholders and society at large may have been many times larger than the amount actually paid to the executives.
It's easy to get boggled by the details of corporate scandal -- insider loans, stock options, special-purpose entities, mark-to-market, round-tripping. But there's a simple reason that the details are so complicated. All of these schemes were designed to benefit corporate insiders -- to inflate the pay of the C.E.O. and his inner circle. That is, they were all about the "chaos of competitive avarice" that, according to John Kenneth Galbraith, had been ruled out in the corporation of the 1960's. But while all restraint has vanished within the American corporation, the outside world -- including stockholders -- is still prudish, and open looting by executives is still not acceptable. So the looting has to be camouflaged, taking place through complicated schemes that can be rationalized to outsiders as clever corporate strategies. 
Economists who study crime tell us that crime is inefficient -- that is, the costs of crime to the economy are much larger than the amount stolen. Crime, and the fear of crime, divert resources away from productive uses: criminals spend their time stealing rather than producing, and potential victims spend time and money trying to protect their property. Also, the things people do to avoid becoming victims -- like avoiding dangerous districts -- have a cost even if they succeed in averting an actual crime.
The same holds true of corporate malfeasance, whether or not it actually involves breaking the law. Executives who devote their time to creating innovative ways to divert shareholder money into their own pockets probably aren't running the real business very well (think Enron, WorldCom, Tyco, Global Crossing, Adelphia . . . ). Investments chosen because they create the illusion of profitability while insiders cash in their stock options are a waste of scarce resources. And if the supply of funds from lenders and shareholders dries up because of a lack of trust, the economy as a whole suffers. Just ask Indonesia.
The argument for a system in which some people get very rich has always been that the lure of wealth provides powerful incentives. But the question is, incentives to do what? As we learn more about what has actually been going on in corporate America, it's becoming less and less clear whether those incentives have actually made executives work on behalf of the rest of us.

V. Inequality and Politics
In September the Senate debated a proposed measure that would impose a one-time capital gains tax on Americans who renounce their citizenship in order to avoid paying U.S. taxes. Senator Phil Gramm was not pleased, declaring that the proposal was "right out of Nazi Germany." Pretty strong language, but no stronger than the metaphor Daniel Mitchell of the Heritage Foundation used, in an op-ed article in The Washington Times, to describe a bill designed to prevent corporations from rechartering abroad for tax purposes: Mitchell described this legislation as the "Dred Scott tax bill," referring to the infamous 1857 Supreme Court ruling that required free states to return escaped slaves.
Twenty years ago, would a prominent senator have likened those who want wealthy people to pay taxes to Nazis? Would a member of a think tank with close ties to the administration have drawn a parallel between corporate taxation and slavery? I don't think so. The remarks by Gramm and Mitchell, while stronger than usual, were indicators of two huge changes in American politics. One is the growing polarization of our politics -- our politicians are less and less inclined to offer even the appearance of moderation. The other is the growing tendency of policy and policy makers to cater to the interests of the wealthy. And I mean the wealthy, not the merely well-off: only someone with a net worth of at least several million dollars is likely to find it worthwhile to become a tax exile. 
You don't need a political scientist to tell you that modern American politics is bitterly polarized. But wasn't it always thus? No, it wasn't. From World War II until the 1970's -- the same era during which income inequality was historically low -- political partisanship was much more muted than it is today. That's not just a subjective assessment. My Princeton political science colleagues Nolan McCarty and Howard Rosenthal, together with Keith Poole at the University of Houston, have done a statistical analysis showing that the voting behavior of a congressman is much better predicted by his party affiliation today than it was 25 years ago. In fact, the division between the parties is sharper now than it has been since the 1920's.
What are the parties divided about? The answer is simple: economics. McCarty, Rosenthal and Poole write that "voting in Congress is highly ideological -- one-dimensional left/right, liberal versus conservative." It may sound simplistic to describe Democrats as the party that wants to tax the rich and help the poor, and Republicans as the party that wants to keep taxes and social spending as low as possible. And during the era of middle-class America that would indeed have been simplistic: politics wasn't defined by economic issues. But that was a different country; as McCarty, Rosenthal and Poole put it, "If income and wealth are distributed in a fairly equitable way, little is to be gained for politicians to organize politics around nonexistent conflicts." Now the conflicts are real, and our politics is organized around them. In other words, the growing inequality of our incomes probably lies behind the growing divisiveness of our politics.
But the politics of rich and poor hasn't played out the way you might think. Since the incomes of America's wealthy have soared while ordinary families have seen at best small gains, you might have expected politicians to seek votes by proposing to soak the rich. In fact, however, the polarization of politics has occurred because the Republicans have moved to the right, not because the Democrats have moved to the left. And actual economic policy has moved steadily in favor of the wealthy. The major tax cuts of the past 25 years, the Reagan cuts in the 1980's and the recent Bush cuts, were both heavily tilted toward the very well off. (Despite obfuscations, it remains true that more than half the Bush tax cut will eventually go to the top 1 percent of families.) The major tax increase over that period, the increase in payroll taxes in the 1980's, fell most heavily on working-class families. 
The most remarkable example of how politics has shifted in favor of the wealthy -- an example that helps us understand why economic policy has reinforced, not countered, the movement toward greater inequality -- is the drive to repeal the estate tax. The estate tax is, overwhelmingly, a tax on the wealthy. In 1999, only the top 2 percent of estates paid any tax at all, and half the estate tax was paid by only 3,300 estates, 0.16 percent of the total, with a minimum value of $5 million and an average value of $17 million. A quarter of the tax was paid by just 467 estates worth more than $20 million. Tales of family farms and businesses broken up to pay the estate tax are basically rural legends; hardly any real examples have been found, despite diligent searching.
You might have thought that a tax that falls on so few people yet yields a significant amount of revenue would be politically popular; you certainly wouldn't expect widespread opposition. Moreover, there has long been an argument that the estate tax promotes democratic values, precisely because it limits the ability of the wealthy to form dynasties. So why has there been a powerful political drive to repeal the estate tax, and why was such a repeal a centerpiece of the Bush tax cut? 
There is an economic argument for repealing the estate tax, but it's hard to believe that many people take it seriously. More significant for members of Congress, surely, is the question of who would benefit from repeal: while those who will actually benefit from estate tax repeal are few in number, they have a lot of money and control even more (corporate C.E.O.'s can now count on leaving taxable estates behind). That is, they are the sort of people who command the attention of politicians in search of campaign funds.
But it's not just about campaign contributions: much of the general public has been convinced that the estate tax is a bad thing. If you try talking about the tax to a group of moderately prosperous retirees, you get some interesting reactions. They refer to it as the "death tax"; many of them believe that their estates will face punitive taxation, even though most of them will pay little or nothing; they are convinced that small businesses and family farms bear the brunt of the tax.
These misconceptions don't arise by accident. They have, instead, been deliberately promoted. For example, a Heritage Foundation document titled "Time to Repeal Federal Death Taxes: The Nightmare of the American Dream" emphasizes stories that rarely, if ever, happen in real life: "Small-business owners, particularly minority owners, suffer anxious moments wondering whether the businesses they hope to hand down to their children will be destroyed by the death tax bill, . . . Women whose children are grown struggle to find ways to re-enter the work force without upsetting the family's estate tax avoidance plan." And who finances the Heritage Foundation? Why, foundations created by wealthy families, of course.
The point is that it is no accident that strongly conservative views, views that militate against taxes on the rich, have spread even as the rich get richer compared with the rest of us: in addition to directly buying influence, money can be used to shape public perceptions. The liberal group People for the American Way's report on how conservative foundations have deployed vast sums to support think tanks, friendly media and other institutions that promote right-wing causes is titled "Buying a Movement." 
Not to put too fine a point on it: as the rich get richer, they can buy a lot of things besides goods and services. Money buys political influence; used cleverly, it also buys intellectual influence. A result is that growing income disparities in the United States, far from leading to demands to soak the rich, have been accompanied by a growing movement to let them keep more of their earnings and to pass their wealth on to their children.
This obviously raises the possibility of a self-reinforcing process. As the gap between the rich and the rest of the population grows, economic policy increasingly caters to the interests of the elite, while public services for the population at large -- above all, public education -- are starved of resources. As policy increasingly favors the interests of the rich and neglects the interests of the general population, income disparities grow even wider.

VI. Plutocracy?
In 1924, the mansions of Long Island's North Shore were still in their full glory, as was the political power of the class that owned them. When Gov. Al Smith of New York proposed building a system of parks on Long Island, the mansion owners were bitterly opposed. One baron -- Horace Havemeyer, the "sultan of sugar" -- warned that North Shore towns would be "overrun with rabble from the city." "Rabble?" Smith said. "That's me you're talking about." In the end New Yorkers got their parks, but it was close: the interests of a few hundred wealthy families nearly prevailed over those of New York City's middle class.
America in the 1920's wasn't a feudal society. But it was a nation in which vast privilege -- often inherited privilege -- stood in contrast to vast misery. It was also a nation in which the government, more often than not, served the interests of the privileged and ignored the aspirations of ordinary people.
Those days are past -- or are they? Income inequality in America has now returned to the levels of the 1920's. Inherited wealth doesn't yet play a big part in our society, but given time -- and the repeal of the estate tax -- we will grow ourselves a hereditary elite just as set apart from the concerns of ordinary Americans as old Horace Havemeyer. And the new elite, like the old, will have enormous political power.
Kevin Phillips concludes his book "Wealth and Democracy" with a grim warning: "Either democracy must be renewed, with politics brought back to life, or wealth is likely to cement a new and less democratic regime -- plutocracy by some other name." It's a pretty extreme line, but we live in extreme times. Even if the forms of democracy remain, they may become meaningless. It's all too easy to see how we may become a country in which the big rewards are reserved for people with the right connections; in which ordinary people see little hope of advancement; in which political involvement seems pointless, because in the end the interests of the elite always get served.
Am I being too pessimistic? Even my liberal friends tell me not to worry, that our system has great resilience, that the center will hold. I hope they're right, but they may be looking in the rearview mirror. Our optimism about America, our belief that in the end our nation always finds its way, comes from the past -- a past in which we were a middle-class society. But that was another country. 

GRAPHIC: Photos (Geof Kern for The New York Times; Jessica Cragi-Martin; Stacy Arezou Mehrfar) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



577 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: For the Web Generation, Travel Is Self-Service 

BYLINE:  By BOB TEDESCHI 

 BODY:
WHEN Enda Carey booked his first trip on the Internet in 1998, a journey from New York to Argentina and Brazil, he wasn't immediately convinced that what he'd done was real. 
 "I remember thinking it must've been a mistake," said Mr. Carey, a vice president at J. P. Morgan Chase in New York. "I didn't really believe it until the tickets were in my hands." 
 It is, perhaps, equally difficult to grasp the depth of the change wrought by the Internet on the travel industry in the four years since then, and the eight years since companies first lined up on the Web in earnest to reach wired travelers. 
Statistics help tell part of the story: more than 61 million households in the United States will book travel online this year, according to Forrester Research, a technology consultant. They will spend roughly $20 billion on those bookings, or 10 percent of the travel industry total. At $13.2 billion, airline bookings make up by far the greatest share of that figure, but hotel bookings are growing fastest. 
And those numbers will arc ever higher; Forrester expects online hotel bookings to more than double over the next four years, to $7.7 billion from $3.8 billion. Already, travel is by far the No. 1 activity among Internet consumers. According to ComScore Networks, travel-related purchases accounted for about 43 percent of online consumer spending in the first half of this year. In some weeks, more travel is purchased online than every other category combined.
The typical consumer making travel arrangements online, while edging toward the mainstream with every passing year, remains slightly upscale, according to Forrester. The average individual is 44, and lives in a household with income of $76,000 a year. Fifty-three percent are male, 60 percent are college graduates, and 55 percent hold professional or managerial jobs.
While numbers help show the current state of the industry, they fail to convey the multitude of subtle and not-so-subtle behavioral shifts the Web has brought to consumers -- and foisted on travel suppliers and travel agents.
Mr. Carey said he had to invest an evening of Internet surfing to find his fare four years ago, which he booked on Expedia. Until buying that ticket, Mr. Carey said he relied exclusively on travel agents. 
"I can afford to spend more time researching fares," he said. "Travel agents have to get you out of the chain with a ticket as fast as they can."
The self-serve generation has also become the last-minute generation. Analysts say online buyers have been "trained" by airlines, hotels and rental car agencies to be on the lookout for 11th-hour bargains, as companies scramble to fill seats.
Of course, there are others who resist online booking, but still rely on the Internet to find good fares. Sheryl Victorson, an office manager at the Veterans Administration in Boston, said that she regularly checked the Web for bargains, but that she called the airlines directly when she found them.
"I have a little bit of a hang-up, giving my credit card online," Ms. Victorson said. "And I like having a one-on-one relationship with a place I'm doing business with. But I've definitely saved money by looking online." 
As for the impact of the Internet on travel suppliers, a typical case is that of Sanjiv Patel, who owns and operates the Red Carpet Inn in Albany. Like many of the 240 franchisees in the Hospitality International chain, it is a modest hotel, with rates typically $50 to $55 a night. Before this year, Mr. Patel said the franchise didn't have the ability to accept reservations online, and lost considerable business to Marriott, Fairfield Inn and other competitors.
When the company started offering Internet reservations in January, through middlemen, the impact was immediate: the hotel booked 25 percent more rooms over the previous year's level. This was a particularly meaningful number for Albany, Mr. Patel said, because competition there is high and occupancy rates hover around 73 percent; the national average is about 63 percent.
There was, however, a catch. When consumers book with the chain's hotels online, Mr. Patel said, they are often offered discounted rates usually given only to members of AAA or AARP, so the hotel gets 10 percent less on the room price. 
On top of that, Mr. Patel pays 8 to 10 percent to the company that links the hotel to a broad computerized reservation system listing all of Hospitality International's rooms on various Web sites. Then, the online travel agency where the consumer books the room takes a 10 percent cut, Mr. Patel said.
Even though the hotel earns nearly one-third less on each Internet sale, Mr. Patel deemed Internet bookings beneficial, saying, "You take what you can get." 
Indeed, the Web has been a double-edged sword for hotels, airlines and car rental agencies. Along with technology costs, the bargain-hunter mentality of online bookers -- and the ease of checking competitors' rates -- will continue to depress profits across the industry, analysts say.
The average air fare for a 1,000-mile one-way trip, for instance, was about $109 in August, according to BACK Aviation Solutions, an airline industry consulting firm, compared with $123 in January. And although the travails of the major carriers have contributed to that drop, analysts said Internet bookings are also to blame.
"It's a death spiral," said Henry Harteveldt, a Forrester analyst. "Consumers are buying much closer to their trips, which means more excess inventory for the suppliers, and more fire sales."
At the same time, though, suppliers are doing their best to sell more bookings directly to consumers through their own Web sites, thereby eliminating the types of costs that sting Mr. Patel. PhoCusWright, a travel industry consulting firm, estimates that airlines will save $200 million in travel agent commissions and other fees by selling tickets directly from their Web sites, while car rental companies and hotels will save another $200 million combined by doing so.
For airlines, at least, those savings "clearly offset any reduction in fares consumers are getting online," said Steven G. Casley, a founder of BACK Aviation. Which is why, Mr. Casley and other analysts said, consumers should expect to see travel suppliers pushing more deeply onto the Web in the coming months and years.
And, according to Mr. Harteveldt of Forrester, consumers can expect a host of other changes in the online travel area.
"Used to be, airlines differentiated themselves with service, but technology will now become the big differentiator," Mr. Harteveldt said. "Airlines and other sites will offer many more online options, like flight alerts, trip reminders."
Perhaps more important, he said, consumers will probably find a larger number of Internet bargains in the future, as suppliers encourage customers to buy online. "Fares that used to be $20 cheaper online from the same carrier for the same route will be $30 or $40 less," he said. "Companies will charge less per seat, or per room night, or per day for a car, because the consumer is using a less expensive sales channel."
Perhaps no group has been affected by the Internet more profoundly than travel agents. Seven years ago, travel agents sold $73 billion worth of airline tickets, according to the American Society of Travel Agents. This year, they will sell $60 to $65 billion, while online travel agencies like Expedia, Travelocity and others will sell between $15 and $20 billion.
Agents who had eked out a living by selling airline tickets -- as opposed to cruises or tours -- were hit particularly hard. At the same time that airlines began cutting (and ultimately eliminating) commissions for selling tickets, travelers like Mr. Carey discovered they could do better without the agents anyway.
But Richard M. Copland, a travel agent in New York who is the president of the American Society of Travel Agents, asserts that agents have managed to survive by selling more lucrative trips -- for instance, with tour companies that still pay healthy commissions. In other instances, Mr. Copland said, travel agents have been able to thrive by marking up fares they find on the Internet. 
"If I find a client a $2,000 trip for $400," Mr. Copland said, "I see no reason why I shouldn't be rewarded by charging a couple hundred bucks."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Enda Carey saves money booking online. Sanjiv Patel saw bookings at his Red Carpet Inn in Albany go up through the Internet. (Justin Lane for The New York Times); (Will Waldron for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (88%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RESERVATIONS (AIRLINES, HOTELS, ETC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HOTELS AND MOTELS 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FORRESTER RESEARCH 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); ARGENTINA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



578 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
Aeroflot Without Fear In Today's Russia

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
WHEN an airport manager announced a delay of a KrasAir flight from the Siberian airport of Krasnoyarsk to Moscow earlier this month, the explanation was, in its own way, reassuring: mechanics were fixing a malfunction in the plane.
 Considerably less reassuring was how long it took them to finish: 11 hours. 
 The passengers, meanwhile, roamed the dusty, cement-floored airport, arguing over plastic lawn chairs and slurping warm soft drinks while delays were announced an hour at a time.
For years, air travel in Russia's provinces has been uncomfortable and unpredictable. Fliers are herded into waiting rooms, often with too few seats, and then trucked to planes in trailerlike vehicles. Safety never really seemed to be a priority. 
But as surprising as it may seem, flight safety in Russia has improved dramatically since the chaotic days of the early 1990's, when the national airline, Aeroflot, was dismantled and Moscow could no longer control all parts of this country's vast civil aviation system.
From 1992 through 1995, crashes of scheduled flights killed 659 people -- far more than the 439 killed in the same period in the United States, a country with many more flying miles.
By 1996, the rate had fallen sharply. In the four years ending in 2000, only seven people were killed on scheduled flights, according to Russia's Interstate Aviation Committee.
Perhaps even more surprising, Aeroflot, still the butt of flight jokes in the West, has emerged from the past decade as Russia's safest airline, with no accidents with fatalities since 1996, when an Antonov-124 crashed killing 2 people out of the 33 on board, according to Airclaims Limited, a London-based aviation consulting firm.
Capitalism came to the Soviet-era behemoth in 1992. In that year, the government chopped it up into more than 300 smaller airlines, known as Babyflots. Now the flagship is a slimmed-down airline that operates a 112-plane fleet that includes new planes made by Airbus and Boeing used mostly for international flights.
But while the five biggest airlines, including Siberian Airlines and Transaero, have strong safety records, the entry into the free market created problems on the fringes. The privatized Babyflots were unprofitable and could not afford to upgrade aging fleets; safety suffered. 
Then there are the flocks of tiny airlines, such as Irs-Aero and Rus, virtually unregulated and without permanent time slots, that offer cheap charter flights.
The authorities this year warned that such flights had high accident rates -- 10 crashes for every 1 crash on scheduled flights, according to the Interstate Aviation Committee. In an interview with the Russian daily newspaper Izvestiya, a member of the committee said regulators would soon be closing down charter airlines.
Russia's improving safety record had a setback last year, with the crash of a Vladivostok Airlines Tupolev-154 plane near Irkutsk that killed 145 people. Since then, a string of crashes and close calls -- including several emergency landings of Tupolev planes, considered the workhorse of the Russian aviation industry -- have sent authorities scrambling for answers.
Aging fleets are a concern. Most analysts agree the Russian-made planes are well constructed. But cash-strapped airlines can skimp on repairs and maintenance, and the Russian government lacks resources to enforce rigorous checks.
"The reason we are seeing a higher rate of failures is because of lack of maintenance," said Igor Medzhibovsky, deputy director of Ilyushin Finance Company, a Moscow-based aircraft leasing company.
Regulators say they are trying. Russia's civil aviation chief, Aleksandr Neradko, in a recent interview with Russian news organizations, said the government closed 36 small airlines last year, about 12 percent of all airlines in Russia, in order to gain better control of the industry.
The state hired more regulators, and earmarked $130 million in its 2002 budget for flight safety, including improved maintenance. Late last month, Russia's civil aviation service announced it had begun reviewing safety standards of airlines with fewer than four planes, with the aim of closing those with low standards.
Even so, a report issued earlier this year by the Interstate Aviation Committee, which investigates accidents, noted the appearance of "new dangerous factors" in Russian air crashes. In several recent investigations, the authorities said they had determined that engines and other plane parts exhausted their operational lives. An investigation into a crash in Moscow last year concluded that the plane from the small Rus airline was too old to be in the air.
But Russians, so far, have not stopped flying. On the contrary, the industry has begun to make its way out of the deep recession of the past decade. Air travel last year increased by 15 percent from 2000, according to a recent government report. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (89%); AIRPORT OPERATION (89%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); INTERVIEWS (60%); SOFT DRINKS (56%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

COMPANY: AEROFLOT RUSSIAN AIRLINES OAO (92%); BOEING CO (58%); AIRBUS SAS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AEROFLOT 

TICKER: AFLT (RTS) (92%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%)

PERSON: TAVERNISE, SABRINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



579 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; 
The British Can't Rap, Haven't You Heard?

BYLINE:  By SIMON REYNOLDS; Simon Reynolds is the author of "Generation Ecstasy: Into the World of Techno and Rave Culture" (Little, Brown). He is writing a book about post-punk music of the 80's.

 BODY:
THE British have always had a flair for taking black American music, giving it a twist and then exporting it back, stylishly repackaged. Blues, R & B, soul, funk, disco, house -- each in turn has been the source music for a series of British invasions of the American pop mainstream. Yet, despite years of trying, this native genius for appropriation has spectacularly failed in one area: hip-hop. From late-80's contenders like Ruthless Rap Assassins to 90's groups like the Brotherhood, British rappers have not made much impression in hip-hop's homeland.
 Many American rap aficionados even believe that British people simply shouldn't rap. "When rappers try to project 'hardness' in a British accent, it can sound real forced and false to American ears," said Jeff Mao, a columnist for the American hip-hop magazine XXL. 
 Yet the British passion for hip-hop is stronger than ever. For the first time, homegrown rappers dominated the nominations for the 2002 Mercury Prize, a prestigious British music industry award, which in the past has gone to rock groups like Primal Scream and Gomez. Ms. Dynamite, a 21-year-old rapper who delivers socially aware lyrics in a dancehall-reggae-influenced rasp, won the prize. She prevailed over stiff competition from the critics' favorite, Mike Skinner, a 23-year-old who calls himself the Streets, and the veteran rapper Roots Manuva. 
Both the Streets and Ms. Dynamite typify a generation of young English rappers who found an alternative route to success via the hybrid dance music genre known as "U.K. garage." Over the last two years, garage groups led by rappers like So Solid Crew and Pay As U Go Cartel have gone from London's underground scene of pirate radio and raves to penetrating the Top 40. The chart success of this new hybrid, what some call "garage rap," has raised British hopes that homegrown rappers may finally achieve a breakthrough in America. But a powerful obstacle remains: as far as American hip-hop is concerned, the world comes to an end a few miles off the coast of Long Island.
If, as the saying goes, America and England are two nations divided by a common language, nowhere is that more true than in hip-hop. Rap fans often attribute the perennial failure of "Britrap" to language, claiming that British speech patterns don't lend themselves to what is known in hip-hop as "flow," the crucial blend of phrasing, swing and personality that is a rapper's signature. Mr. Mao rates French rappers superior to those on the other side of the English Channel. "There's a fluidity about the French language that makes it more compatible," he said.
But Mr. Skinner, whose debut album, "Original Pirate Material," will be released in America on Tuesday, may change that perception of British rappers. What is distinctive about his rapping is the way he has taken the idioms and cadences of colloquial English and made them work as hip-hop. Although Mr. Skinner, like many of his multicultural generation, occasionally uses dancehall reggae patois and b-boy slang, he mostly sticks to British terms like "geezer" and "twat" (a buffoon).
Mr. Skinner began rhyming in the late 90's as a member of a collective modeled after the American rap group the Wu-Tang Clan. Eventually he went out on his own, rapping over beats he produced himself. Around this time, he made an important discovery. "All the people I'd been working with had a bit of an American accent," he said. "But I realized that to be like your idol, you shouldn't sound like them, you should be like them -- original."
Following hip-hop's "keep it real" spirit, Mr. Skinner began rapping in his conversational voice. He is convinced that this approach has gotten him farther in America than pretending to be a gangsta ever would have. His album has been picked up in the United States by the new label Vice, which is financed and distributed by Atlantic Records, and is already getting enthusiastic reviews here. The Village Voice called it "England's first great hip-hop record."
Mr. Skinner's chatty, understated delivery is so unusual in hip-hop that he is often compared to English post-punk singers and poets like Ian Dury, John Cooper-Clarke and Terry Hall rather than to the American rappers who actually influenced him, such as Nas and Raekwon.
Ms. Dynamite and So Solid Crew both correspond more closely to American rap models. Often described as the British Lauryn Hill, Ms. Dynamite comes across like a wise elder sister to the bad-boys of So Solid Crew, with their flashy "playa" image and paranoid lyrics about the "haters" who resent their lavish lifestyle.
So Solid Crew is also a Wu-Tang Clan-like collective of about 30 rappers and producers. Following the example of its American counterpart, the group followed its No. 1 hit "21 Single Seconds" and album "They Don't Know" by spinning off solo careers for several members of the group. Canny entrepreneurs, its members also own and operate a pirate radio station. Yet despite its success in Britain, So Solid has yet to be picked up by an American label.
The reason for such lack of interest is simple economics: the risks of signing British rap acts outweigh any potential gains. "You have an overload of hip-hop here," said Black Shawn, the director of artists and repertory at Rawkus Records in New York. "You can get mix tapes with hot new rappers on any street corner."
British rap suffers from a Catch-22: if it imitates its American counterpart, it's treated as second-rate or simply superfluous (as with So Solid Crew). But when it tries to go in its own direction, the results aren't accepted by American fans as "real" hip-hop. Rap purists once regarded hip-hop as a strictly New York phenomenon, but more recently regional subgenres like Southern "bounce" have become commercially successful. So why can't British rap be seen as another regional style, its different flow enjoyed precisely because of its unusual flavor?
After all, British hip-hop has deep roots. Almost as soon as hip-hop came into being in America, it was embraced in Britain -- not just the music, but the whole subculture of graffiti and breakdancing. When another American import, Chicago house music, hit Britain in the late 80's, however, the fledging rap scene was eclipsed. British rappers adapted to rave culture by taking on a new, subservient role -- praising the D.J.'s skills and stirring up the crowd. During the 90's, these rappers developed a distinctly British style of fast chat, emphasizing tongue-twisting agility and gimmicky catch phrases rather than the narrative skills that are valued in American rap. Recently, though, with U.K. garage, rappers have emerged as stars in their own right.
Few are storytellers on a par with American rappers, though. Instead, pirate radio rappers like the Horra Squad use raw garage instrumentals as the springboard for boasts and threats. Most U.K. garage rappers have a distinctive English flow that is sinuous and fastidiously enunciated, often featuring a syncopated stutter effect. To American ears attuned to the relaxed, regal swagger of Jay-Z, though, this English style can sound overly precise, even prissy.
Where most U.K. garage rappers could be described as "talking fast, saying nothing," both Ms. Dynamite and Mr. Skinner have been hailed for bringing real content to this burgeoning British mutation of hip-hop. Ms. Dynamite's "Little Deeper" is somewhat heavy on consciousness-raising lyrics, but Mr. Skinner manages to be socially acute without preaching. "Original Pirate Material" is full of sharply observed, bleakly funny tales of everyday life, with scenarios ranging from a cash-flow crisis to a brandy-fueled binge.
But if the album succeeds as more than a critical favorite here, it will be because the very English mundaneness that Mr. Skinner captures might seem exotic to Americans, numbed by hardcore rap's routine imagery of violence, misogyny and materialism. "It could almost work here like hip-hop works for Brits -- as a fantasy," he said. "For Americans it could be like: 'Who's he? He says geezer all the time! He's got this weird lifestyle.' And that's what could make British rap more powerful ultimately, because American rap today is a TV show -- really conservative."

Original Pirate Material
The Streets.
Vice Records. To be released on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mike Skinner, the British rapper who calls himself the Streets, in Brooklyn last month. He takes the cadences of colloquial English and makes them work as hip-hop. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. 28); Ms. Dynamite at a recent black music awards ceremony in London. (Reuters)(pg. 31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAP MUSIC (91%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); MUSIC (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); MUSIC GENRES (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); WRITERS (68%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (67%); CARTELS (65%) MUSIC; RAP MUSIC 

PERSON: REYNOLDS, SIMON; STREETS (RAPPER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ENGLAND (88%) GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



580 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes/141st Street and Convent Avenue; 
1892 Church for a Congregation That Moved Uptown

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER GRAY 

 BODY:
THE scaffolding around the 1892 St. Luke's Church, at 141st Street and Convent Avenue, is just the first part of an extensive series of repairs the impressive Romanesque structure needs, both inside and out. The pastor, the Rev. Johan Johnson, has no funds right now for the rest of the work, but he does have an unusual idea of how to accomplish it.
 In 1820, homeowners in the West Village, including Don Alonzo Cushman, a developer who built much of Chelsea, and Clement Clarke Moore, another prominent landowner, known as the author of "A Visit From St. Nicholas" -- though his authorship has been questioned -- established St. Luke's Church to serve the new neighborhood. In 1822 they built the simple brick house of worship that still survives at 485 Hudson Street, near Barrow Street -- it is now known as the Church of St. Luke-in-the-Fields. 
 By the 1880's the Village was no longer an area of elite private houses. Tenements full of immigrants were encroaching on all sides. But St. Luke's remained an elite Episcopal parish. 
The vestry received a shock in 1887 when Trinity Church, at Wall Street and Broadway, notified St. Luke's that it would soon be building a new complex to serve the immigrant population, on land it owned on the east side of Hudson Street between St. Luke's Place and Clarkson Street, just a few blocks south. 
The Trinity complex was never built, but at the time St. Luke's felt that the plan would effectively extinguish its own existence, in part because Trinity subsidized St. Luke's, and that subsidy would soon end. After a protest, Trinity offered to pay St. Luke's $150,000 for its property, according to Penelope Tuttle's 1927 book, "History of St. Luke's Church."
St. Luke's accepted, and the church decided to move, she wrote, "far enough north to be sure of peace for at least a good long term of years." This turned out to be the northeast corner of 141st Street and Convent Avenue, at the edge of a high plateau with an emerging stock of sizable row houses.
In 1889, St. Luke's held its first uptown service, not in its present church but in the 1802 house of Alexander Hamilton on the next lot up, just north of 141st Street -- it had moved the Hamilton house from 143rd Street and Convent Avenue to make way for more row houses. 
The vestry was struggling for cash and seriously considered building only a basement on the steeply sloping 141st Street site. But in 1891 the architect Robert H. Robertson designed an ambitious new church, which opened the next year. Robertson had become prominent in the 1880's for his deft, vigorous modeling of the Romanesque style, often in rock-faced brownstone, for church and other designs, including the Young Women's Christian Association building at 7 East 15th Street. Historians talk of him as New York's H. H. Richardson, the architect of Trinity Church in Boston. 
Apparently because of continuing financial difficulties, St. Luke's had to cut back on its plans, leaving until a later time much of the stone carving and a tall, square corner tower. (Some carving was eventually done, but the corner tower was never built.) Writing in The Architectural Record in 1896, the critic Montgomery Schuyler praised the church and noted that the uncarved ornament contributed to the impressive severity of the design. But he did remark that the finished building "suffers from the absence of the tower designed for it." 
The completed church, mostly in deep red brownstone, presents a broad porch facing Convent Avenue. A side elevation of multiple arcades on 141st Street, which drops steeply to the east, reveals the broad rear facade. The architectural historian Andrew Dolkart calls this perspective "one of the most powerful architectural statements in New York." 
It appears the church has never been cleaned, and its patina is the architectural equivalent of the rich golden burnish of a Victorian cabinet of oak or maple. 
By the 1920's, African-Americans were moving into Harlem, and in 1922 the church established the St. Luke's Episcopal Mission for Negroes in an old row house at 28 Edgecombe Avenue, near 136th Street, creating a chapel seating 300. Michael Adams, an architectural historian who specializes in Harlem buildings, said that the mission was probably an effort to keep African-Americans segregated from the regular parish. 
In 1942 The New York Times reported that St. Luke's was merging with "St. Martin's, a Negro church" at 122nd Street and Lenox Avenue that was headed by the Rev. Dr. John H. Johnson. In 1961 his son, the Rev. David Johnson, succeeded his father as rector of the combined parish. 
In 1998, the Rev. Johan Johnson succeeded his brother as rector, and he has begun a $100,000 repair program, a project of the Upper Manhattan Historic Preservation Fund, which is financed by the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone -- a federal, state and city economic development program -- and administered by the New York Landmarks Conservancy, a nonprofit preservation group. 
The architectural firm of Cutsogeorge & Tooman has designed a new asphalt shingle roof -- the original curved roof tile disappeared long ago. The work also includes gutter repair and the stabilization of some stonework. 
Daniel Allen, an associate with the firm, said that a full-scale exterior restoration of the church would easily cost more than $1.5 million. 
What such a restoration would include forms an interesting preservation question. Johan Johnson said that St. Luke's needs new wiring, extensive stained-glass window repair -- many panes are loose in their frames -- and an organ overhaul. There is also the uncarved ornament on the exterior of the church -- the thousands of little chase marks on the raw column capitals look like a plowed field from three miles up, not what Robertson intended but still severe and striking. 
On the inside, the unfinished character of the work from 1892 is much more evident. The spare-looking giant hall is lined with columns; one capital is fully carved, but the others are raw.
Mr. Johnson said that with a congregation of 250, the parish can barely keep up with regular maintenance. But he does have an unusual plan. He has been working for the last eight months with a group, the Friends of Harlem Episcopal School, an outgrowth of the church's Saturday tutoring program, and hopes to establish a private school with that name in the St. Luke's building, with a kindergarten as the first class, as soon as next fall. 
At first, lower grades would take space in the church's expansive basement. But he expects that within several years, the enrollment and rising classes would need additional space, and the firm Perkins Eastman Architects is doing studies for the expansion of the school upstairs -- into the sanctuary, which seats 1,200.
"However good I am, I don't pack that many people in," said Mr. Johnson, who estimates that on a typical Sunday between 80 and 100 people attend.
Reducing the seating in the nave to 300 or 400 would yield space for several classrooms and still preserve part of the sanctuary for Sunday services -- as well as a chapel for the school. 
"It would take millions of dollars," Mr. Johnson said, but the result would be a much more extensive preservation program for the church. More developed plans for the project are being presented to the church's governing board and other interested groups this month and next.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The 1802 home of Alexander Hamilton, far left, next to St. Luke's Church, in the 1890's. Above, the church today; a $100,000 repair program has begun. (New-York Historical Society); (Ruby Washington/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); WRITERS (70%) EPISCOPAL CHURCH; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

ORGANIZATION: ST LUKE'S CHURCH (NYC) 

PERSON: GRAY, CHRISTOPHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



581 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: FILM; 
Fresh Eye on a Jaded Slice of New York

BYLINE:  By JAMIE MALANOWSKI; Jamie Malanowski's most recent article for Arts & Leisure was about the "Austin Powers" movies.

 BODY:
IT'S a confident director who is willing to take the major theme of his film and whip it past his audience like a Pedro Martinez fastball before the moviegoers have managed to get their Peanut Chews unwrapped. Yet in "Roger Dodger," 33-year-old Dylan Kidd, directing his first feature from his first screenplay, does exactly that.
 Setting the film's opening scene at a table in one of those $16-a-cocktail Manhattan restaurants, Mr. Kidd captures five fashionable New Yorkers in mid-banter about the commonplace subject of men, women and the future of the species. But one of them, Roger, played by Campbell Scott, is clearly smarter, sharper and more motivated. While the others want an amusing lunch, Roger aims to compete. And while the others take up the subject to be arch and flirty, Roger wants to present a cleverly cloaked truth: that the male of the species is evolving into irrelevancy. 
 "Ten to 15 generations from now, men will be reduced to servitude," he declaims. "Technology and evolution will have combined to exclude sperm from procreation and our final destiny will be to perform heavy lifting and wait for that day when . . . our gender's last remaining utility is lost forever." 
His friends laugh, and the film moves on. Only later does the audience realize that what it has registered as a moment of sophisticated wit is really a cri de coeur. Roger, drifting in a relationship that's going nowhere, working as an advertising copywriter in a job that bores him, is one hurting, angry cowpoke.
"What I find really interesting about being in New York," said Mr. Kidd over drinks and dinner recently at a $16-a-cocktail Manhattan restaurant, "is that there are a lot of people who are incredibly successful, intelligent and pretty amazing at figuring out other people's weaknesses. Yet these same intelligent people will have absolutely no awareness of what's driving them.
"Before I wrote even a word of this film I was thinking, 'Wouldn't it be fun to make a movie about a bunch of people who are talking here' " -- his right hand mocks a salute at eye level -- " 'and have no idea that this is the real story down here.' " (For the record, just above where his fish lies on its platter.)
"Roger Dodger," which opens Friday, is a real New York film, in the "All About Eve" tradition. Roger's wit and verbal nimbleness would allow him to feel right at home with those vipers. Although, if anything, he's nastier. While he's charismatic in the striking opening scene, we subsequently see him apply his gifts rather less charmingly.
"Roger is somebody who likes to verbally spar," Mr. Kidd says. "He's a gunfighter with words, and he likes to win. I was nervous writing a screenplay built on a character this angry, because maybe people wouldn't want to spend time with him. But when I see a character who's smart, I want to keep watching, even though he's a jerk. And Campbell brings some weird, intangible thing that makes you want to give him the benefit of the doubt. He invests Roger with so much charisma, that even when he's a jerk, the audience is willing to stick around, thinking there's a chance for redemption."
THAT chance comes in the form of Roger's teenage nephew, Nick, who shows up unbidden and unannounced from some Midwestern suburb Roger had long forsaken. Roger's nastiness has been whetted after he's dumped by Joyce, his lover and boss, played by Isabella Rossellini, who has never been more self-evidently desirable. Nick, played with a perfectly pitched expression of incredulity by a newcomer, Jesse Eisenberg (elder brother of the Pepsi girl Hallie Kate Eisenberg), has skipped town after some unexplained flare-up at home. But it's not at all clear why he's come to the less-than-avuncular Uncle Roger. Roger's in the dark, too, but out of some perverse sense of familial duty he decides to help the lad -- by engineering his sexual initiation. And so he takes him into the night on a tour of Roger World, where "Sex and the City"-type women wait to be seduced and abandoned.
"Roger Dodger" may be Mr. Kidd's first feature, but he's been directing for years. The only child of a college professor and an arts administrator, Mr. Kidd grew up, as he puts it, "all over the East Coast." After a false start as a philosophy major at George Washington, he responded to an ad in American Film magazine and enrolled in New York University's film program. Graduating in 1991 into the teeth of a recession, he shuffled through a series of odd jobs in and out of the film business. After several years he determined that he wanted to direct. In 1996 he made a short film, "Ian's Ghost," that won several awards, and then spent his time doing what he terms "industry grunt work" -- industrial movies, fashion videos, corporate work.
"I was happy to do it," he says. "I'd do an industrial tomorrow. You can learn from anything. Even with a corporate job, you're still learning to tell a story. And the way the early 90's were, I don't turn my nose up at anything."
Along the way he wrote screenplays, though "Roger Dodger" was the first he had enough confidence in to show anyone. Getting it to the screen required an out-of-the-blue turn of events worthy of a fairy tale, or perhaps the plot of an indie movie.
"The catch in getting a film made is to get around a firewall of agents to get talent attached," Mr. Kidd says. He and one of his his co-producers, Anne Chaisson, went through the standard process of approaching actors through their agents, but got nowhere. Finally, Mr. Kidd made a decision. "I said: 'You know what? You know how I'm going to feel that I'm for real? Every day I'm going to carry a copy of the script with me, because I'm in New York, and I'm bound to run into somebody.' " 
After a few weeks, he did. Mr. Kidd saw Mr. Scott in a restaurant on Carmine Street in Greenwich Village, and though they were not acquainted on any level, made an approach. "I expected to get the response 99 percent of actors will give you, which is send it to my agent," Mr. Kidd says. "But he took it." A few weeks later, the phone rang. "I was shaving in my boxers," recalls Mr. Kidd. "And the voice said, 'Hey, it's Campbell!' And I didn't know who it was. So I did that thing where you think you'll figure out who it is and said, 'Heeeeeey!' And about 30 seconds later I realized it was him!" 
Mr. Scott was immediately inclined to play Roger -- "It's a very showy part, and not the kind of character I usually get to do," he says -- so much so that he had few reservations about working with a first-time director. "Dylan is very smart, and firm in a very positive way," says Mr. Scott by telephone. "He's able to take in a lot of emotional information quickly, and reproduce it. I was impressed with how assured he was. Working in the city last fall wasn't the easiest thing, and he had a very tight schedule. Yet he was able to listen to the actors and deal with what we wanted, and at the same time get what he wanted from us."
The results are surprisingly accomplished. There are a lot of good films made by capable first-time directors, but there are few where the director seems to have so many ideas. The film was shot with a hand-held camera by Joaquin Baca-Asay, the director of photography, with whom Mr. Kidd has a long association on his industrial films and other projects. The proximity the hand-held camera affords gives the whole film an immediate feel, and its movement underscores the action. "Dylan wanted to push the envelope in what he could depict," said Ms. Chaisson. "He wanted Joaquin to be very aggressive with the camera."
In the opening scene, for example, as the bantering starts going against Roger, the camera starts losing interest in him; when he rallies, he gets it back. The middle portion of the movie depicts an encounter between Roger and Nick and two dancers played by Jennifer Beals and Elizabeth Berkley, first in a bar and then in a park. Mr. Kidd gives the camera to the actors; it moves in tight with glistening close-ups that conjure those tense, swoony, breathless moments when one isn't sure if a romantic encounter is on its way or not. The scene climaxes with Mr. Eisenberg and Ms. Beals sharing a kiss that will surely rank as one of the most charged movie moments of the year.
"Movies can't work with the frontal lobe," says Mr. Kidd. "We can't tell the audience what to feel. We can only figure out what we want them to take away from a scene, and then use the camera to suggest where the undercurrent is going."
Mr. Kidd's personal current seems to be moving quickly. Just a little more than one very fast year since he gave the script to Mr. Scott, the movie, which got strong reactions on the festival circuit, is about to open theatrically. It might be enough to turn a newcomer's head, but Mr. Kidd, who lives in Sunnyside, Queens, with two cats, seems to be working very hard to keep his success at arm's length.
"When a small movie breaks in a certain way, well-meaning people come out of the woodwork and try to get you into the Hollywood system," he says. "Not me. I plan to stay in New York and work on smaller-budget movies. At one point Joaquin said that if we had $20 million to make this movie, we'd mess it up. And he was right; we'd junk it up with something. I want to work at a level where everyone's talent can directly impact the film. That way it's fun -- the most fun activity in the world. Two years ago I was struggling and wondering if it was worth it. Well, it is so worth it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Campbell Scott, left, as a charming rake, takes his young nephew (Jesse Eisenberg) under his wing and on the town in "Roger Dodger." (Peter Figetakis/Artisan Entertainment)(pg. 1); The writer and director Dylan Kidd at work on his first feature film, "Roger Dodger," a venomous comedy set in Manhattan. (Peter Figetakis/Artisan Entertainment)(pg. 26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); WRITERS (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%) MOTION PICTURES 

PERSON: KIDD, DYLAN; MALINOWSKI, JAMIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: ROGER DODGER (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



582 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; 
Don't Call It a String Quartet. It's a Band.

BYLINE:  By STEVE SMITH; Steve Smith is the classical music editor of Time Out New York.

 BODY:
EVERY month, dozens of ambitious, hungry young bands play in the cramped confines of the KnitActive Sound Stage, downstairs at the Knitting Factory in TriBeCa. So an appearance there tonight by Ethel, a four-piece band hoping that the club's downtown cachet will attract a new audience, may seem nothing unusual. Yet Ethel is basically a classical string quartet, and its concert of works by John King, Phil Kline and Julia Wolfe is part of Sonic Boom, a festival presented by the New York Consortium for New Music, which promotes contemporary classical music.
 "What image does a string quartet put in your head?" asked Mary Rowell, an intense violinist who has played a prominent role in new-music and alternative rock scenes for more than 20 years. "A dour group of people playing perfectly together in perfect harmony. That's not the path that I wanted to go down." 
 In 1998, Ms. Rowell was hired for a recording session along with Todd Reynolds, another violinist, Ralph Farris, a violist, and Dorothy Lawson, a cellist. The collaboration of these extraordinarily skilled, passionate musicians sparked a surge of creative energy and potential. "It felt like a group of friends forming a band," Ms. Rowell said. 
Tapping into a rapidly changing new-music scene, Ethel has graduated with remarkable speed from isolated performances at the Cutting Room, Galapagos and Joe's Pub, which normally feature offbeat strands of popular music, to an extensive string of concerts and series this season. Those appearances, ranging from the club date tonight to a Lincoln Center debut in May, are intended to show different facets of the group's evolving approach to presenting concert music in the 21st century.
Before coming together, the Ethel players were among the busiest freelance musicians in New York. They had performed individually and together in establishment mainstays like the American Symphony Orchestra, Orpheus and the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center as well as in new-music ensembles, including the Bang on a Can All-Stars.
Each player also had extensive experience outside classical music. Ms. Rowell was a member of the Silos, a noted rock band, and she performed and recorded with the pop singers Joe Jackson and Sheryl Crow. Mr. Reynolds, who composes and conducts, improvised with wild abandon as a member of the Mahavishnu Project, an electric jazz-fusion band, and appeared onstage as a dancing fiddler in the Broadway revival of "Annie, Get Your Gun." Ms. Lawson played regularly with the Brazilian jazz pianist Marcelo Zarvos and performed in the pit band for an Off Broadway musical, Jason Robert Brown's "Last Five Years." Mr. Farris served as music director for the Who vocalist Roger Daltrey and as an arranger and orchestrator for pop recordings.
Such diversity is expected of freelance musicians, especially in New York, where conventional work prospects can be scarce. In a difficult economic climate, orchestras and presenters hire fewer soloists, increasingly relying on a handful of guaranteed best sellers.
"For my generation graduating from university, the careers we had been prepared for already didn't exist," Ms. Lawson said. "We had to go out and feel our way along and come up with a lot of things that we'd love to do instead."
Those activities were also responses to challenges within the classical world itself. In school, both Ms. Rowell and Mr. Reynolds encountered resistance from instructors when they tried to bring new music by Philip Glass and Steve Reich into an academic setting. For all four musicians, now in their 30's and 40's, it was natural as well to work in the popular musical forms of their upbringing.
They were already aware of one another when they joined forces for the first time in the recording studio. The excitement they felt while playing together, combined with the diverse musical tastes and experiences they shared, led them to conclude that they could create a performing situation that would address all their artistic interests; in time, perhaps, it might even generate steady work without compromise.
Styling themselves a band rather than a string quartet allowed them to sidestep the pressures of classical music tradition and expectation. "A band doesn't necessarily have an allegiance to anything," Mr. Reynolds said. "A group of four guys, of four girls, of mixed folks gets together and says, 'We want to present an idea.' There's no tradition about this behavior, necessarily. You're just putting an idea out there."
The quartet called itself Hazardous Materials for its earliest concerts, a name soon dropped for its negative connotations. As the players considered other names, Ms. Rowell remembered a scene from the movie "Shakespeare in Love": Shakespeare racked with writer's block as he tried to complete a play called "Romeo and Ethel, the Pirate's Daughter." Ms. Rowell suggested Ethel as a name. Improbably, it stuck.
The group adopted many trappings of popular culture, producing stylish press kits, establishing a Web site with vivid graphics and downloadable MP3 files (www.ethelcentral.com) and participating in a live Webcast. It incorporated lighting, video, choreography and other rock elements in its presentations.
STILL, if Ethel were truly to be a band instead of a string quartet, the music would have to reflect the distinction. The group took up works by young composers who shared its diverse interests, including Mr. King and Ms. Wolfe, who both compose in rock-influenced styles.
"The string quartet goes together like singer, guitar, bass and drums," Mr. King said. "It's a thing in itself that is a great voice for putting out musical ideas." Ms. Wolfe added, "It's the closest classical group I can think of to a rock band."
The Kronos Quartet long ago abolished the hegemony of establishment composers by commissioning all manner of musical artists to write string quartets. Ethel has taken the process a step farther. During some concerts, the players improvise new material to segue between compositions, creating a flow the way D.J.'s do when spinning records, something that might give pause to even the most open-minded composer.
"I wasn't sure how I was going to feel about that," said Ms. Wolfe, a Bang on a Can composer whose spiky, dissonant works have quickly become an Ethel specialty. "But they did it really tastefully, and there was still an acknowledgment of the composers who were making the pieces."
All those elements, and undoubtedly others, will be in evidence in three concerts that Ethel will present at the Kitchen in Chelsea from Oct. 31 to Nov. 2. Mr. King, the Kitchen's music director, booked the series as a coming-out for the group, which will present programs illustrating several aspects of its wide-ranging vision. Among the works to be presented on the first night -- appropriately for Halloween -- is a piece based on the writings of Poe, collaboratively composed by the four members.
Beginning in February, Ethel will present a series at the Miller Theater of Columbia University, devoted chiefly to the quartets of Ms. Wolfe and John Zorn. Each program will also include at least one premiere. Then in May, Ethel takes its countercultural approach to the altar of classical music culture, performing works by Mr. King, Mr. Reynolds and Evan Ziporyn in the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center's new-music series Double Exposure.
Ethel's timing has been serendipitous, a fact not lost on its members. But more important to them is the pleasure they take in one another's company, which is apparent both on stage and off. Egalitarian ambitions aside, their partnership is ultimately based on mutual understanding and acceptance.
"We're four extroverts that in a lot of instances have felt like sore thumbs," Mr. Farris says, "and we found three other thumbs to go along."

Sonic Boom Festival
Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street.
Today at 4 p.m.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Members of Ethel, from left, Dorothy Lawson, Todd Reynolds, Ralph Farris and Mary Rowell: sidestepping the classical music tradition. (Steve J. Sherman)(pg. 30); Ethel played Erik Friedlander's "In Memoriam 9/11" in Berlin on Sept. 11, 2002: players of extraordinary passion and skill. (Associated Press)(pg. 32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (93%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); MUSIC (91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (91%); POP & ROCK (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (88%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (75%); DANCE (70%) MUSIC 

ORGANIZATION: ETHEL (MUSIC GROUP) 

PERSON: LAWSON, DOROTHY; REYNOLDS, TODD; FARRIS, RALPH; ROWELL, MARY; SMITH, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (72%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



583 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: Can One Man Make a Difference? 

BYLINE:  By STACEY STOWE 

 BODY:
HE is an ambassador for Hartford, the one who cuts the ribbons and gives the interviews. He is the man who presides over city government, opening meetings in the high-ceilinged chamber at City Hall from the power seat, flanked on either side by members of the City Council. His are perhaps the most visible shoulders to carry the hopes of this beleaguered city, but under law, the mayor of Hartford is little more than a figurehead, a man who can't even change the time of trash pick up without approval from nine council members.
 Most people in Hartford said that will change when the city decides on Election Day, Nov. 5, whether to reform the charter to replace its council-manager form of government with one run by a strong mayor. Voters will also decide whether to increase the terms of mayor and City Council members from two to four years. 
 For Eddie Perez, a Democrat who is Hartford's first Puerto Rican mayor, the change cannot come soon enough. After a long career in neighborhood organizing and as right-hand man for Evan S. Dobelle, the charismatic former president of Trinity College, Mr. Perez agreed to run for office only after he was sure the charter revision would pass. A strong mayor, one who serves as the chief executive of city government, is necessary in Hartford, he said, to restore faith in both its residents and businesses needed to invest in it. 
"The current separation of power creates a lack of confidence in political leadership," he said in a recent interview. "Private business and government know the powers are limited and act accordingly. A strong mayor would have the power to move an economic and social agenda in the city."
Such an agenda is a desperate necessity in Hartford, where 30 percent of the population lives in poverty, the school system is among the worst performing in the nation and there is an 80 percent chance a baby born here will have a single mother.
Hartford, along with Lowell and Worcester, Mass., is one of only three cities in New England with populations over 100,000 without a strong mayor form of government, said Allan B. Taylor, a Hartford lawyer who proposed charter reform for the city as early as 1986. Hartford changed to a council-manager form of government in 1947. At that time, although the city had a mayor, the true power had rested with various commissions with no centralized authority. In the past 20 years, the city has had eight city managers, some of whom are credited with negotiating union and pension contracts that experts said would bankrupt a private business.
Mr. Taylor calls the current status of the city an "oddball political moment," with the public dismay with the state of city government and the political balance on the council. He was referring to five council members, including two Democrats, two Republicans and one from the Green Party, who generally vote together.
The general consensus among residents and people in city government is that charter revision will easily pass in November. An attempt to push it through last December failed, some said, because the referendum question was bundled with several others and less than 15 percent -- the minimum number of voters needed -- failed to turn out at the polls.
Its proponents said a strong mayor is necessary on pragmatic and ideological grounds. A strong mayor would be responsible for all city departments, managing the day-to-day operations of the city. He would submit the city budget to the council and set executive policy. The change would simplify city government for residents and businesses, Mr. Perez said. For instance, under the current city manager government, a potential investor in the city must run a bureaucratic gauntlet, seeking approvals and permits from six or seven city offices. After charter reform, Mr. Perez said, the investor would make one stop in the mayor's office, who would streamline the process.
A strong mayor government is more conducive to an urban environment where patronage politics have a more important role and ethnic politics are more significant than in the suburbs, Mr. Taylor said.
Since the late 1940's, the mayor's hands have been tied, said James Kinsella, 78, who was mayor of Hartford for two terms beginning in 1957. It was only through sheer force of the mayor's personality that goals were achieved, a caveat that benefited some more than others, he said.
"You couldn't get anything done," he said. "It was suggested nicely that you don't contact department heads yourself, but work through the manager."
Yet there is a disagreement as to whether the charter reform will bring any real change. Those in favor, like Mr. Perez and Mr. Taylor, said it will hold one person accountable for the city's success or failure and will appropriately merge the political and administrative. Willie Womack, a van driver who has lived in Hartford for more than 50 years, said she believed it on symbolic grounds.
"The city deserves a strong mayor and city government needs someone to answer to," she said.
But others said it is a frail gesture toward a troubled city and question just how strong the mayor will be under charter revision. For instance, the mayor's powers will be stepped up from an ability to nominate commissioners to appointing them, yet both actions require council approval for confirmation.
"It isn't the silver bullet," said Nick Carbone, who retired last year from the Connecticut Institute of Municipal Studies and has long been involved in city politics. "A move to the strong mayor form of government won't be a substitute for corporate leadership."
He said the business community is less engaged than they were in the 1970's due to corporate restructuring that resulted in insurance and banking headquarters and manufacturing companies leaving the city. In addition, he cited the city's abysmally low property values combined with the poorest people needing the most services as a recipe for failure. "I don't feel switching to a strong mayor is a step towards solving the problems," he said.
City Councilman Louis Watkins Jr. said he will support charter reform because the residents have asked for it, but he doesn't believe it will make a difference.
"Whether mayor or council-manager, I don't believe it should affect the city," he said. "The mayor usually gets 85 to 90 percent of what he wants anyway, so some of this strong mayor stuff is a smoke screen."
It should be noted that since taking office last November, Mr. Perez was able to build a five-member coalition. Mr. Watkins is not part of it.
"I think it will pass," said Marie L. Kirkley-Bey, a former member of the City Council and 35-year resident of the city. "It's needed because right now we're missing the accountability piece, but I also think we need to remember the importance of checks and balances."
So much power in the hands of one person makes more than a few people nervous. Several people interviewed pointed to Waterbury and Bridgeport where powerful mayors are both under indictment for various abuses of power and Providence, R.I., where former Mayor Vincent A. Cianci was convicted this year for a range of fraudulent activity.
"I'm a little nervous giving someone that much power," said Clark King, 56, the union president for Hartford city workers.
In response, Mr. Taylor, who has served on the City Council, Board of Education and charter revision commission, said the revised charter will reflect a system of checks and balances by establishing an independent internal auditor's commission selected and appointed by the City Council, treasurer and the city's 10 largest taxpayers, Mr. Taylor said. The commission will appoint an internal auditor, approve work programs and propose the budget for the internal auditing unit.
"We've created an independent group to keep a watch on what the administration is doing," he said.
Robert L. Painter, a first-term Republican councilman and member of the majority council coalition, said in addition to changing the role of the mayor, the revisions will reduce the scope of the charter from a rigid document that proscribes when and how often various boards and commissions meet to create a more flexible plan for city government, giving department heads more responsibility.
Hyacinth Yennie, who is active for her Barry Square neighborhood and a Hartford business owner, said she supports the charter change to step up accountability in the city, but was nevertheless impressed with the efficiency and accomplishments of Albert Ilg, interim city manager from January to September this year. Mr. Ilg was replaced by Lee Erdman, who will become the chief administrative officer if voters accept the strong mayor proposal.
Mr. Perez, a self-described "economist by training and organizer by vocation," said he thinks of city residents as customers who deserve an efficiently run government.
"The biggest reason folks want reform is accountability," he said. On election day, Mr. Perez is counting on these customers to be demanding consumers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eddie Perez, second from right, the mayor of Hartford, at a recent meeting of the City Council. If voters approve in November, the city charter will be changed to give him and future mayors more power. (C. M. Glover for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (95%); CITIES (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (75%); POLITICS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); REFERENDUMS (69%); POVERTY RATES (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%) ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; MAYORS; CITY COUNCILS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: PEREZ, EDDIE (MAYOR); STOWE, STACEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (67%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) HARTFORD (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



584 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: MONEY & MEDICINE; 
When Insurance Hits the Ceiling

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE ANDREWS; Michelle Andrews is a freelance writer in Manhattan specializing in health care. Her column on its economics appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: moneymeds@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
WHEN people buy health insurance, few worry that it might run out. As long as they pay their premiums, they expect to be covered, no matter how many medical bills they rack up. After all, what's the point of having insurance if, just when you need it most, your policy shuts down like a bank at closing time?
 Many policies, however, do place a cap on the amount they will pay out over the course of a person's lifetime. More than two-thirds of people in preferred-provider organizations have such lifetime benefit maximums, as do nearly half of people covered by conventional indemnity plans, according to a recent survey of employer health benefits by the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. Lifetime caps are less common among plans offered by health maintenance organizations. 
 When Robin and Michael Rose of Richmond, Va., were choosing a plan several years ago, lifetime maximums never crossed their minds. They were young and healthy, and their main concern was keeping monthly costs down. The premium for family coverage was $25 a month through the University of South Carolina at Spartanburg, which Mrs. Rose was attending, and $125 a month through the sporting goods store where Mr. Rose worked. Choosing the "best" plan seemed obvious: they went with the cheaper policy. (The couple could not recall names of the insurance companies or other specifics about the plans.)
Everything was fine until they decided to have a baby. Just over six months into her pregnancy, Mrs. Rose went into premature labor and doctors were unable to prevent her from delivering. Their son, Austin, was born weighing just 2 pounds.
Mrs. Rose spent every minute she could at the neonatal intensive care unit. Then, about 10 days after Austin's birth, a hospital social worker pulled her into a private conference room and dropped a bombshell: the Roses were about to hit the $300,000 maximum on their health insurance policy. "I had no idea there was a maximum," Mrs. Rose, now 29, said. "And at the time it was the last thing I wanted to deal with."
Austin was in the hospital for 81 days. The hospital charges came to $375,000. Charges for the neonatologist, gastroenterologist and pediatric ophthalmologist added $300,000. Once Austin came home, he had to take 14 medications, plus physical therapy and regular doctor visits.
They said the policy they didn't sign up for, with the $125 premium, would have covered Austin's expenses up to $1 million. That policy limit is typical. But while $1 million may sound like a lot of money, it's getting smaller every day. Health care costs are surging, partly because of continuing technological advances that are good for making people well but rough on insurance pocketbooks. The price tag for health care is expected to climb 15 percent in 2003 alone. Sometimes, that $1 million can disappear faster than you can say "second mortgage."
As employers look for ways to cut health insurance costs, the lowering of lifetime maximums may be too tempting for them to resist. Many employees may not even realize that limits exist in the first place. "A million dollars is starting to look generous," said Patricia Goldsmith, vice president for institutional and business development for the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center in Tampa, Fla. "Some small group plans are reducing lifetime maximums to as little as $30,000 to $50,000."
For a serious illness or accident, $30,000 will barely get you a bed in the I.C.U. Bone marrow transplants, the most expensive single procedure in oncology today, are now used to treat some 40 different cancers, said Michael Rabin, a vice president for managed care at City of Hope Cancer Center in Duarte, Calif. The transplant costs $200,000 to $500,000 or more, depending on the donor and whether there are complications. And a car accident victim with several broken bones and brain or torso injuries could easily incur a couple of hundred thousand dollars in medical costs, said Tom Scalea, physician in chief of the Maryland Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore.
Of course, the percentage of people who will face such catastrophic medical bills is small. But for those who do, they can be devastating. The Roses were lucky: the social worker helped them sign up Austin for Medicaid under a South Carolina program for disabled children whose parents' assets exceed Medicaid limits; 19 states have such programs. Austin, who just turned 6, no longer needs special medical care.
MANY people aren't so fortunate. Qualifying for Medicaid or Social Security disability coverage can be difficult, and if they live in one of the 27 states that doesn't have a high-risk insurance pool to cover patients who don't qualify elsewhere, they may be out of luck. "So many consumers just don't fit into one of these neat packages," said Nancy Davenport-Ennis, president and chief executive of the Patient Advocate Foundation.
Helen Darling, president of the Washington Business Group on Health, which represents large employers on health care issues, said most big companies didn't bother with lifetime caps. Because the number of cases that would reach the maximum is small, "you don't save much if you put maximum policy limits in," she said. 
"And it buys you a lot of good will if you don't have them," she added. 
Very cogently reasoned. But as employers scramble to contain rising health care costs, reason doesn't always carry the day.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS (73%); PEDIATRICS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (69%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (69%); FOUNDATIONS (69%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (64%); GASTROENTEROLOGY (60%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (55%)

PERSON: ANDREWS, MICHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (56%); SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (55%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



585 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2682 words

HEADLINE: A Village In the City Hidden in Plain Sight 

BYLINE:  By ALEXANDRA BANDON 

 BODY:
TUCKED into a sliver of space between two buildings on one of Greenwich Village's many crooked streets, a narrow alleyway is closed to the public by a thin black gate. At the far end of the long claustrophobic passage, the signs of an urban paradise can be glimpsed: a couple of fence posts, the vague edge of a flowering bush and a tease of green leaves hanging from a tall tree.
 What cannot be seen, no matter how hard a curious neck is craned, is the charming pair of clapboard cottages that stand behind plants and fence, two of the dozens of hidden houses in the West Village. Built mostly in the 19th century as stables, servants' quarters, stores, workshops and even main residences, the houses have survived the tear-down mentality of New York and a host of tenement laws gradually prohibiting such construction, to remain some of the city's most charming -- and desirable -- properties. 
 Carriage houses or backhouses, as they are known, are one of the secrets of the West Village. These are not the quaint-but-visible blocks like Washington Mews, Patchin Place and Grove Court that are a staple of every walking tour of the historic area; these are houses entirely cloaked from view. They are sometimes hinted at by a tunnel carved into the side of a house and a street address supplemented by a small "a" or a " 1/2," but at other times they are completely hidden and accessible only to someone with knowledge of a door at the far side of the house or apartment building in front.
They survive because many parts of the Village, dating back to the late 18th and early 19th centuries, before the city started regulating how residents could build and live in relation to one another, remain intact. Because the architecture is so well preserved, close to 75 backhouses -- an estimate based on insurance-survey maps and anecdotal information -- still stand in the area from Houston Street to 14th Street between Broadway and the Hudson River. 
The rest of Manhattan is not nearly as dense with such structures. To find them, one must look where the housing stock is very old and tightly clustered, where the back of the lot would have been a viable real estate holding for a 19th-century property owner. There are still a few remaining in the East Village, Chinatown and Little Italy, in Chelsea and in Clinton, and very rarely in other parts of the borough.
Farther north in Manhattan, backhouses appear less often, because the lots were developed later. There are next to none behind the late 19th- and early 20th-century brownstones of the Upper West Side and Harlem.
One gated address, known as Clinton Court, on the quaint 46th Street block between Ninth and 10th Avenues, was a stable on the DeWitt Clinton estate, dating back to the early 1800's. The house, with archways and multipaned casement windows that are visible from the street, was built over a potter's field cemetery and comes complete with a legend about ghosts that frequent it. 
Hidden houses also exist in the older Brooklyn neighborhoods of Carroll Gardens and Williamsburg, where row houses or tenements stand on smaller lots. But in the earliest urban areas of Queens, the Bronx and Staten Island, and even in Village-like Brooklyn Heights, original rear houses are very rare. One carriage house on Monroe Place in Brooklyn was moved from another location and reassembled in the back yard sometime in the first half of the 20th century.
Barry Lewis, an architectural historian, theorizes that rear buildings became residences to accommodate the 19th-century immigrant population that moved into middle-class areas in Lower Manhattan in the 1830's and into the Village and Brooklyn after the Civil War. "Backhouses seem to belong to the era of houses in Manhattan, not the era of apartments," Mr. Lewis said. "The property owner probably shoved more immigrant families into the stable or workshed in the back. Other owners may have built a new backhouse just to get the lucrative immigrant rents.
"At some point," he added, owners "realized it would be even more lucrative to knock down both the front and back houses and replace the whole shebang with a tenement."
The Queens historian Vincent Seyfried said that despite this push to erect apartments, some Brooklyn backhouses still survive; landlords simply moved front houses to the back of the lot when they built a tenement facing the street. (Mr. Seyfried's ancestors owned one such house -- with a tobacco shop on the ground floor -- in Williamsburg in 1848, sliding it back to accommodate a tenement later in the century.) "These places didn't have cellars or plumbing, so it wasn't difficult to do -- it was an economical thing to do," he said.
But in the boroughs outside of Manhattan this phenomenon exists only in neighborhoods -- like Williamsburg -- developed early in the 1800's and only if the houses sidestepped a century and a half of changes to the cityscape. So few rear houses exist in Queens, for example, because the borough was largely built later, Mr. Seyfried said. "The places with backhouses have to be the earliest places people settled," he said. "Most of Queens doesn't get built in the 1820's, 30's and 40's.
"Any houses that did get built that early, as in Jamaica, those houses were torn down because they were inadequate," he continued. Some survived in Flushing -- another of the older towns -- into the early 20th century but were razed to make way for the commuter parking lots built around the end of the new subway lines after World War II. 
Regina Kellerman, an architectural historian who was executive director of the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation from 1981 to 1989, has investigated some of the West Village houses' histories for clients. "There were a lot where the yards were big or on 'gore lots' -- lots with unequal sides and, therefore, extra space in the back," she explained. Many of the Village's streets were laid out unevenly, following farm-property lines rather than a grid pattern, so such lots are more common there than elsewhere.
Raymond Sokolov, who recently retired as editor of The Wall Street Journal's Leisure and Arts page, and his wife, Johanna Hecht, an associate curator of European sculpture and decorative arts at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, live in one of the two clapboard houses behind the thin gate in Greenwich Village. Their 800-square-foot, four-room house, with low ceilings and exposed beams, was built in 1828 (an old structure even for the Village) within the borders of the early 19th-century Samuel Jones farm.
They are unsure of the building's origins -- as many backhouse owners are -- but their guess is that it and its identical neighbor were put up as housing for workers on the Jones farm or as a workshop for a journeyman. They acquired the property, which is part of a co-op with the front tenement, built later, after deciding that their inherited apartment on the Upper West Side -- half of a classic 12 -- was never going to be the home they wanted it to be. "I wanted something with character," Ms. Hecht said.
The building was in total disrepair when they arrived in 1993. ("The inside of the house looked a little bit like Robert De Niro's place in 'Taxi Driver,' " Mr. Sokolov said.) The couple gutted the cottage, rewiring it and adding soundproofing so it would be a haven from the noise and activity of the busy Village streets. They also put up the fence and planted the garden, creating a cottage that looks as if it belongs on a small town lane rather than surrounded by grime-covered apartment buildings.
The Village's backhouses have diverse histories. One, on Charles Street, was a blacksmith's shop. On 10th Street near Hudson Street, a sailors' boarding house on the street side -- with a tavern on the ground floor and hammocks for beds, catering to the seamen who sailed from the nearby wharves -- was operated by workers who lived in the back. A few of the structures even started out as large privies.
In the 1890's, a carriage house that is entered through the door to the left of what is now the Blue Note, on West Third Street, contained the Golden Rule Pleasure Club, a male brothel. According to "Commissioner Roosevelt," a book by H. Paul Jeffers, the Rev. Charles Parkhurst included the club in his sensational report to a grand jury in 1892 charging that a corrupt, Tammany-influenced police force was turning a blind eye to crime in the city.
Most of these houses were built by property owners who wanted to maximize the use of their land. Before the skyscrapers and tall apartment buildings of the 20th century arrived, building on the back of the lot was an efficient use of space.
In the 19th century, the loss of private outdoor space to a back building was not nearly as traumatic as it might be today. "The back yard would have been a functional courtyard where the residents hung clothes, did some of the housework or had the summer kitchen," Jane Jacobs, the author of "The Death and Life of Great American Cities," and a former Village resident, said in an interview. "It was a service area, and only occasionally a recreational area." Consequently, backhouses did not exist in poorer neighborhoods -- giving up the service space was a luxury affordable only to those who had extra room indoors. "These buildings were for affluent or well-off citizens," Ms. Jacobs said. 
YET it was a movement to protect the poor that eventually killed the backhouse. The Tenement House Laws of 1867 and 1879 were the first pieces of legislation meant to bring housing in the slums of the city closer to habitable. They were spurred by concerns about epidemics, particularly cholera, that thrived in densely populated areas.
Among other things, those laws specified how much space a building could take up on its lot and how many feet had to be left between front and back buildings, eventually requiring no more than 65 percent lot coverage and as much as 25 feet dividing four-story buildings. The rules did not leave much room for a second house on the standard 100-foot-deep lots. 
As a result, construction of most backhouses larger than two stories -- that is, residences rather than commercial structures or outbuildings that were converted later -- ended by the 1870's, though some property owners built oversized backhouses illegally as late as the 1930's. 
"If people had space back there and they happened to have empty yards next to them, like parking lots or coal yards, so they could easily get in and out without too much notice, then they built little houses in the back for extra income," Ms. Kellerman said. Because the laws did not regulate construction of stables and workshops in the rear yards, smaller structures that were converted later were still built as late as the early 1900's.
The inviting two-bedroom house behind Judith and John Stonehill's Federal house was one such building, a stable put up in 1889, probably to replace an earlier one. The house in front, which is on the National Register of Historic Places, was built in 1834 with an arched passageway on one side that would have been just big enough to fit a horse led by a groomsman. (These "horse walks," common in the Village, usually masquerade as second entrances to the house, with wooden doors.)
A hayloft door, topped by a hook for hauling goods to the loft, is still visible above the backhouse's front entrance, and an interior wall still shows evidence of the archway through which carriages would have entered.
The Stonehills bought their property, including the restored barn, in 1968, when the neighborhood bordered commercial areas. The backhouse has a sizable kitchen (by Manhattan standards), which occupies a corner of its open-plan first floor. Behind the soaring ceiling with exposed beams in the living room-dining room, a restored mahogany staircase leads to two large bedrooms and a bath upstairs. The space has often served as a studio and residence for artists, including the photographer Diane Arbus, who rented the rear before the Stonehills bought the property.
These days, the existence of such a rentable rear house can increase the purchase price of a front property in the Village by $750,000 to $1.25 million, according to Debra Kameros, a real estate agent who specializes in the West Village.
Backhouses rarely come up for sale on their own. "There are very few with their own tax lots," Ms. Kameros explained. When they are sold separately, they are desirable properties, especially if they are renovated, single-family homes with private outdoor space (most have to share a yard with the front house). One such two-bedroom, two-bath house with a patio on its roof was listed last spring for $2.25 million, more than double what a similar-sized apartment in the same neighborhood might sell for, though Ms. Kameros was quick to point out that this house was an exceptional example. "In any case, these are atypical properties," she said. "The whole appeal is the hidden nature and the charm." Many, like the Sokolov-Hecht house, are co-ops that are legally part of the front building, which is usually a tenement from a later era.
Whole houses or apartments to rent are almost as rare, listed only once or twice a year. "The people they attract as renters have been waiting a long time for them, and they tend to stay," Ms. Kameros said. 
As rental spaces, rear houses can sometimes be relative bargains. The three-floor, four-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath 1867 house behind Cher Lewis's quaint brick front building rents for $4,200 a month, a price that is a couple of thousand dollars lower than some tenants are willing to pay. 
"The reason I rent it for less than market value is because it's very difficult to have someone living so near to you," who is not compatible, said Ms. Lewis, a retired consultant for nonprofit organizations. 
THAT sentiment is echoed by John Clarkson, who with his wife, Ellen, rents out a three-room 1850's stable behind their 11th Street house to Howell Binkley, a lighting designer. "We're very picky about the tenants," Mr. Clarkson said. "If we didn't live in the building in front, we might feel differently." 
Ms. Kameros said, "When you get a tenant that is working for you, one you're compatible with, you tend to keep them." She noted that single-family backhouses usually rent to couples or singles, for $4,000 to $7,000 a month. "Maybe you start renting at the lower end of market value, but over time you leave it at that price and that gets to be a good deal" for the tenant.
In backhouses that have been converted to multifamily dwellings, however, the rents are comparable to those elsewhere downtown. In fact, life in the tiny flats could be mistaken for cramped New York in any neighborhood. 
The handful of tenants in the rear at 93 Perry Street enjoy the old-world feel of their 1827 stuccoed and green-shuttered building; their rent-stabilized studio to two-bedroom apartments rented earlier this year for as little as $106 to as much as $2,500 a month, according to an executive of the management company.
Most of the many hidden houses that exist on tiny Cornelia Street, including seven on the west side of the block alone, are apartment buildings containing studios and one-bedroom units. If the tenants -- largely artists and professionals -- are lucky, the original fireplaces still work. But for many, the 200-square-foot, rent-stabilized studios are no different from the ones found in any subdivided house in the Village, costing up to $1,350 a month. One benefit is the extra privacy and inherent charm of life in the back yard.
Ms. Jacobs suggested that it is this allure that could be a template for contemporary urban planning. She supports repealing the state laws regulating back-lot building, so owners can once again erect these hidden gems. "It should be recognized how charming these places are and how sanitized they are, and how inappropriately they have been ruled out. But I guarantee you nobody is re-examining these laws to see why they're still prohibited," she said of the backhouses. "And it's too bad, because these houses are a great treasure."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Right, one of a pair of clapboard cottages tucked into a sliver of space between two buildings on a twisted street in Greenwich Village. The backhouse above is a three-room 1850's stable entered from 11th Street. (Photographs by Monika Graff for The New York Times)(pg. 1); An 800-square-foot four-room house, built in 1828 on the Samuel Jones farm. It and a similar house are part of a co-op with the apartment building on the street.; The two-bedroom house owned by Judith and John Stonehill was built as a stable in 1889; its living room-dining room has exposed beams and a mahogany staircase. (Photographs by Monika Graff for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%) HOUSING 

PERSON: BANDON, ALEXANDRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) GREENWICH VILLAGE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



586 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Mayors Tout Cities' Health to Tempt Investors 

BYLINE:  By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: YONKERS 

 BODY:
HOPING to tempt a panel of venture capitalists and lure new investment, participants in the first annual Westchester Mayors' Business Summit on Wednesday promoted their cities' recent economic achievements. More than 200 business and government leaders attended. 
 Mayor John D. Spencer of Yonkers detailed recent developments along his city's waterfront. He began with the $53 million Larkin Center, the new home of the Yonkers Public Library and the city's Board of Education, which opened in September. 
 Other Hudson Riverfront projects in Yonkers include the $35 million renovation of the Metro-North station across from Larkin Center, a $10 million six-story parking garage, a $60 million, 266-unit apartment complex being built by Collins Enterprises of Stamford, Conn., and the $13 million Esplanade Park, a 1.5-mile promenade along the shoreline.
Mayor Timothy C. Idoni of New Rochelle highlighted his city's recent economic achievements, among them the $17 million Intermodal Transportation Center, which will serve as a hub for Amtrak and Metro-North train service and is expected to be completed in the spring. Avalon on the Sound, a 25-story luxury apartment building has gone up next to the Long Island Sound, but its second tower has been delayed due to the prolonged economic downturn. Private developers are spending $15 million to convert a former Bloomingdale's, empty for 25 years, to condominium lofts. Because Community Preservation Corporation, a nonprofit consortium of banks and insurance companies based in Manhattan, expects the project to revitalize the neighborhood, it is offering mortgage loans to surrounding property owners so they can build apartments above retail stores.
In White Plains, Mayor Joseph M. Delfino reported that redevelopment is transforming his city. The Valhalla-based builder Louis R. Cappelli is building a $300 million City Center with retail and residential space, a 15-screen movie theater and a hotel. Six blocks away, Fortunoff is building a 260,000-square-foot store. LCOR, a construction company based in Berwyn, Pa., is building a $137 million apartment complex on a 2.6-acre site. A $6 million, 70,000-square-foot Stop & Shop is under construction; it will be the city's first major supermarket.
In late September, Mr. Cappelli bought another city block in White Plains across from his City Center. The new project, a $300 million investment, will include a 200-room hotel, luxury condominiums and street-level retail stores.
Mayor Ernest D. Davis reported on Mount Vernon. There, the Sandford Boulevard Redevelopment Project is progressing, and will include a ShopRite superstore and a CVS. Recently, he said, ground was broken for a Best Buy store, and a 285,000-square-foot shopping center is being planned.
Mayor Steven Otis of Rye said that his city, the smallest of the county's cities, had a 90 percent occupancy rate in its 850,000 square feet of office space.
Venture capital firms represented on the panel included GreenHills Ventures, New York Community Investment Corporation, Milestone Venture Partners and Enhanced Capital Partners, all of Manhattan, Signature Bank of New Rochelle and Morgan Stanley of White Plains. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (88%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); RETAIL PROPERTY (87%); RETAILERS (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (74%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (72%); LIBRARIES (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TRENDS (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); INSURANCE (64%); MOVIE THEATERS (50%) CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; VENTURE CAPITAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: COMMUNITY PRESERVATION CORP (66%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (55%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (55%)

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



587 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: COUNTY LINES; 
A Chef's Dream: To Stir Yonkers

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA ROWE 

 BODY:
PETER KELLY, culinary king of the suburbs with four high-flying restaurants in Rockland and Putnam Counties, is preparing to close the crown jewel of his empire on Jan. 1, 2003, and open a new venture on the waterfront in Yonkers, near industrial lots where commuter buses sigh and people push shopping carts piled with their personal belongings.
 "Are you crazy?" asked Mr. Kelly's family and friends when they learned of his plans. "What's wrong with Scarsdale? What's wrong with Bedford?" 
 Nothing, said Mr. Kelly. But those towns have no waterfront, and the Hudson River has beckoned him like a siren since childhood. Mr. Kelly was born in Yonkers not far from the river, and he has been angling for a way to get back ever since opening his first restaurant at the age of 23. That early start, Xaviar's at Garrison, won raves for its gargantuan Sunday brunches where diners gorged on two dozen versions of shrimp, rabbit and roast beef while sipping mimosas and ogling power brokers doing the same. 
After 20 years in Garrison, Mr. Kelly says it is time for a new challenge. And he wants it to be in Yonkers, a city associated more often with bruising racial politics than delicate canapes.
"I know Yonkers has been 'coming back' for the last 45 years," he said. "But this time, it's for real."
No doubt, his optimism is grounded in the city's $400 million downtown revitalization plan, already well under way, with designs to turn gritty lots into a new yuppie haven complete with art galleries, lofts and condominiums. Officials even talk of reviving the old Hudson River ferry to shuttle those new residents from Yonkers to Midtow in 18 minutes. At night they might watch a game in the city's yet-to-be-built minor league baseball stadium. 
All that is part of the glittering future. The present-day site for the restaurant is still peopled with angry-looking teenagers who wander in and out of abandoned buildings and old-timers who say they like Yonkers the way it's always been: tough.
But Mr. Kelly, a breezy, blustery 43-year-old, is not cowed. He has forged his career by building ambitious restaurants in places people don't think they want to visit. The hugely successful Xaviar's at Piermont, which now caters to a roster of celebrities, was built in what he called a "blue-collar outpost." His next venture, the sumptuous Restaurant X, flourishes in in nondescript Congers. Even the airy, blue dining room in Mr. Kelly's flagship seemed outlandish when the unschooled chef opened it in sleepy bucolic Garrison.
Yonkers, however, is no small town. In Garrison, Mr. Kelly's toughest battle was soothing ruffled feathers on the planning board when he wanted to place a sign on a quiet country road. Now he is talking about building a glamour destination within sight of a towering housing project. No one has yet signed papers designating Yonkers's historic pier as Mr. Kelly's new home, though the ever-confident chef says he is sure city officials are with him on this. Anywhere he lands along the waterfront, there will be parking crunches, customer safety concerns and residents who are not necessarily thrilled that Mr. Kelly and his upscale show are coming to town.
"I liked it the way it was," said Frank Kendrick, who runs the boatman's shack on the pier that Mr. Kelly hopes to turn into a glittering magnet for well-heeled gourmands. Mr. Kelly smiled at this grumbling, asked Mr. Kendrick if he could unlock the pier's upper floor and kept right on spinning his vision: the restaurant, all glass windows, leather armchairs and catwalks, would be built right there on the pier's Victorian ironwork, jutting into the Hudson like a ship's figurehead. 
If the chef gets his way -- and he often does -- Xaviar's on the Hudson will open in summer 2003. In Mr. Kelly's mind, the new venture will anchor Yonkers's entire waterfront revival. It happened in Baltimore, he said. And in Hoboken. 
"It's always done with independent restaurants," Mr. Kelly said. "You can't do it with Pizzeria Uno." 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); SUBURBS (78%); CELEBRITIES (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CONDOMINIUMS (63%); BASEBALL (62%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (62%); FERRIES (50%) RESTAURANTS 

ORGANIZATION: XAVIAR'S AT GARRISON (GARRISON, NY, RESTAURANT); XAVIAR'S ON THE HUDSON (YONKERS, NY, RESTAURANT) 

PERSON: KELLY, PETER; ROWE, CLAUDIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



588 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2291 words

HEADLINE: Going Organic 

BYLINE:  By GALE T. SCOTT 

DATELINE: HOPEWELL TOWNSHP 

 BODY:
JOE RUGGIERI'S crops this year at Hopeview Farm included green beans, sold at his produce stand for a dollar a pound. Next year his offerings will include organic "haricots verts" -- French for green beans -- that cost a hefty $6 a pound.
 It is a price consumers will pay for fresh local produce grown free of pesticides. 
 After decades of conventional farming -- using chemicals to clear weeds, kill pests, and fertilize crops -- the 42-year-old Mr. Ruggieri is going organic. 
He plans to return to many of the same techniques his grandfather used so he can grow organic crops on a seven-acre section of the 85-acre family farm. That includes using composts for fertilizer, rotating crops to avoid plant diseases, and planting "cover crops" like alfalfa to keep weeds in control until it is time to sow his pesticide-free organic seeds.
Mr. Ruggieri is joining the small but steadily growing ranks of organic farmers in New Jersey.
There are now at least 55 state-certified organic farms throughout the state, and still more farmland is in transition. By comparison, said Karen Anderson, executive director of the Northeast Organic Farming Association of New Jersey, there were only 12 organic farms in the state as recently as 1990.
In keeping with strict state and federal standards for organic farming, Mr. Ruggieri has been letting 10 acres of his farm "rest" for the past three years. No crops have been grown there -- allowing the chemical pesticides and fertilizers to break down -- the first step in becoming a certified organic grower.
"It's an experiment," he said. "I'll still rely on conventional crops on the rest of the farm. But I'm kind of psyched about the idea."
Since 1990, Ms. Anderson said her advocacy group had been inspecting farms and certifying whether produce met organic standards. At the same, the organization has turned to marketing to get consumers and growers interested. So far, it seems to be working.
Drawn by curiosity, concerns about health and the environment as well as studies showing consumers will pay more for organic crops, many farmers are expressing an interest in learning organic methods, said Patrick K. Mullen, New Jersey Department of Agriculture's acting director of the division of dairy and commodity regulation.
"What's driving the trend is that people want home-grown organic products," Mr. Mullen said.
New Jersey's organic farmlands comprise 2,200 acres, most of which produce vegetables sold directly to consumers or restaurants. Though that is a small percentage of the state's 29,400 acres farmed for fresh-market vegetables, and a smaller still percentage of the 830,000-acre total for New Jersey farmlands, it is a number that is widely expected to increase.

Demand Growing Each Year
"There's a $250 million market in New Jersey for organic produce," said Ramu Govindasamy, an economist and associate professor of agriculture at Rutgers's Cook College in New Brunswick.
He bases that estimate on the $7.8 billion the nation spends annually on purchasing organic foods, noting that demand has been growing by 20 percent to 25 percent a year.
But when New Jersey shoppers buy organic produce at most chain supermarkets, he said, it has come from out of state, often from abroad.
Ms. Anderson said that such produce was often days or weeks old, harvested before it is ripe, and did not always offer the superior taste that local produce offered -- as big a selling point for organic vegetables as health and environmental concerns.
As Mr. Govindasamy noted, if local growers could produce enough organic crops to make it feasible for supermarkets to distribute them, they could tap a huge market.
But for now, he said, it was a problem of distribution methods used by supermarkets; for now, there is not enough organic produce being harvested in New Jersey to make it worthwhile for the big chains to place orders. 
Even so, local farmers who grow organic crops still stand to gross from $5,000 to $10,000 an acre or more by selling directly to consumers or to restaurants, according to a recent Cook College survey of organic farmers in New Jersey, New York, and Pennsylvania. By contrast, the New Jersey Department of Agriculture reported that in 2000, soybean farmers grossed only $176 an acre.
But 30 percent of that money will go toward labor costs, said Ms. Anderson, as against a negligible labor cost for the large-scale mechanized techniques used in crops like soybeans and corn.
Still, another recent Cook College study found that only 17 percent of 162 organic farmers surveyed were dissatisfied with their profits, with 71 percent satisfied or somewhat satisfied and 11 percent very satisfied.
"In the beginning there was a lot of distrust between organic farmers and conventional farmers; they called us hippies and we called them nozzleheads," said Ms. Anderson, a reference to hoses used to spray farms with chemicals. "We tend to be too earnest sometimes. We're trying to lighten up.'
But as the numbers emerge showing that organics can be profitable, she said, more farmers are turning out at her organization's conferences.
"Now we're hearing farmers say they would really like to try organic and they want to learn more about our methods," she said.
In 2000, there were 98,000 New Jersey acres cultivated in soybeans that, almost 45 acres for every acre of an organic crop. Corn grown for grain -- not the sweet corn sold for the table -- took up 75,000 acres and sold for $255 an acre, the 2001 state report found.
It is a set of statistics that frustrates the state's agricultural economists.
"Corn and soybeans are not good for New Jersey," said Mr. Govindasamy. "We need more specialty crops and organic is one of them."
One reason that farmers grow soybeans and corn is that federal price supports encourage the practice. Another is that state programs that use tax revenue to allow farmlands to remain undeveloped make it easier for farmers to grow cheap crops, he said. 
"They are taxed at a far lower rate," said Mr. Govindasamy.
But proponents of organic farming say that it has the potential to be profitable, making it possible to preserve farmlands without taxpayers having to help as much as they now do.
"It's time to start asking ourselves whether we want to preserve these farmlands for more than the view," said Ms. Anderson.
As for the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, it says it welcomes the organic trend, since -- as Ms. Anderson said -- it is not as if in the days of Mr. Ruggieri's grandfather farming was particularly sound environmentally.
"They started using arsenic and some other pretty scary things to control pests in the early part of the last century," she said.
But as farms grew bigger in the post-World War II era -- from an average of 242 acres in 1953 to 434 acres in 2000 -- widespread use of pesticides, herbicides, and chemical fertilizers began to take an heavy toll on the environment.
According to the state environmental agency, in 2000 farmers throughout New Jersey used 1,090,300 pounds of pesticides.
According to the state Department of Agriculture, in 2001 farms used 160,359 tons of fertilizers alone -- most of them chemical -- and the runoff from some of them disrupts the ecology of streams and wetlands by spurring the rapid growth of plants and algae.
Yet there is a hesitance to to go organic, said Mr. Ruggieri, largely because in making the change he knows he may lose money for a while.

Land Must Rest Three Years
The first hurdle is the requirement that no chemical insecticides, herbicides, fungicides, rodent-killers, fumigants, growth regulators, bactericides, or fertilizers be used on the land for three years before crops can be considered organic.
That also means giving up crop income for three years, a major obstacle in selling the concept of organic farming to conventional growers, said Mr. Govindasamy. 
The other risk is that although organic crops command a higher price at the market, they are expensive to grow because they need to be hand-weeded, carefully monitored for pest infestation, composted instead of sprayed with chemical fertilizers, and planted with precise timing.
"I'm worried about labor costs," said Mr. Ruggieri.
Moreover, organic farming puts farmers at the mercy of insects and severe weather that can stress or even kill crops.
"No way I could grow sweet corn organically," said Mr. Ruggieri. "Too many insects."
But he does plan to grow gourmet lettuce, cold-weather greens like Swiss chard, cabbages, and kale, and summer vegetables like eggplant, tomatoes, and green beans.
At least for these crops, it will be a planting season free of trips to the local Agway for a load of 10-10-10 fertilizer. No spraying RoundUp when weeds emerge. It will be a challenge.
"But I want to try it," said Mr. Ruggieri. "It gets boring doing the same kind of farming for years and years. It's what consumers want. It's healthy. I want to grow beautiful vegetables.'
He said he got the idea from neighboring Spring Hill Farm and its manager, Pam Flory. "I've been watching Pam farm for three years," he said. "Her produce is really something to look at. She grows fantastic crops."
The world of organic farming is an exclusive club -- in more ways than one.
For instance, Ms. Flory farms a seven-acre tract of Spring Hill for its owner, J. Seward Johnson, the artist and heir to the Johnson & Johnson fortune.
The list of organic sugar-daddies also includes the rock musician Bruce Springsteen, who has commissioned an organic farm at his newly renovated Monmouth County farmhouse.
At least five of the state's certified organic farms are cultivated under a similar arrangement with wealthy individuals, Ms. Anderson said.
"We refer to people like Mr. Johnson as high-resource, high-profile, high-motivational landowners," said Ms. Anderson, a former law librarian whose work is partly supported by a two-year fellowship from the W. K. Kellogg Foundation.
She said these ventures would prove that organic methods worked.
Yet at the same time, seeing millionaires dabbling in organic growing makes some conventional farmers leery of its economic viability.
"The family farm isn't a tax write-off for me," said Mr. Ruggieri. "Some of these farmer have money to burn. I sure don't."
For instance, when deer were destroying Ms. Flory's crop's, Mr. Johnson paid for a fence, Ms. Flory said. As for Mr. Ruggieri, he has to pay for his own fences.
Mr. Johnson said the idea for the organic farm came to him about three years ago when he and his wife bought the farmland, on which they are also building a home. At about the same time he was opening his upscale restuarant, Rats, near his sculpture garden and atelier in Hamilton Township.
"We wanted to get the best food, and my chef was very enthusiastic about getting organic produce," he said. "The taste of these vegetables is really outstanding. Our eggs are phenomenal."
The prospect of having his own farm to visit also appealed to him.
"My father actually tried to encourage me to be a farmer, bought me a farm of my own when I was 19," Mr. Johnson said, "but at the time I hated it. I couldn't stand the sweat and chaffing from the hay. I ended up bringing a girlfriend to the hayloft, I found that was a better use for the barn."
Age has brought a greater appreciation of the beauty of rural surroundings, he said.
He is also pleased with his choice of Ms. Flory to run the farm and tickled by the fact that all her farmhands are women. "She tells me she won't hire men because they don't work hard enough," he said.
On one recent day, Ms. Flory loaded up the farm's battered white van with mesclun salad mix -- a blend of lettuces with herbs -- beets, heirloom tomatoes, sweet Harkuri turnips and more and began her restaurant deliveries. First stop was The Brothers Moon, a restaurant on Broad Street in Hopewell.
"I love this produce," said Will Moon, the restaurant's owner. "The mesclun is out of this world, and when we serve it it's just a few hours old."

A Day in the Life
And with the change in the weather, the crops also change. Soon the winter squashes will be in season, and Mr. Mooney said he could not wait to get his hands on Ms. Flory's kabocha -- a hard green squash he bakes and purees with vegetable broth for soup.
Next stop was an Italian restaurant, where Ms. Flory dropped off a $2 bunch of basil. "It's not worth it except it builds goodwill," she said. The rest of the produce would go to Rats Restaurant, and a harvest later that week would go to greenmarkets, including one in Summit.
A typical day for Ms. Flory starts around 7 a.m. and ends early in the evening. So it goes, six days a week with two days off every other week. She said the seven acres of produce brought in $65,000 last year -- not counting the harvest that went directly to Mr. Johnson's restaurant. It is a big number when compared to the yield from corn or soybeans, but it took a lot of work from Ms. Flory, her co-manager, Amy Longo, and the interns the farm hires -- all young women who hope to start their own organic farms.
Ms. Flory used to work at the Howell Living History Farm, a restored working farm owned and operated by Mercer County, which is where she met her husband Rob, the farm's ox driver.
When Ms. Flory, a Massachussetts native and Peace Corps veteran, heard three years ago that Mr. Johnson was thinking of starting an organic farm she lobbied hard for the job of running it.
Though Spring Hill has yet to turn a profit, she is convinced that within the next three years it will.
Looking out over the acreage, rows of new lettuce curling up from the ground like emerald ribbons of crushed velvet and a deep blue October sky overhead, Ms. Flory, suntanned and windblown, smiled.
Her work is a labor of love.
"I feel like I've won the farming Lotto," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: After decades of using chemicals to clear weeds, kill pests, and fertilize, Joe Ruggieri, who owns a farm in Hopewell, is growing organic crops. (Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. 1); A lettuce field at Spring Hill Farm in Hopewell; Pam Flory, right, grows organic vegetables on seven acres there for its owner, J. Seward Johnson, the artist and heir to the Johnson & Johnson fortune. At Hopeview, a nearby farm, Joe Ruggieri has decided to devote 7 of his 85 acres to organic crops. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); ORGANIC FOODS (90%); PESTICIDES (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FERTILIZERS (89%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (78%); HERBICIDES (78%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); EXECUTIVES (66%); RESTAURANTS (60%) AGRICULTURE; ORGANIC FOOD 

PERSON: RUGGIERI, JOE; SCOTT, GALE T 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW JERSEY; HOPEWELL (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



589 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Some 4th-Quarter Housekeeping Can Save on Taxes

BYLINE:  By JAN M. ROSEN 

 BODY:
WITH the economy stumbling and the stock market still struggling to rebound, a year-end bonus may seem the stuff of dreams. But Americans have one sure way to create their own cash cushions: using fourth-quarter financial moves to lower their 2002 tax bills.
 "It's turning the downturn into some positives -- making the lemons into lemonade," said Kim Landry, a certified financial planner and vice president at A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis. 
 Ms. Landry recommends that investors perform a "portfolio cleanup," to sell some holdings that have declined, along with some winners. "Many people have held onto stocks for a long time because they do not want to pay the capital gains tax," she said. But capital losses offset capital gains dollar for dollar, so selling portfolio losers may let shareholders recognize their gains in the same year with no tax liability. 
What's more, if they have a net capital loss of up to $3,000, it can offset ordinary income. For a middle-class taxpayer, that can mean total savings of more than $1,000 on federal and state taxes. Anything over $3,000 is carried forward indefinitely to future years.
Many people do not want to abandon quality stocks that are down in price, Ms. Landry said. But it is possible to hold on to the stock, yet recognize the loss for tax purposes by buying an equal number of shares of the same issue before Nov. 29 and selling the original holding before Dec. 31.
Taxpayers cannot just sell the stock and buy it right back. That would run afoul of what is known as the wash-sale rule; under it, a loss will not be recognized for tax purposes if a taxpayer buys the same issue within 31 days. Still, someone holding a losing position might consider selling now and buying back into it after 31 days, Ms. Landry said, if he or she does not have the idle cash to double up.
Charitable gifts can also reduce taxes. If appreciated securities are given to charity, the taxpayer deducts the fair market value and owes no capital gains tax on the appreciation. "Taxpayers should be sure the securities are out of their accounts and into the charity's accounts by the end of the year to get the deduction," she said.
Brent Lipschultz, senior manager for personal financial planning in the New York office of KPMG, says that many charitably inclined people routinely fulfill their pledges by giving securities. If a stock is down, however, as many are this year, it is better to sell it, take the capital loss and then donate the proceeds to charity, he said.
Strategies for gifts can be used to lower estate and income taxes, Mr. Lipschultz said. This year, individual gifts of up to $11,000 a recipient have no gift or estate tax consequences, up from $10,000 in previous years. Up to five years' worth of gifts can be made at once to a state-sponsored Section 529 college savings plan. This means that a married couple could put $110,000 into a plan for a child or grandchild with no gift-tax consequences. The money would be out of their estate, and when it was distributed for qualified college expenses, the earnings on the money would be free of tax.
Mr. Lipschultz cited another approach for using gifts to pay college costs. Parents who have invested over the years for their children's educations often sell securities to pay tuition and other expenses, and then owe taxes of up to 20 percent on any long-term capital gains. As an alternative, they can give up to $11,000 in stock to a student who has little or no other income, and the student can sell it to pay the expenses herself; she will be taxed at just 8 percent on gains on stocks her parents held at least five years.
Tax-deferred retirement plans are a longtime favorite way to lower tax bills, and the contribution limits are higher this year. Employed people may put up to $11,000 in a 401(k) or 403(b) plan; those 50 and older can put in an extra $1,000 under new catch-up provisions. Contribution limits for Individual Retirement Accounts are now $3,000, or $3,500 for those 50 and older, up from the long-established $2,000.
Avery E. Neumark, partner in charge of employee benefits and executive compensation at Rosen Seymour Shapss Martin & Company in New York, said many self-employed people could put away more for retirement because the income limits upon which the contributions are calculated have risen this year. For a form of I.R.A. known as a SEP, or simplified employee pension, the limit is $200,000.
Other plans for self-employed people are money-purchase and profit-sharing plans, formerly known as Keoghs. People with any self-employment income, including sideline work or director's fees, should be sure to establish these plans, Mr. Neumark said. By law, the plans must be set up before Dec. 31, although people can wait until the due date of their tax returns to put the money into the account. The wait gives taxpayers or their tax preparers time to complete the complex calculations needed to figure the right amount.
 RETIREMENT contributions can mean a double tax savings, Mr. Neumark noted. The money is not taxed for this year, and it lowers adjusted gross income, which may allow a taxpayer greater savings from itemized deductions and personal exemptions.
Ms. Landry said another way to take advantage of the market's downturn was to convert a traditional I.R.A. to a Roth I.R.A. Such conversations are allowed for taxpayers whose adjusted gross incomes are below $100,000, but taxes must be paid at conversion. (That is because pretax money has gone into a traditional I.R.A., while after-tax money goes into a Roth I.R.A., allowing retirement distributions to be free of tax.) In previous years, she said, many people who wanted to convert to Roth I.R.A.'s felt that they could not afford the tax bite. "Now people can use the depressed value to their advantage from a tax standpoint," she said.
Other tax savings are available to people aged 70 1/2 or older who are required by law to take distributions from I.R.A.'s and retirement plans. "For 2002, the minimum distributions rules were revised again, downward, to reflect longer life expectancies," Mr. Neumark said. "That is good because it allows more money to accumulate in the account tax-deferred."
For increasing numbers of taxpayers, year-end planning now involves calculating whether they are liable for the alternative minimum tax, noted Julian Block, a tax lawyer in Larchmont, N.Y. The Treasury Department projects that 2.7 million Americans will be affected by the A.M.T. this year, roughly double the number in 2001 and triple the number in 2000, because of changes in tax law last year.
If so, appropriate planning can often be reversed. "Traditional advice is to accelerate deductions and defer income," he said. Under the alternative minimum tax, rates are a bit lower, at 26 or 28 percent, versus a normal top rate of 38 percent. But many deductions are not allowed, so a taxpayer may want to accelerate income and defer deductions. One big lost deduction under the A.M.T. is state and local income and real estate taxes. A potential A.M.T. liability may help a taxpayer decide whether to pay estimated taxes and real estate taxes in the fourth quarter or in January. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL GAINS TAX (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); ESTATE PLANNING (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX CONSULTING (77%); ESTATE TAX (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%) TAXATION 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



590 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: EAST SIDE; 
Strollers Aplenty, but What About Desks?

BYLINE:  By ERIKA KINETZ 

 BODY:
There must be a lot of love on the East Side. The area has experienced a baby boomlet, fueled not only by ardor but also by prosperity, residential construction and good schools.
 Between 1990 to 2000, when the number of children under 5 citywide grew only 6 percent, on the East Side it jumped 22 percent, according to analysis of census data by Andrew A. Beveridge and Susan Weber, sociologists at Queens College. 
 The relatively affluent enclave those children were born into has changed in the last few years. Wall Street is staggering and the city is facing a fiscal crisis. The East Side's good and often excellent public schools, which between 1990 and 2000 had to accommodate an additional 4,100 children, are near or over capacity.
"My husband teases me that every time I see a pregnant woman, I have a little bit of, 'Oh, my God, where is that kid going to go to school?' " said Councilwoman Eva Moskowitz, who represents the East Side of Manhattan and is herself expecting a baby in January.
The situation may get worse. Planned redevelopment of a 9.2-acre site along First Avenue between 35th and 41st Streets, owned by Consolidated Edison, could bring 6,000 new apartments to the area by 2011. FSM East River Associates, a development partnership, bought the property in 2000. 
In response, Community Board 6 has asked the Public Service Commission, which must approve the transfer of land from Con Ed to the developers, to require the developers to include a school in their plans. 
"New school space is critical if thousands of new residential units are created in a school district that is already full of overcrowded classrooms," said Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, whose Congressional district includes the area.
The developers have conceded that a new school is a real possibility.
"The environmental impact statement indicates that if there is a shortage of seats as a result of the development, the Public Service Commission may consider a range of remedies, including construction of a new school on the site," said Howard J. Rubenstein, a spokesman for the developers.
Local residents say that real estate brokers praise Public School 116, on East 33rd Street, as an alternative to newcomers moving into the area, but they fear that an influx of children would create a problem.
"They need to give back to the community by allowing us some space for school," Kathy Marchi, co-president of the P.T.A. at P.S. 116, said of the developers. "P.S. 116 offers an incredible education, which will not be possible if everything is overcrowded."
Many local residents fear that if more schools are not built, recent progress will be unwound. 
"It used to be in the 70's, people would move out before they had their first kid," Ms. Moskowitz said. "If you stop collecting the garbage and regulating the noise, and if you don't provide them with schooling options, you will lose them." ERIKA KINETZ

GRAPHIC: Photo: Future scholars in Carl Schurz Park. The number of East Side children is soaring. (Alan Chin for The New York Times) Chart: "GROWING PAINS: A Baby Boomlet"The population of young children has increased much faster on the East Side than in the city as a whole. East Side (14th to 96th Street)1990Total population: 360,329Children age 0-4: 11,797 2000Total population: 371,234Children age 0-4: 14,435 IncreaseTotal population: 10,905 (3 percent)Children age 0-4: 2,638 (22.4 percent) Citywide1990Total population: 7,322,564Children age 0-4: 509,740 2000Total population: 8,008,278Children age 0-4: 540,878 IncreaseTotal population: 685,714 (9.4 increase)Children age 0-4: 31,138 (6.1 percent) (Source: Census data; Susan Weber, Queens College Department of Sociology)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); TRENDS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); CENSUS (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (72%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (55%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (55%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: CAROLYN MALONEY (51%) KINETZ, ERIKA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



591 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: TRENDS; 
A Fish Tale

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH D'AGNESE 

 BODY:
ONE sushi place, two sushi places, three sushi places.
 In the same way that towns can boast of two or more pizza places, Chinese restaurants and diners, they can now point out that one's craving for raw fish can be satisfied just as easily. 
 Yet sushi is not cheap, and times are not flush. So why -- at a time when the economy is gasping, when local fishermen are crying foul over the plunder of prime fishing grounds by foreign seamen, and when environmentalists are warning that countless species are threatened -- are New Jersey restaurateurs opening sushi restaurants faster than salmon can climb a ladder? 
"Because it's low-calorie and tasty -- that's why," said Kunio Yasutake, a Washington-based restaurateur who is president of the United States Sushi Association.
Mr. Yasutake says that the number of sushi restaurants in the nation -- currently about 5,300 -- appears to be growing, and that does not include some of the more creative venues like supermarkets, catering halls and mainstream restaurants.
Although the New Jersey Restaurant Association does not break down the number establishments by the types of cuisine offered, Deborah Dowdell, the organization's executive vice president, said her instincts told her something was afoot.
For one thing, Ms. Dowdell said, New Jersey is home to many corporations, providing a steady of stream of Asians coming here to live and work. In addition, the state's Asian population is already more than 2 percent higher than the national average, according to the 2000 census.
While the Japanese population trails behind the number of residents of Chinese and Korean descent, that eclectic mix is having an effect on dining choices. Then there is the inescapable -- New Jersey's proximity to New York City.
"Right now in suburbia you have a concentration of ethnic Asians," said Charles Hamade, co-owner of Wild Ginger, an upscale Asian fusion restaurant in Englewood.
Mr. Hamade, who is Lebanese, shares the business with a Japanese partner, Yoshiharu Suzuki, formerly of Gibbon in Manhattan. "It used to be that these families would live in the city," Mr. Hamade said, "but the city has become too expensive. And after Sept. 11, I think a lot of people are moving out of the city. You're going to see a massive amount of restaurants."
Summit is a perfect study in suburban sushi. The upscale town already has one prominent sushi restaurant, Brix 67, with an outdoor cafe across from the New Jersey Transit station. Elsewhere in town, a small Chinese restaurant sells sushi, and a more traditional Japanese restaurant is also in the works. That means that when Allan Luftig, a commercial photographer from Millburn, and his partners -- Carl Waltzer and On Le, a chef with three sushi restaurants in Manhattan -- open their place, Monster Sushi, they will have competition from no fewer than three sushi restaurants.
Asked if that was a bit daunting, Mr. Luftig said: "I think there's always going to be competition. But I'm confident were going to stick out. Remember, it's not only Summit, but a number of towns out here: Short Hills, Chatham, Millburn."
Not that the appetite for sushi is confined to New Jersey. In the last four years, the California Sushi Academy, the nation's first school for sushi chefs, has graduated about 450 students -- some of whom came from Japan for a six-month course and were snapped up by employers.
"We are getting more and more phone calls from restaurants looking for chefs," said Phillip Yi, the school's director. "That's not just in the United States but all over the world."
Mr. Yi added: "People are looking for alternative ways to eat out. They've had the Italian food, Chinese food, French food, and now they're looking for healthier ways of eating and something that's completely different. At a sushi restaurant, the food is being prepared right in front of you, it's not being brought out from the kitchen. And the atmosphere when you go into a sushi bar is pretty high-energy, pretty lively."
While the number of sushi restaurants in New Jersey is climbing, the phenomenon is not limited to restaurants. Four years ago, Kings Supermarkets, based in Parsippany, started selling take-out sushi. Today, 21 of its 28 stores offer prepackaged meals, of which 8 feature on-site sushi chefs.
While purists might quibble that some of the fish is cooked or smoked, there is no arguing with customer taste; Kings says business has doubled in four years.
These days, when a couple plans a wedding in New Jersey, they are likely to be offered a sushi "upgrade" to their catering plan. For instance, at Mayfair Farms in West Orange, Marty Horn, one of the owners, has made that option available for the last four years, and he says that competitors are doing the same thing.
"Appetites have changed," said Mr. Horn, who is also president of the New Jersey Restaurant Association. "People used to go to Benihana, which was everyone's idea of a traditional Japanese restaurant. But for years now they know and want sushi. They gravitate more toward different rolls -- spicy tuna, California rolls."
Yet this endless ubiquity worries Mr. Hamade of Wild Ginger in Englewood.
"Everyone is jumping on the bandwagon," he said. "You can walk into a Chinese restaurant and get sushi. What no one understands is that it's difficult to find really good Japanese sushi chefs. Some of these people have not lived in Japan, nor have they been trained in Japan. And that's why the food is miserable. There is what I call a uniquely Japanese approach to sushi. It starts with knowing your fish, buying sushi-grade fish, and knowing how to slice it."
Some, like Mr. Luftig of Monster Sushi in Summit, would argue that there is also a uniquely American-style sushi, like the kind his partner, Mr. Le, offers at his restaurants in Midtown Manhattan, Chelsea and the West Village -- known for bright colors, chefs who joke with patrons, playful movie posters and 3-D monsters that spoof old Japanese movies.
"When parents walk past the restaurants in the city," he said, "their kids always want to go inside because they love those monsters."
Of course, not everyone is thrilled, said Mr. Luftig, who noted that one person in Summit griped: "Another sushi place? We need a British tearoom in this town."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The number of sushi restaurants in the state is growing, and that does not include such venues as supermarkets -- like Wegmans in Bridgewater, at left -- catering halls and mainstream restaurants. An assistant at the Thai Chef in Somerville, Kittipan Chavee Wong prepares a dish. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); TRENDS (88%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); FISHES (77%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (73%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); SUBURBS (68%); CENSUS (67%); US PRESIDENTS (54%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (54%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (50%) RESTAURANTS; ASIAN-AMERICANS; SUSHI 

PERSON: D'AGNESE, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



592 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: URBAN TACTICS; 
They Fought Side by Side, and Long to Be Buried That Way

BYLINE:  By LAURIE KELLIHER 

 BODY:
SEMYON PUNDIK, 76, and Iosef Kruglyak, 75, never knew each other on the Eastern Front. The two men from Ukraine, among more than 1,000 World War II veterans of the Red Army now living in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, met only a few years ago. Yet when they talk about one another, they use the word "family." 
 Now, they anticipate the death they thought they would meet on a Russian battlefield more than half a century ago. Like many family members, they want to be buried side by side along with hundreds of their comrades. 
 "We want to be together at one cemetery," said Mr. Kruglyak, who defended the city of Sevastopol during the war and emigrated from Ukraine in 1992. "Because our families, most of them know each other here now, and when our children and grandchildren come to visit us, they will also see this friend and this friend and that friend, and they will remember our heroism." 
The veterans have their eye on a 5,000-square-foot plot in New Montefiore Cemetery in West Babylon, on Long Island. And an organization exists, albeit an impoverished one, that may one day help them achieve their goal. 
The group, the American Association of Invalids and Veterans of World War II From the Former U.S.S.R., began seven years ago with an informal organization of 30. It now has more than 3,000 in the New York region, 2,000 of whom live in Brooklyn. As Jews who shared both the deprivations of a brutal war against Hitler's forces and postwar anti-Semitism under a Soviet system they had risked their lives to preserve, their allegiance is not to the former Soviet Union, nor to the Red Army, nor even to Mother Russia, but to one another. 
Since 1997, the association has been operating on a shoestring out of a small second-floor office on Brighton 11th Street, just off Brighton Beach Avenue. What furniture they have was donated by local synagogues or taken from Dumpsters. The walls are plastered with hundreds of photographs showing the veterans, young and in uniform, during 1941 to 1945.
The $750 monthly rent is paid from membership fees of $1 per month, although only 40 percent of the veterans pay it and no one asks them for the money if they miss a month, or even if they miss every month. With the few hundred dollars left, the veterans publish a newsletter and buy birthday cakes to take to nursing homes and flower arrangements to take to funeral homes.
Seven veterans work as volunteers, arriving promptly at 10 a.m. in coats and ties and answering questions from the several dozen other veterans who visit the office on an average day. "I come here every day," said Leonid Rozenberg, the association's president. "I am 80 years old. I have a pacemaker. I have no strength. But I have to try."
AMONG the snapshots that trace the veterans' lives in Brighton Beach -- the birthday parties, the Victory Day commemorations -- is an image of the parcel of land in New Montefiore Cemetery. When some of the veterans' friends from the shtetls of Byelorussia, now Belarus, began buying small plots there together in 1996, many veterans began thinking about how they, too, would confront the inevitable.
The dream is currently a distant one. A block of several hundred plots would cost more than $25,000, an impossible sum for the veterans, some of whom can barely meet their own living expenses. Still, they write letters to senators, representatives and anyone else they think might help them realize this dream. Their hope is not only to acquire the land, but also to erect a small monument commemorating their war efforts, and perhaps benches where wives and children could sit and talk.
In the meantime, they attend one another's funerals, many of which are conducted by Rabbi Mark Zarkh, who works for Nevsky Chapels Funeral Home in Midwood, Brooklyn.
"The veterans come whenever one of these 3,000 guys dies," Rabbi Zarkh said. "They don't have limousines to take them. They take public transportation."
Most of the mourners are in the 80's, and the trip is difficult. "They push themselves," he said. "It's quite remarkable."
Rabbi Zarkh, whose family emigrated from Leningrad, does not charge for his services. "I owe them," he said. "I owe them my life. If it wasn't for these guys, I wouldn't be here today."
When a veteran dies, Alla Lisovetsky, a funeral director at Nevsky Chapels, arranges the best service she can within the $1,400 Medicaid burial budget. She also fills out all the necessary forms. "I consider each of them my grandfather," she said. "This isn't business."
Ms. Lisovetsky is assisted by Maria Gutman, who lives near Nevsky Chapels and whose father, a pilot, died in the war. "He was killed in Poland, but we don't know the place where he is buried," Ms. Gutman said. "It is the reason this is so close to my heart."
Ms. Gutman, who emigrated from Belarus in 1991, was drawn to the needs of the veterans early on. "When I first went to the funeral of a veteran here, I saw that their medals weren't on display," she said. "I thought, 'This is not good for our people who are going away.' Our people have a lot of medals."
In response, she bought a large burgundy velvet pillow and made some alterations to it so that, as is the custom in Russian military funerals, the pillow can sit on a podium next to the coffin, with all the veteran's medals pinned to it. 
This final service is, paradoxically, one of the few high points in the veterans' lives.
"They don't have much to look forward to," Rabbi Zarkh said. "Happiness is their children and grandchildren and their own funerals. What else is there for them?"
As the association's president, Mr. Rozenberg organizes small contingents to attend these events. "One of us tries to be at each funeral," he said. "Most of us are close to that way ourselves. We try to find kind words to say about it, but it is difficult. We had the same lives ourselves." 
"At the time of the war," Mr. Rozenberg added, "we didn't know anything. We just gave our lives for victory. Only after Stalin's death did we understand that he wanted to get rid of the Jews. Of course, we felt less patriotic after that."
Claudia Reichman, 81, is one of more than 500 women in the association. During the war, women served as radio communicators, translators, nurses, doctors and snipers. Ms. Reichman, who emigrated to the United States in 1982, was an army interpreter in Stalingrad. She says she finds it hard to reflect on the funerals of her compatriots here, largely because she has already seen the deaths of so many in her homeland.
"It was impossible to see every day the death of thousands of people, your comrades," she said. "Not one man, but thousands every day. If I am not crazy today, I don't know how, but nervous I am."
After a service at the funeral home, a veteran's body is taken for burial to one of several favored cemeteries: United Hebrew on Staten Island; Beth David in Elmont, on Long Island; Old Montefiore in St. Albans, Queens; Washington Cemetery in Midwood. The survivors usually make the most economical decision, which leaves the veterans scattered across New York.
This is not the veterans' preference.
"Here, I met people like me who went through the difficulties of war and anti-Semitism and immigration," said Boris Feldman, 81, who emigrated in 1995 and works at the association's office. "Here I have met such people that I want to be with during this life -- whatever is left -- and the next life too."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Aging members of a Red Army veterans group have their medals and their memories but, a rabbi says, "They don't have much to look forward to." (Justin Lane for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERANS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); ARMIES (90%); CEMETERIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (64%) VETERANS; CEMETERIES; NEW MONTEFIORE CEMETERY (WEST BABYLON, NY) 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: KELLIHER, LAURIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); UKRAINE (90%) RUSSIA; BROOKLYN (NYC); BRIGHTON BEACH (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



593 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
HSBC's New Loan: 2,000 Environmentalists

BYLINE:  By CHRISTINA LE BEAU 

 BODY:
LYNNE MARSHALL says she has never fully understood why HSBC Holdings, one of the world's largest banks, would send 2,000 employees on far-flung environmental expeditions. But Ms. Marshall, who was among the first to be chosen, is not second-guessing her employer.
 "This was a dream of a lifetime," said Ms. Marshall, 42, an HSBC vice president and trust account officer -- and an archaeology buff. She spent two weeks in July excavating animal bones and sifting sediment to help researchers study early man in Venta Micena, Spain, all at HSBC's expense. "I just can't believe I had this opportunity." 
 Ms. Marshall, from the HSBC office in Buffalo, is part of an uncommon experiment. HSBC, which is based in London, announced early this year that it was donating nearly $50 million to the Earthwatch Institute, WWF (formerly known as the World Wildlife Fund) and Botanic Gardens Conservation International for conservation projects worldwide over the next five years. It is by far the largest donation HSBC has ever made, and by far the largest that any of the three groups has received. 
But this corporate philanthropy is particularly unusual because HSBC employees like Ms. Marshall are spending two weeks at a time traversing jungles and glaciers and battling the elements, all in the name of environmental science. All told, HSBC and Earthwatch estimate that the 2,000 employee "fellows" will contribute in five years what might typically take the usual number of field workers on these projects 100 years to accomplish. And when they return from these research trips -- which are coordinated by Earthwatch -- the employees are expected not only to make presentations to colleagues, but also to create a related project in their home communities, using grants from HSBC.
By year-end, 210 employees will have participated, on trips to Brazil, Iceland, Sri Lanka, Australia and dozens of other places to help scientists study ecological systems and human civilization. An additional 290 will follow next year, with 500 more in each of the remaining three years. Earthwatch is getting $16 million to cover employee expenses and grants to scientists, and HSBC estimates that it will absorb an additional $4 million in costs associated with taking employees away from their work.
WWF is receiving $18.4 million to restore and protect several major river basin habitats. Botanic Gardens Conservation International will use its $11.6 million to protect endangered plant species and pay for botanical education programs.
The first group of HSBC employees to go on Earthwatch expeditions included 16 from the United States and was selected from nearly 2,200 applicants. Of HSBC's 170,000 employees, about 110,000 speak fluent-enough English -- a requirement -- to be eligible. Earthwatch chose the fellows; the bank doesn't see the applications, which ask employees to explain why they want to go and how they plan to share what they learn.
HSBC says the program is part of what it called a longstanding commitment to environmental and educational philanthropy projects. The company is a major corporate donor -- its philanthropic spending totaled $30.6 million in 2001. Until this year, however, HSBC had focused on local programs in the 81 countries and territories in which it operates, never exceeding $2 million or $3 million for a single project. 
"The environment is something that people feel very strongly about, and the reality is that we can make some difference there because of our scale," said Amanda Combes, the HSBC manager who oversees HSBC's community programs, including this latest venture, which HSBC calls Investing in Nature.
Ms. Combes, who is based in London, said the Earthwatch component, especially, showed the staff "that this is not just a perk, but a true demonstration that we as an organization take the environment seriously, that we're not just doing this as window dressing."
NOT everyone agrees that HSBC has a pristine record as a corporate citizen. It has underwritten bonds for the World Bank, which antiglobalization advocates accuse of having economic policies that undermine human rights and the environment in developing countries. And HSBC has made investments in socially and environmentally contentious projects in places like China and Indonesia, financing, for instance, nuclear plants and, in China, the Three Gorges Dam, which critics maintain will destroy the environment in the Yangtze River region. ISIS Asset Management, a London investment firm that monitors socially responsible investing, said in a recent report that HSBC was in its "chasing pack" category -- meaning that the bank had made progress assessing the environmental impact of its lending policies but still had room for improvement.
HSBC has allowed its Investing in Nature partners to scrutinize its investing and environmental policies and has agreed to set up joint committees to monitor progress. The bank also has hired KPMG to review its operations and set targets for lowering greenhouse gas emissions (through reduced utilities use and business travel), water consumption and waste production. Looking ahead, HSBC "will not automatically disengage from specific industry sectors," according to a company report on its behavior as a corporate citizen, but it will "err on the side of caution if we think the environmental risks of a transaction outweigh the benefits."
Earthwatch and the scientists it finances agree that HSBC's philanthropy, notably its donation of employees, has substantial impact. "This project, this type of research, wouldn't exist without the volunteers," said Peggy Rismiller, an environmental physiologist who studies threatened animal species on Kangaroo Island off southern Australia.
Like other scientists who rely on Earthwatch grants, she uses volunteers to gather data and do the grunt work that may become tedious for a researcher or a student. But to volunteers, it can be exhilarating. "Volunteers bring such enthusiasm; they'll go out and work and do the job until it's completed," Ms. Rismiller said.
Earthwatch sends out about 4,000 research volunteers each year, most of whom pay their own way or find sponsors for their trips. The organization has been setting up employee fellowships for about 10 years, for companies like Starbucks, Royal Dutch/Shell and Rio Tinto, a large mining company. But HSBC's program sends out more employees each year than all of the other employee fellowships combined. "The effectiveness of something like this is vastly increased when it's concentrated," said Steven D. Lydenberg, a principal at Domini Social Investments, which focuses exclusively on socially responsible investing. "That's really making a substantial commitment that more general volunteer programs, while they end up supporting employees, don't have."
HSBC employees who have made the trips cannot quite believe that this is one of their perks. "I had never met people like this before," said Diane Abbott, 36, a branch manager in Rochester who traveled to Brazil in March to help scientists monitor jaguars and conduct a tree census in the Pantanal wetlands. "I felt so far removed from the life I normally lead. Even after a couple of days, it felt like I hadn't sat at a desk, driven a car, run into a store in five years. It really did give me an entirely different perspective." 
Ms. Marshall said she was so taken with her archaeological dig in Spain that she had a hard time pulling herself away. "I'll tell you, I could have stayed there another five or six months," she said.
Darryl Szarpa, 49, who works in facilities administration in Buffalo, related similar feelings. He said his trip in August to Canyonlands National Park in Utah, where he trapped invertebrates and amphibians as part of an ecological survey, inspired thoughts of a second career once he retires.
 EMPLOYEES relished their work, even when the going was rough. "There were just levels of physical discomfort that I wasn't prepared for," said Emily Zahniser, 31, who traveled to central Ontario in July to study the effects of logging and development on ancient forests. Ms. Zahniser, who works as an executive assistant for HSBC in Manhattan and is an avid hiker and camper, battled mosquitoes and heavy rains while bushwalking through dense spruce and brush. "Had I known what I was getting into, I might have been hesitant, but now, having done it, there's no way I would have walked away," she said.
Ms. Zahniser applied for a forestry project because of her interest in Inwood Hill Park, which contains the remnants of primeval forest in Manhattan. For her community project, she would like to bring children to the park's ecology center and share what she has learned. Others have ideas for a mock archaeological dig, an Earth Day fair and plant-identification lessons for schools.
Peter Etu, 62, a senior programmer and technical analyst in Buffalo, returned in August from excavating a bison kill site in Jackson Hole, Wyo. Now he is thinking about his community project -- and is glad it's required. "I think if we didn't have that component, we'd do our fellowships and most of us would stop," Mr. Etu said. "This is an impetus to carry on."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lynne Marshall of HSBC, right, and another volunteer washed sediment for pieces of bone or flint in Spain.; Nick Maybury, Jackie Higgins and Diane Abbott, left to right, HSBC employees, at work on an Earthwatch environmental project in Brazil. (Mercelo Soubhia) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PLANT CONSERVATION (89%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (88%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (77%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); ARCHAEOLOGY (76%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (76%); WILDLIFE (75%); ANIMALS (75%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (74%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); RIVERS (73%); SCIENCE FUNDING (73%); CORPORATE GIVING (73%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (65%) ENVIRONMENT; PHILANTHROPY; VOLUNTEERS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; BANKS AND BANKING 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: EARTHWATCH (93%); WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (83%); CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL FOUNDATION (83%) EARTHWATCH (ORGN); WORLD WILDLIFE FEDERATION; BOTANIC GARDENS CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL 

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%)

PERSON: LE BEAU, CHRISTINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) BRAZIL (92%); SPAIN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ICELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



594 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: THE AGE OF DISSONANCE; 
Connoisseurship Runneth Over

BYLINE:  By BOB MORRIS 

 BODY:
The Whiskey Fest at the Marriott Marquis Hotel in Times Square was packed last Wednesday night with 1,000 guests, mostly men, who paid $85 to smell, taste, learn and discuss at length bourbon, Irish whiskey and Scotch. It was not for clubby social drinkers and macho booze swillers. If you like Scotch on the rocks, a tourist bar would have been the place for you.
 Real connoisseurs know that to nose and taste properly you have to add still water to your tulip-shaped glass so that the alcohol doesn't overwhelm you. They use words like "expression" to describe how a bottle from one year might differ from another bottled a year later, and adjectives like "peaty" to denote smokiness. They can tell, they claim, if the stream water used by a distillery had flowed over heather or granite. 
 The fifth floor of the Marriott was filled with 200 distillers, master blenders and the connoisseurs in tweeds who care about them, all trading information fiercely. 
"The only way you'd see this much excitement over Scotch back home in Scotland," said Gregor Cattanach, a kilt-wearing "brand ambassador" for Johnny Walker, looking a little besieged, "would be if you were offering Scotsmen free drinks."
That's Scotland. Here in the land of conspicuous consumption and perpetual self-improvement, we are competitive connoisseurs on a rampage. Not just about bourbon or Scotch but all alcohol, especially in the last five years, according to the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States. Even vodka, which is supposed to be about clarity and purity, and not much else, is getting heavily scrutinized. 
"Honestly, I can't tell the difference between brands," said Kevin Richards, president of Christiania Vodka, a Norwegian company with a regal heritage that's trying to muscle in on Grey Goose, Ketel One and Absolut. "But the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms says we have the right to call ours the world's smoothest vodka."
In an economy where niche markets multiply as rapidly as Internet spam, the capacity for new, competitive connoisseurship is endless. Is that bread artisanal and part of the slow-food movement? Is your television set plasma? Is it a Broad Picture by Loewe from Germany, with a 16.9-inch screen for ultimate movie viewing? Is your perfume custom-blended at a Creed store? Shirts bespoke and by Dunhill? Are the foxgloves from your cuttings garden heirloom? Do you subscribe, at $300 a year, to NB, a travel review "for people looking for better than four or five stars," according to a promoter. 
And please let's not even discuss cigars. 
As a culture, Americans are either suffering from obsessive-consumer disorder or have discovered a puritanical way of making leisure more purposeful. Maybe so many have-it-all Americans say they're overworked because they're making fun into second jobs. "Some connoisseurs are like people making a lot of money," said Colman Andrews, the editor in chief of Saveur, who calls experts "wine bozos" or "fruit bozos" on occasion. "They're so busy making it that they forget the point is to enjoy it."
Katie Brown, a cookbook author and television personality who specializes in simple American cooking, added: "Everything has become so precious. Olive oils have years on them now. Jelly labels announce they're made with river water and berries picked by forest nymphs. You go to buy eggs, and you have to read about how the hens are raised and fed and that they've laid the eggs in a teepee. Where will it end?"
Lew Bryson, the managing editor of Malt Advocate magazine, sponsor of the Whiskey Fest, said that what you can know about whiskey is endless -- until you've consumed enough to not know much of anything.
Halfway through the fest, he announced that a seminar on pot-still bourbon-making was about to begin in a room near the main hall. "Where is it exactly?" asked a well-dressed man in a green blazer. 
"Just outside on the right," Mr. Bryson said, adding, as the man staggered off, "If you can't find it, you're drunk."
And not on knowledge either.

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISTILLED LIQUORS (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); DISTILLERIES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); FIREARMS (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (50%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; SCOTCH (WHISKY) 

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (91%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (91%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (91%)

PERSON: MORRIS, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SCOTLAND (90%); GERMANY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



595 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Homeowners Drop the New and Go for Improved

BYLINE:  By JULIE FLAHERTY 

 BODY:
EVER since Joe Gardella retired from his engineering job five years ago, he and his wife, Cecile, have been thinking about selling their four-bedroom house in Milford, Mass. They recently checked out the modern condominium units near their home and even considered relocating to Fort Myers Beach, Fla. But they decided to stay put -- and to renovate.
 "We have such equity in this house that it would be foolish to try to sell it, because we would have to put that same amount of money into a much smaller condominium," said Mr. Gardella, 70. "We decided to make our existing home more modern, to keep up with all of our kids." 
 The Gardellas, who paid off their mortgage 10 years ago, chose to remodel their kitchen and dining room; the project, which took two months, cost about $40,000. A local contractor, True T. Davis Building and Remodeling, knocked down walls to make the two rooms flow together and added many extras, like recessed lighting, granite countertops, oak floors and a center island with new appliances. Aside from maintenance on the roof and heating system, the project was the first major renovation of the home since the couple bought it 27 years ago. 
Many homeowners around the country are undertaking similar projects, and for many economic reasons. While stock prices have declined sharply, home values have remained strong in many parts of the country. Interest rates are low, making it cheaper to finance a renovation. And, in contrast to financial assets, a home is an investment that can also be enjoyed.
Prices for most renovations have held steady. While some contractors felt only a dip in business after Sept. 11, others are still trying to recover, which means that they may be willing to get to your project sooner.
The National Association of the Remodeling Industry predicts that Americans will spend $163 billion on renovations this year, up 3.5 percent from 2001 and 8.7 percent from 2000. Much of the money is being spent by people who have moved recently. (This year alone, sales of existing homes are expected to reach 5.4 million units, breaking last year's record of 5.3 million.) 
Renovation demand is strong in high-priced metropolitan markets like Boston, San Francisco and New York. Trading up to a larger house has become prohibitively expensive for many people in such areas, so they are deciding to make changes to their current homes instead.
"The old days of selling a house and moving on up is not happening" for some people, said True Davis, the Gardellas' contractor. Budget-minded homeowners are expanding their living space by converting basements into playrooms or media rooms, he said. Homeowners who are less concerned about money have installed home theaters, wine cellars and even cigar bars with built-in humidors, others say.
Kitchen and bathroom makeovers, though, remain the most popular projects, experts say, mainly because styles are changing constantly. These renovations also have the highest rate of return. On average, homeowners can expect to recoup around 80 percent of their investments in major kitchen and bathroom remodeling, according to Remodeling magazine, though the figures vary around the country. There are also high rates of return for master bedroom, sunroom and family room additions, the magazine says.
Finding a good contractor helps to ensure the best rate of return, not to mention the best results. "You've heard you get what you pay for; that's very true in remodeling," said David Tyson, a designer and remodeling contractor in Charlotte, N.C.
The rule of thumb is to get at least three to five written estimates before signing a contract. But the best way to narrow the pool of candidates may be to ask neighbors. In fact, the remodeling association says that nearly three-quarters of renovation business comes from client referrals or word of mouth.
Mrs. Gardella, 69, a retired nurse, said she saw Mr. Davis's van outside a neighbor's house and asked her neighbor about his work. The neighbor was happy to show her how Mr. Davis had repaired water damage on the first floor.
"You want someone who asks where to place the Dumpster, whether the dog goes out or stays in, when the kids go to school," said Kevin McNulty, executive vice president of the association. "You want a professional."
Of course, you'll also want to set a realistic budget -- and stay within it, though some projects may give you sticker shock. A major kitchen renovation runs about $40,000, on average.
Renovation experts suggest that homeowners leave a 5 to 10 percent cushion for unexpected expenses. In some cases, they add, homeowners may also need to factor in the cost of temporarily renting an apartment or staying in a hotel, plus expenses for meals. Some contractors may provide portable mini-kitchen units that can be set up in a dining room or on a porch.
The Gardellas said they were able to make do without leaving their home. "We have a microwave set up and a toaster, and we have a Wendy's right up the corner," Mr. Gardella said. "And we've got our kids around who are fairly close, so we sponge off them." 
Most people, including the Gardellas, renovate their homes to make them more livable. Others renovate only to improve a resale value. But homeowners need to be careful not to over-improve, experts say. 
"If they are in a neighborhood of flat ranches, there is a limit to what people will pay for a flat ranch, no matter what is in it," said Leslie Brooks, the president of the Massachusetts Board of Real Estate Appraisers in Dedham. The only way to know is by researching prices -- by talking to local real estate agents or by searching the Internet.
WHAT is in style in home renovation, or what will be? Mr. McNulty of the remodeling industry group says he thinks that more homes will be computer-driven. "The cutting edge is in the intelligent appliances and connectivity of the home, in some of the more progressive areas of the country," he said. He also expects more renovation projects to reflect a "green attitude," using recycled materials and alternative energy systems.
Kitchens and bathrooms, in particular, are becoming more high-tech. Some new appliances have several functions, like the refrigerated range, which chills food at 40 degrees and can be programmed to warm it up or start cooking at a certain time. Some sinks can convert into dishwashers. And in bathrooms, showers are often now separate from the tub and might include steam or fiber optics that change the color of the water to suit the bather's mood.
"People are getting very big on the master-bedroom and master-bath concept, and every master bath has to have a whirlpool," said Ms. Brooks, the appraiser.
Of course, none of these appliances and devices are cheap. Whirlpool's new Polara Refrigerated Range has a suggested retail price range of $1,799 to $1,899. 
Color schemes are also changing, experts say, in part to balance all the new technology. Particularly popular are warm and cozy colors with yellow tones that give a sense of security, like terra cotta, or serene colors that convey relaxation, like soft blues and greens, said Melanie Wood, a design consultant at Mannington Mills of Salem, N.J., and the immediate past president of the Color Marketing Group, an industry association that tracks color trends. 
"We see more soothing colors that are easy to live with," she said. "We get enough of a jolt from the world outside."

How to Sort Out the Contractors

THINKING about remodeling? The National Association of the Remodeling Industry (www.remodeltoday.com) recommends interviewing several prospective contractors before hiring one. Here are some questions to ask:
How many similar projects have you completed in the last 12 months?
What percentage of your work comes from repeat business or referrals?
Do you have a list of references (at least three) for similar projects you have completed?
Are the company's employees certified by a trade group like the remodeling industry association?
Does your company carry workers' compensation and liability insurance? Are copies of the insurance certificates available? 
Is the company a full-service or specialty firm? (Homeowners who are planning a small project, say, replacing the bathroom plumbing, may be better off hiring a specialty plumbing firm or a bathroom remodeler.)
Is a permit needed for this project? (A qualified remodeling contractor will know the permit process and ensure that all permits have been received before starting work.)
Can you provide a list of your suppliers? (Suppliers can also help you learn more about the contractor's credit history.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cecile and Joe Gardella, top, of Milford, Mass., decided to renovate recently. True Davis, below left, a contractor, remodeled the kitchen and dining room for $40,000. (Photographs by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (78%); BUDGETS (75%); EXISTING HOME SALES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); DRINKING PLACES (60%) HOME REPAIRS AND IMPROVEMENTS; HOUSING 

PERSON: FLAHERTY, JULIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT MYERS, FL, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



596 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2641 words

HEADLINE: Fading Into History 

BYLINE:  By ALLEN SALKIN 

 BODY:
LINDA Macfarlane, nee Feuer, stood on East Houston Street and looked stunned as she peered south at the sleek bistros and boutiques lining Orchard Street. "It's all gone," she whispered to her husband as she clutched his arm. "What happened?"
 Ms. Macfarlane, 59, left New York more than 25 years ago. Now, on a recent visit to the city, she wanted to show her husband the children's clothing store where she had worked "selling shmattes" as a teenager. But the store, whose name she cannot remember, is gone, as are most of the landmarks and talismans in the neighborhood that was for generations the traditional symbol of the American Jewish experience: the fabric merchants, the ethnic food sellers, the children's furniture stores. 
 "I wanted to smell it, follow my nose, the food, the places," Ms. Macfarlane said wistfully, brushing her blond hair back from her eyes. "But nothing smells the same anymore. The people, everything's gone. The whole ghetto is gone." 
Last month, Ratner's Delicatessen on Delancey Street sold its last onion roll and closed after 97 years. Two years ago, the owners of Schapiro's Kosher Winery on Rivington Street rolled their barrels out of the basement and called it quits, selling the building for $2.3 million. Two weeks ago, H&M Skullcap moved from its home on Hester Street, where it had been for half a century, to 13th Avenue in Borough Park, Brooklyn, a thriving Jewish business thoroughfare. "The Chinese don't want to buy yarmulkes," said Mendel Fefer, a salesman. Some of the remaining small synagogues have so few members that they must import teenagers from Williamsburg, Brooklyn, to help make the minyan of 10 required for daily prayers.
The long-contracting Jewish Lower East Side, the primal homeland for American immigrant Jews, has lost so much of its cultural texture and so many of its living touchstones that it may be time finally to pronounce it dead. Yet paradoxically, even as the traditional neighborhood vanishes, interest in its place in Jewish heritage is exploding, evidenced by the packs of competing walking tours, a spate of new books about its history and increased attendance at the Lower East Side Tenement Museum. 
At its peak, around 1910, the square-mile area bounded by East Third Street, the Bowery, Catherine Street and the East River was home to 373,057 people, a great majority of whom were Eastern European Jews. In the 2000 census, the entire population was only 91,704, nearly half of whom were of Asian descent. Only 17,200 were whites of non-Hispanic descent. 
Despite its changing ethnic and religious makeup, the Lower East Side is hardly suffering economically. Shiny new shops, selling everything from rubber miniskirts to $10 margaritas, have taken over storefronts and brightened blocks that had been abandoned for decades. Clinton Street has become a gourmet destination and Orchard Street a high-fashion strand. The long-shuttered Sunshine Theater on East Houston Street, once a Yiddish vaudeville house, is now a cinema. Moviegoers can fortify themselves with refreshments from the venerable Yonah Schimmel Knishes next door.
Grand Street between Allen and Chrystie Streets bustles with Chinese shops selling vegetables and seafood. Last month, Vanity Fair magazine published a map showing local outposts of trendiness.
Despite such shifts, for countless American Jews like Ms. Macfarlane, the area has remained almost a holy land in memory, an old country to return to. The real old country -- the cities, towns and shtetls of Europe -- has long since disappeared in clouds of war and genocide. But even as recently as a few years ago, a person walking the streets of the Lower East Side could sense the collective memory of a tangible past, helped along by the few Jewish businesses that survived.
Two years ago, the area was designated a state and national historic district. But such a designation does not freeze a neighborhood's appearance and retard change the way landmark designation does.
As a result, what is being lost now are the last images that make it possible to conjure the fantasy of the old days. And a few tenements where Jews once lived, a couple of silver candlestick sellers, Russ & Daughters smoked-fish emporium and Streit's matzo factory are not enough to do the trick for people like Ms. Macfarlane or any of the other mystified visitors seen daily on Orchard Street. To make the dream live, they seem to need the taste of kosher corned beef (Katz's Delicatessen is not kosher), the reek of pickles in brine and the Yiddish-inflected voices of haggling merchants. 
They crave the specters of a vanished culture, said Joyce Mendelsohn, who teaches New York City history at the New School and leads walking tours based on her guidebook, "The Lower East Side Remembered and Revisited" (Lower East Side Press, 2001). "People got upset when Ratner's closed," she said. "They feel an emotional, nostalgic tie to the neighborhood, which is expressed in food in a large way. They are running for the bialys, for the pickles. It's like the heart of the Jewish experience they're hoping to go back to in some way."

Jewish or Not Jewish?
Some people say it is premature to announce the death of the Lower East Side as a Jewish enclave. They point to the recent restoration of a century-old mikvah (ritual bath) on East Broadway, the 270 children who attend local yeshivas and the small synagogues that still dot the streets. Kosher food is still available; Kossar's Bialys on Grand Street sells 500 dozen bialys a day, 30 percent of them to retail customers and the rest to stores like Zabar's.
William Rapfogel, executive director of the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty, says his organization's statistics show that the number of Lower East Side Jews has not changed much over the past decade.
"It may not be as religious, but it's still Jewish," said Debra Engelmeyer, 32, whose family bought Kossar's from the company's founding family four years ago.
But the district is feeling the effects of both an aging population and real estate shifts that have transformed much of the city. Cooperative Village, for example, a 4,500-apartment complex south of the Williamsburg Bridge built as housing for union members, was for decades heavily Orthodox Jewish. Starting in 1997, when restrictions on the selling price of apartments were lifted, many residents began taking generous profits and leaving. A fourth of the units have been sold. The management of the complex says young Orthodox families are moving in, drawn by the opportunity to knock down walls and create large apartments to house large families. But real estate brokers who have handled sales at Cooperative Village say the new buyers represent many different ethnicities.
Almost every night, Rabbi Schmuel Spiegel struggles to gather a minyan at the First Roumanian-American Congregation on Rivington Street. One recent evening, just before services were to start, Rabbi Spiegel had only five men in his sanctuary. Hurrying out the door, he went to Orchard Street.
"You coming to shul?" he asked Sam Weiss, who sat outside his men's shop.
"There's no one else to watch the store," Mr. Weiss replied.
The rabbi bounded into Altman's Luggage. "You're on your minyan roundup?" asked Dan Bettinger, the shopkeeper. But he couldn't make it, either.
Rabbi Spiegel tried Dolce Vita Shoes, and even stuck his head into a car parked on Rivington Street because the driver was wearing a yarmulke. Ten minutes later, he only had eight men, including a tourist from San Diego named Al Krinick who had shown up because he had heard "they were still davening" in the synagogue where his grandfather had prayed more than half a century before. A phone call to Katz Furniture on Essex Street yielded a father-and-son pair. Mission accomplished. 
"Twenty years ago, you would have said there will never be a minyan there in 20 years," Rabbi Spiegel said later. "But we're still here. Ten years from now, I can't say."

Mythmaking and the Museum
While the Lower East Side may not be what it was, in fact, the neighborhood as remembered, idealized and enshrined in popular culture probably never existed. 
The story of life in those precincts is achingly familiar: immigrants jammed into hellish tenements, entire families laboring long hours for meager wages in equally hellish sweatshops, rampant and devastating disease. Most Jewish immigrants wanted nothing more than to get out.
"If it were still a poor neighborhood of Jews selling cheap clothes and other things and struggling to survive, it wouldn't be iconic, it would be a problem," said Hasia R. Diner, a professor of American Jewish history at New York University and the author of "Lower East Side Memories: A Jewish Place in America" (Princeton University Press, 2000), a work exploring why the neighborhood has been remembered fondly over the years. "It's only with the moving on, with the passage of time, that that sort of stuff can be viewed as sweet and lovely."
After World War II, and gaining urgency in the 1960's and 1970's with books like Irving Howe's epic "World of Our Fathers," the Lower East Side became an ever more powerful symbol of the bygone life of the shtetl, where, as Ms. Diner put it, "families got along, neighbors took care of each other and all the food tasted better." 
That impulse is turning the Jewish Lower East Side into a museum piece. Walking-tour guides point to where things used to be, not where they are. The Forward building, home until 1974 of the Yiddish-language newspaper that in the 1920's sold 250,000 copies a day, was converted into expensive loft apartments. The Forsyth Street Synagogue is a Spanish-language Seventh-day Adventist Church. The Garden Cafeteria, where Isaac Bashevis Singer set his short story "The Cabalist of East Broadway," is a Chinese restaurant.
"There is more of a future for tourism than there is for Judaism," said Philip Schoenberg, who has led Jewish Lower East Side Talk and Walk tours since 1992. "I have people who go on my tours, and all I'm saying is: 'This was once a kosher butcher shop. This was this. This was once that.' " 
In addition to the tours conducted by Mr. Schoenberg and Ms. Mendelsohn of the New School, there are others led by the Tenement Museum (every weekend) and Big Onion Walking Tours (which runs a Jewish Lower East Side tour monthly). Ms. Mendelsohn, who books some of her tours through the 92nd Street Y, has been hired by the Lower East Side Conservancy to train docents for tours of historic Lower East Side synagogues. In the last year, more than 12,000 people have taken these tours.
As flesh-and-blood Jews leave, mythmaking becomes ever more powerful.
In 2000, the patch of Orchard Street in front of the Tenement Museum was torn up and replaced by perfectly even rows of unchipped black cobblestone, to give a period feel. The museum, which opened in 1988, takes visitors from around the world into tiny, historically restored apartments at 97 Orchard Street, where 7,000 people lived between 1863 and the 1930's. Annual attendance has soared, from 18,000 in 1992 to 82,000 in the fiscal year ending June 30.
Since 1986, a $10 million restoration has been under way at the Eldridge Street Synagogue. These days, the spectacular stained-glass window on the facade is clear enough for sunlight to flow into the 115-year-old sanctuary. But this space, where 1,000 people once worshiped on the High Holy Days, still needs work. Saturday morning services are held in a small basement room.

Changes, Even in Little Shtetl
If a Jewish equivalent to Little Italy remains in Manhattan -- Little Shtetl, say -- it is probably the two-block stretch of Essex Street between East Broadway and Grand Street, where half a dozen stores carry signs with Hebrew lettering. Yet even here, tides of change are apparent.
At No. 7, an 11-story luxury condominium is rising over neighboring tenements. The sign promises "yards, roof terraces, fireplaces, skyline views -- 1,584 to 3,650 square feet from $825,000." At No. 11 Essex sits the building that until a year ago housed A1, a store that sold Judaica.
Past a Chinese-run store selling cellphones and car parts, at No. 13, is Motty Blumenthal's Judaica shop, named Z & A Kol Torah by his parents, Zelig and Aliza, who opened it 50 years ago. "As long as people come here, I'll stay," Mr. Blumenthal said. "It'll last at least another 5 or 10 years."
At No. 17, next door to Chinese North Dumpling, is Essex Electronics. For many of the store's 35 years, the area was a major destination for Israeli tourists seeking discounted stereo equipment. "There used to be 20 shops here," said Chaim Loeb, the manager. "Now there are three or four, but some people still come." 
Above another storefront at No. 17 is a friendly ghost: the sign Ha-attikos Judaica. The shop closed years ago, neighbors say, and the space is now an apartment. 
At No. 19 is Weinfeld Skull Caps, which has been at the same location for 70 years. Recent customers included Martin and Goldie Sosnick, a San Francisco couple who were ordering 240 black suede yarmulkes for their daughter's wedding. "It's nice to come to where the roots are from," Ms. Sosnick said. But, she added, "it was disappointing to come here wanting to eat in a kosher restaurant, and there wasn't one here."
Soon Weinfeld's will be gone, too; one of the owners said he planned to move the business to Brooklyn within the year, "to be in a Jewish neighborhood."
No. 21 houses T & H Insurance, which has a Chinese-lettered sign, and, until two months ago, Israel Wholesale Import, a Judaica shop, which jumped to 23 Essex, displacing a Chinese printer. Also at No. 23 is Hollywood Video, which sells Chinese-language videos; the sign identifies the address as "23 Exsses St." And so it goes.
Qun Lei, a clerk at Shun Da Sign, a store at 25 Essex Street that manufactures many of the Chinese-language signs that are installed when the Hebrew signs come down, sees the block's future more clearly than its past. "I think it's a Chinese neighborhood," said Ms. Lei, 33, who emigrated from China a year ago and calls herself Maggie."
Ms. Lei hopes to save enough money so she and her family can leave the neighborhood, unconsciously following the path trod by Jews of nearly a century ago. "Uptown Manhattan is good," she said.

Looking at a Cloudy Future
Not every business that might speak to the real or imagined past is gone.
Streit's matzo bakery still makes unleavened bread for a national and international market at the Rivington Street address where the company was founded in 1925.
Russ & Daughters, the smoked-fish and caviar store, occupies the same white-tiled East Houston Street shop where it has been since 1914. Yonah Schimmel Knishes has survived, and Guss's Pickles has found a new lease on life near the Tenement Museum. The owners of Noah's Ark, a kosher restaurant in Teaneck, N.J., will open a branch on Grand Street by year's end.
Perhaps not surprisingly, one of the few merchants who has no intention of moving is the area's last gravestone seller. "We own the building here, and people know where we are," said Murray Silver, the 60-year-old owner of Silver Monuments on Stanton Street, a business dating from the late 30's.
Still, gravestone sellers aside, what kind of real future does the Jewish Lower East Side face? Is there enough left to make Jews feel they can find a link to a Jewish past? Or has too much vanished?
"You can find it at the Lower East Side Tenement Museum, you can find it in walking tours," said Samuel Norich, general manager of the Forward Association, which publishes weekly Jewish newspapers in Yiddish, Russian and English from its home on East 33rd Street. "There are enough remnants of Jewish life on the Lower East Side and life going on now that you can build on and conjure up what used to be there.
"In words at least."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The new Lower East Side (inset, Essex Street) is worlds apart from the place enshrined in Jewish heritage. (Above, "Lower East Side" 1900 , collection of Lisa Ades, Jewish Museum; inset, James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Schapiro's Kosher Winery sold its building and left two years ago.; Most evenings, Rabbi Schmuel Spiegel roams the streets outside the First Roumanian-American Congregation in search of a minyan, the 10 men required for daily prayers. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 14) Chart: "Changing Face'The Lower East Side by race and national ancestry. 1910TOTAL POPULATION: 373,057FOREIGN BORN: 71.8%EASTERN EUROPE (BORN): 57.9%EASTERN EUROPE (ANCESTRY)*: 79.9%RACEWHITE: 99.9%OTHER: 0.1% 2000TOTAL POPULATION: 91,704FOREIGN BORN: 48.5%EASTERN EUROPE (BORN): 1.0%EASTERN EUROPE (ANCESTRY)*: 4.3%RACEWHITE: 28.8%BLACK: 8.1%ASIAN: 46.2%OTHER: 17.0%HISPANIC (May be of any race): 26.3% *Claiming to be first or second generation.(Source: Susan Weber, Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. 14) Map of New York state highlighting the Lower East Side. (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); RELIGION (74%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (71%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (64%); TRENDS (62%); CENSUS (62%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (61%); FURNITURE STORES (54%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; JEWS 

ORGANIZATION: LOWER EAST SIDE TENEMENT MUSEUM (NYC) 

PERSON: SALKIN, ALLEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); ROMANIA (76%) NEW YORK CITY; LOWER EAST SIDE (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



597 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: NOTICED; 
In Hollywood, Rudeness to Make an Oscar Blink

BYLINE:  By HILARY DE VRIES 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
IT started as a typical industry evening: a small but select dinner given by Sony Pictures at the Telluride Film Festival in Colorado this year. Invitations went out to a handful of high-profile guests, including Salman Rushdie and Peter O'Toole. Acceptances came in, and a table was reserved at a local restaurant.
 So far so good. But when one agent-turned-manager arrived more than an hour late with an entourage (including uninvited guests) and discovered that the only remaining spaces at the table were next to a clutch of junior publicists, he refused to join the party and demanded a private table. At the end of his meal, he declined to pay his bill, which totaled several hundred dollars, and instead sent it to the Sony executives across the room. 
 "It was unbelievably arrogant," said one of the publicists present. "Even by Hollywood's normal standards for rudeness, it was above and beyond. The studio executives were shaking their heads." 
Far from being an isolated occurrence, displays of selfishly hostile behavior are increasingly common in Hollywood, and increasingly by small fry. Once the sole province of box-office stars and a handful of well-known producers and agents, divalike behavior has filtered down -- sometimes way down -- the chain of command. It is now the reflexive stance of personal assistants, who are obsequious to their bosses but aggressively disdainful toward others; of hairstylists to the stars, who show up an hour late for appointments with regular clients; and of unemployed screenwriters, who cancel dinner plans with old friends because they are suddenly "busy."
"Hollywood has serious entitlement issues these days," said Terry Press, the marketing chief at DreamWorks. "There are so many people now who have that attitude of 'Don't you know who I am?' It's not just celebrities anymore, but everyone -- even the people who service celebrities are arrogant and rude."
Boundless egotism has long characterized those drawn to the film industry, and an abrasive style, not to say boorishness, has been typical of its powerful figures since Louis B. Mayer's day. But insiders say the tendency to blow off anyone not part of your own private movie has gotten worse, and it's more widespread. From showing up late to business meetings or not at all for social engagements, to not returning calls, Hollywood etiquette is all about reminding others that you are more important than they are. The practice of canceling a lunch or a dinner date when a better invitation comes along is so common it is known as B.B.D., for Bigger Better Dealing.
Dawn DaLuise, a Hollywood facialist whose clients include Sarah Michelle Gellar and Christina Ricci, said the arrogance has reached children's birthday parties. Recalling a party she gave for her 11-year-old daughter earlier this year, Ms. DaLuise said, "We sent 23 invitations for a catered party and we didn't get a single response." After follow-up phone calls to the parents elicited 17 acceptances, "we still had only 11 people actually show up," she said, adding, "It's the trickle-down effect of Hollywood rudeness."
THE producer Suzanne Todd, whose credits include the "Austin Powers" films and "Memento," explained that "where you fall in the food chain determines how rude you can be and to whom."
"It all depends on who your agent is, where your production deal is, how your movie opened," she went on. "That determines who you can cancel on and who can cancel on you, who you can have attitude with and who can give you attitude."
Longtimers said that changes in the film and television industries over the last decade have accelerated the level of hostility and the decline in civility. They cited cutbacks in production, increased competition from abroad and the raging cult of celebrity.
"This is a town that used to make 120 pictures a year and now makes 50 or 60, so the pressure is really on," said Robert Evans, who headed Paramount Pictures from the mid-1960's to the mid-70's and was the subject of the documentary "The Kid Stays in the Picture" this year. "People act out of fear, because everyone is so hungry for a deal now. There's no etiquette in Hollywood because there is no peace of mind."
Lynda Obst, a producer whose latest film, the thriller "Abandon," opened on Friday, said the business has changed significantly in the past decade. "People used to be more reckless and more collegial," Ms. Obst said. "But the stakes got too high and the attrition rate got too steep, and you wind up rooting for each other's failures now."
The variety of hostility in Hollywood is often not like it is elsewhere, insiders say. It is passive-aggressive behavior, the donning of a mask of amiability that conceals raw antagonism toward one's competitors, even one's friends.
"Although Hollywood is very competitive, it is not confrontational," said Merle Ginsberg, the entertainment editor of W magazine, who is based in Los Angeles. "It's all about your Prozac and your shrink and your yoga and you're 'happy,' and that behavior can easily be misinterpreted."
One Hollywood manager routinely asserts his position while assessing another's place in the pecking order by asking where the other person lives. "It's not about where you live," a screenwriter who knows him said. "It's about whether you are a winner or a loser this week." 
Catherine Olim, a managing director of PMK/HBH, Hollywood's top publicity agency, remembers receiving "a real wake-up call" when she gave a catered party for her parents shortly after moving to Los Angeles a few years ago. Of her invited guests, "many didn't respond at all," Ms. Olim said, and of those who did accept, "many of them never showed."
To outsiders, the industry's laid-back amiability can be misleading. "There is a very particular game that's played in Los Angeles, but it is an insider's game, and you have to know how to read the signals," said Carol Wolper, a screenwriter and the author of two novels about Hollywood, including "The Cigarette Girl." "There is still a politeness code that exists, but that is not the same thing as actually being nice."
She cites the practice of "spinning your day" -- putting on a happy face no matter how badly work went. In New York you can say you had a bad day, "but in L.A. you better look good and sound happy when you're sipping your cosmopolitan at Ago," Ms. Wolper said. "Even if you're an out-of-work actress or writer, you've got to spin your day to show that you have velocity, that you're a success."
Hollywood's penchant for passive-aggressiveness, insiders say, stems from its being a one-industry town where everyone knows everyone else, coupled with the rampant insecurity inherent in a business where fortunes rise and fall on overnight Nielsen ratings and weekend box-office numbers.
"Hollywood attracts a certain kind of person who is very insecure but also very controlling as a result," said Jennifer Klein, a film producer who is also a popular hostess. She cited unreturned phone calls, lateness and a disregard of R.S.V.P.'s as rampant passive-aggressive acts. "It's all about controlling others," she said.
Linda Kairys, a psychotherapist whose patients include many in the film world, attributes the passive-aggressiveness to the transient nature of the entertainment industry as well as the narcissistic personalities it attracts.
"In Hollywood there is an unwritten social code that everyone is so laid back, but underneath that facade is a huge undercurrent of competitiveness," said Ms. Kairys, a cognitive therapist. "People here are so narcissistic, which means they behave with a great deal of grandiosity, but it's coming from a sense of not feeling valued, so there's lots of jealousy, fear and anger. People are so afraid of rejection that they don't act directly, saying what they really mean, but instead act in very self-protective ways that create incredible amounts of hostility."
The producer Sean Daniel, whose films include "The Scorpion King" and "Down to Earth," said Hollywood today hews to a corporate sensibility that is no different from that of any other industry. "It's a driven, organized, hard-working town," Mr. Daniels said. "There are very few lotus-eaters here anymore."
Lotus-eaters may be in short supply, but celebrities have never been more numerous. Not only has the cult of celebrity become the dominant influence in the entertainment industry, but there is now what can be called the phenomenon of the posse -- ever-larger support staffs for stars who routinely earn $20 million a film. Posses include personal assistants, publicists, managers, trainers, stylists and nutritionists who cater to a star's every need. 
And many of the posse members in turn expect others to cater to their needs, pushing the perquisites of celebrity downward. As Ms. Obst observed, "Everyone in L.A. has an attitude now -- even the valets who park your car have attitude -- because it's all based on celebrity."
But a small group of Hollywood power brokers are starting to resist the spread of divatude.
Ms. Todd, the "Austin Powers" producer, whose sister Jennifer is her partner in making movies and also in giving highly sought-after parties, has thrown down what amounts to a gauntlet.
"We do a lot of parties, and I've made it clear that the rudest thing you can do is not to R.S.V.P.," Ms. Todd said. "Tell me you can't make it. That's fine. But if you don't R.S.V.P. or you don't show, you are off my list for good."
It's a policy that just might change some behavior. At least until Austin Powers's mojo wears down, and the Todd sisters lose a bit of their clout.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ALTMAN'S PROPHECY -- Tim Robbins and Dina Merrill in the 1992 film "The Player," Robert Altman's tale of Hollywood's nastiness. These days, the boorishness is so bad that even some of the natives blanch. (Lorey Sebastian/Fine Line Features)(pg. 7) Drawings (Sean Kelly)(pg. 1); (Sean Kelly)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); WRITERS (50%) MOTION PICTURES; LABOR; CUSTOMS, ETIQUETTE AND MANNERS 

PERSON: DE VRIES, HILARY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



598 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Shopping for Bond Gains, Overseas

BYLINE:  By GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
FOR investors who believe that the rally in domestic bonds is ending, there may be an overseas alternative.
 Many bond managers are recommending that investors shift a portion of their fixed-income holdings into foreign bonds -- a switch that most people can accomplish through global bond funds. But because foreign bonds involve currency risk, they are not favored by all financial advisers. 
 The international bond funds tracked by Morningstar Inc. have turned in the second-best performance in the entire fixed-income sector this year through Thursday, returning 6.92 percent, behind only funds that hold long-term United States government bonds, at 8.39 percent. By contrast, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 22.51 percent. 
Foreign bonds, particularly those in Europe, may have more room for a rally than their domestic counterparts. Last week, the 10-year United States Treasury note yielded 4.11 percent, compared with 4.59 percent for 10-year German government notes. The yields on euro-denominated bonds are likely to drop in the months ahead, some analysts say, because European economies have lagged behind that of the United States. Falling yields would mean rising prices, because bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.
"Last year, the Fed was aggressively lowering returns so that you got capital gains and the interest" on investments in American bonds, said Stefan D. Abrams, chief investment officer for asset allocation at the New York office of the Trust Company of the West.
"The European Central bank has lagged badly in cutting interest rates," he said. "They will have to catch up because they need to jump-start their economies." 
Mr. Abrams said he believes that the European bank will cut rates, setting off a rally in European bond markets. An interest rate cut could also mean a strengthening of the euro, which has already gained 11 percent against the dollar over the last year, he added.
He cautioned, however, that investors should expect relatively modest returns and should view investments in foreign bond funds primarily as a way to diversify their fixed-income holdings. "This is not some dot-com stock from 1998 that is going up 100 times the day it comes public," he said. "This is merely a way of improving upon your fixed-income funds."
Many international bond funds have had a terrific year so far. The T. Rowe Price International Bond fund has risen 11.6 percent through Thursday, outperforming the Lehman Brothers aggregate bond index by 5.9 percentage points, according to Morningstar. The fund invests primarily in government and corporate debt in Europe and Japan. So far, the fund, which has a minimum initial investment of $2,500, has benefited not only from higher yields on foreign debt but also from the appreciation of the euro.
The T. Rowe Price fund does not hedge currency risk, and while it has benefited from the euro's strength recently, its performance suffered during the years when the dollar was strong. The fund's annualized three-year return through Thursday was only 0.78 percent and its five-year annualized return was 1.79 percent. 
CHRISTOPHER ROTHERY, a portfolio manager of the T. Rowe Price fund, acknowledged that the fund's assets dropped to about $670 million by late 2000 from $1 billion at the end of 1995. As of last month, however, the fund had rebounded to $1 billion, because of both new money and strong performance this year.
By contrast, a fund that uses currency hedging, BlackRock International Bond, had a return of just 4.1 percent this year through Thursday, well behind the T. Rowe Price fund.
But over the longer term, the BlackRock fund, which has a minimum investment of $5,000, has outperformed the T. Rowe Price portfolio. It posted a three-year annualized return of 7.83 percent and a five-year return of 7.19 percent. By hedging, the fund avoided the impact of the strong dollar in the late 1990's. 
Deciding whether to hedge currency risk is difficult, so some advisers prefer to avoid global bond funds entirely. Philip Cook, of Cook & Associates, a certified financial planner in Torrance, Calif., said he thinks that "the risk is greater than the reward."
However, Jim Keene, a money manager at Bingham, Osborn & Scarborough, a wealth management firm in San Francisco, has used international bond funds to diversify investors' portfolios for the last six or seven years. Mr. Keene, whose firm manages $600 million, said that in light of the plunge in American equity markets this year, many international bond funds have been a great investment. "We have increased our exposure a bit this year," he said. 
He likes unhedged funds like the T. Rowe Price fund, but he recognizes that some investors want to avoid currency risk in fixed-income investing. If those investors are going to take on risk, he said, "they would rather that it be on the equity side."
But, he said, "we feel it is worth it to take that risk with a small percentage -- about 3 percent or 4 percent of an individual's portfolio." This year, he added, "it was our best-performing asset class." 
Even in this bull market for bond funds, some have stumbled. AIM Global Income, for example, was down 3.13 percent through Thursday. Bridget B. Hughes, a senior analyst at Morningstar who follows international funds, said the fund's expense ratio was high, at 1.75 percent, compared with a category average of 1.37 percent. (The T. Rowe Price fund has expenses of 0.95 percent, and the BlackRock fund's are 1.22 percent.) 
For the most part, though, AIM was hurt this year by its American corporate and high-yield bond holdings, she said. Investors looking for global diversification should make sure that the percentage of domestic investments in a particular global fund is relatively small, Ms. Hughes added. She also said that investors seeking overseas diversification should look for unhedged funds. This will help insulate their overall portfolios from fluctuations in the value of the dollar.
FOR these reasons, she prefers the T. Rowe Price fund, even though its longer-term performance has not matched that of hedged competitors like BlackRock. (BlackRock, she said, has also held more United States Treasuries and corporate bonds.)
"People who like the idea of international fixed income and want some strong diversification don't need any U.S. exposure in their global bond fund," Ms. Hughes said. "But when the U.S. is doing well, these kinds of funds will suffer in large part because of the currencies."
A number of experts, including Jim O'Neill, head of global economic research at Goldman, Sachs, say they believe that the euro will continue to strengthen against the dollar, which would be a boon for unhedged global bond funds. The dollar "remains on a downward trend," he said.
"The underlying current account deficit is slowly eroding the dollar's ability to stay stable," he added. "Unless the U.S. economy recovers sharply, it will be increasingly difficult for the U.S. to attract that high-quality investment that can offset the deficit." 
International bond funds are not particularly tax-efficient. Still, last year, many investors in the stock market would have been grateful to show gains that generated any taxable income at all.
Some wealthy investors may prefer to cherry-pick bonds from particular countries. But those decisions can be difficult, and the minimum purchase price of individual securities may be $100,000. That is why many financial advisers suggest that most people venture into international fixed-income investing through a diversified mutual fund.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christopher Rothery, co-manager of the T. Rowe Price International Bond fund, says it is attracting new money. Chart: "Global Opportunities"The bond rally in the United States may be nearing its end, but some financial advisers suggest that international bond funds may help preserve high returns on investments. Following are some top-performing mutual funds with a minimum initial investment of $2,500 or less. TOP INTERNATIONAL BOND FUNDSOppenheimer International Bond AANNUALIZED RETURNS*1-Year: 14.55%5-Year: 4.38%ASSETS (in millions): $325 Templeton Global BondANNUALIZED RETURNS*1-Year: 11.615-Year: 3.44ASSETS (in millions): 278 MainStay Global High Yield AANNUALIZED RETURNS*1-Year: 10.085-Year: N.A.ASSETS (in millions): 34 American Century International BondANNUALIZED RETURNS*1-Year: 9.995-Year: 3.20ASSETS (in millions): 243 Federated International Bond AANNUALIZED RETURNS*1-Year: 8.135-Year: 1.51ASSETS (in millions): 49 T. Rowe Price Int'l Bond AANNUALIZED RETURNS*1-Year: 7.585-Year: 1.79ASSETS (in millions): 926 Putnam Global Governmental Income AANNUALIZED RETURNS*1-Year: 7.435-Year: 3.45ASSETS (in millions): 176 Scudder Global Bond SANNUALIZED RETURNS*1-Year: 7.355-Year: 5.71ASSETS (in millions): 186 Munder Int'l Bond KANNUALIZED RETURNS*1-Year: 7.045-Year: 2.31ASSETS (in millions): 39 MainStay Int'l Bond AANNUALIZED RETURNS*1-Year: 7.045-Year: 0.93ASSETS (in millions): 21 *Through Thursday (Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EURO (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (83%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); TRUST CO OF THE WEST (66%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); T ROWE PRICE INTERNATIONAL INC (51%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



599 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1965 words

HEADLINE: Partying Like It's 1999 

BYLINE:  By KATHERINE ROSMAN 

 BODY:
IT was another exhausting night for David Dobkin. Last Wednesday, on the dance floor at Suite 16 in Chelsea, Mr. Dobkin, 23, twirled and dipped various pretty young things with the panache of a man who had charmed women on many previous evenings on many similar dance floors. He was not quite sweating. Rather, he glowed. 
 Ready for a refreshment, he sidled up to the bar next to Neil Fried, also 23, and invited him to join him for a few days in Las Vegas. "Why not?" Mr. Dobkin cajoled excitedly. "I've got the cash." The expression on Mr. Fried's face was troubled. Jetting off to Las Vegas was not so easy; he had a job as an investment banker at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein. 
 Mr. Dobkin, on the other hand, did not. Early last month, he was laid off by the same boutique firm when it dissolved his entire department. But the disappearance of a paycheck has not hindered his social life. "My severance is very good," he said. "I'll probably make more money this year than a lot of people who haven't been laid off." 
Mr. Dobkin is a member of the city's latest downtown subculture, a small, but -- if you happen to be at nightclubs like Lotus, Suite 16 and Bungalow 8 at 3 in the morning -- flamboyant segment of today's unemployed. Laid off in droves by Wall Street in the last 18 months, they are young, mostly single and childless. Coasting on savings and generous severance packages, they use their unemployment checks as pocket change, and pointedly don't look for jobs.
Like the dot-com castoffs who hit the streets two years ago, this group is enjoying its recent liberation from 18-hour work days by staying out late, night after night. And they have an added incentive to slack off: there are no jobs to be had.
Brad Gishen, 30, who lost his investment banking job in February, goes out to clubs and restaurants almost every night, while pouring much of his severance package and savings into the Concept Management Group, which he founded to promote unknown visual artists and fashion designers. "The last thing I wanted to do in February was look for another job, when every other bank was laying people off," he said. 
Jeff Valenty, 32, left his job as a managing director of a leading investment firm during a restructuring one and a half years ago. Since then, he has traveled to Southeast Asia, South America and Europe. "I worked hard for over nine years," he said. "I ran the Wall Street treadmill and didn't have the opportunities to do any of the things I've been able to do." He says he goes out four or five nights a week.
Employment in the securities industry in New York City plummeted by 22,900 jobs in the 13-month period ending in September, according to the New York State Department of Labor. The figure does not reflect more recent announcements, like Wednesday's disclosure by J. P. Morgan that it plans to eliminate 2,000 more investment banking jobs. Though the Labor Department does not tally unemployment by age, conventional wisdom on Wall Street suggests that a vast majority of those laid off are under 40.
Some laid-off Wall Streeters have even adopted a name for themselves: the 405 Club, a reference to an evening last year when a group of unemployed investment bankers jestingly tried to pay an $800 dinner bill at Craft, in the Flatiron district, by signing over their $405 unemployment checks -- the maximum benefit offered by the Labor Department. 
Severance packages for investment bankers, the values of which are influenced by seniority and education, usually consist of about three to six months' paid salary, plus a portion of the bonus the employee would have gotten at the year's end, experts say. In the case of a junior-level banker who missed out on the truly golden year, from 1999 to 2000, the package could still approach $50,000. For others -- especially if they signed employment contracts during the boom, which guaranteed their salaries for years -- a mid-level banker could leave with a $600,000 exit package.
"I've never seen anybody not walk out without a smile on their face," said one banker who yearns to be laid off. "Once they are over the shock, they are some of the happiest people you've ever seen. They dance out of the building."
Which is why, judging by those who observe the nocturnal habits of the young, not all of them are staying home drowning their sorrows in Haagen-Dazs and videos. Far from it. "We have never been busier," said David Rabin, an owner of Lotus, the meatpacking district hot spot. "There is no question that there is a lot of leftover money being spent on Cristal. Someone is still buying the magnums of Belvedere vodka." 
Indeed, an after-hours tour of Manhattan night spots last week turned up dozens of unemployed financial industry workers partying like it's 1999. 
Noah Tepperberg, a co-owner of Suite 16, said that since early July, Monday nights have swelled from attracting 200 revelers to 500. "It's the guys I used to see in clubs in suits on the weekends," he said. "You'll look around and ask, 'Who are these people? Do they work?' The answer is, not many of them do, or they wouldn't be out at 4:30 a.m. on a Monday."
Curt Miller, the chief executive of A-L Associates, a recruiting firm for lawyers and financiers, said he is aware that some laid-off Wall Streeters are out enjoying themselves a little too much. "There are people in their late 20's, early 30's, who are saying, 'I've worked hard for the last couple years, I've saved some money, I'm going to go skiing for the winter,' " he said. " 'If someone wants to call me with a job, they can reach me in Vail.' " 
He added: "I do not think it is a good idea for people to be abusive and to just party. It is inappropriate when you are out of work and in a job market like this."
But one 29-year-old out-of-work banker, who was laid off more than a year ago from the investment banking firm Lazard, is not heeding such advice. Last Monday night, he was at the Church Street Lounge at the Tribeca Grand Hotel, showing off one of the most prized dividends of his unemployment. 
"Feel!" he implored a tall, thin brunette sitting next to him as he sucked in his stomach and jutted his chin forward in an abdominal-muscle flex. Since being let go, the former banker, in addition to traveling to California, Hawaii, Paris, London and Capri, has also been working out two hours a day, paying particular attention to his abdominals. 
Neither the travel nor the physique have come cheap. After less than two years of work, he left Lazard with a package he said totaled nearly $300,000, which he promptly deposited into his checking account. "Unfortunately, it's mostly gone," said the young man, who asked not to be identified (a condition of many Wall Street severance packages is that ex-employees not discuss them publicly). Such economic cruelties forced the banker to accept a new job, which he plans to start soon.
In the meantime, he keeps busy. For the 405-ers, a typical schedule consists of Sundays at Bungalow 8 (for bingo) followed by Pangaea; Mondays at the Tribeca Grand and then Sway; Tuesdays at the Park for karaoke followed by drinks at APT; and Wednesdays at Pangaea, Suite 16 and Lotus. 
"You exhaust yourself during the week," said a 23-year-old woman who was laid off from an investment bank, "and then you have to force yourself to go out on Thursday, Friday and Saturday night if you want to meet people with jobs."
For those who can't be so cavalier with their cash, there's an abbreviated version of the schedule. Derrick Diggs, a member of the crowd who met at the Tribeca Grand last Monday, said, "You scrimp by so that you can be fabulous one or two nights a week." Mr. Diggs, 33, who was laid off by Morgan Stanley a year ago, had been at the company for only a year and received a nominal severance. He is now struggling under the weight of $140,000 in debt he ran up while earning a joint M.B.A. and law degree at the University of Pennsylvania. 
"I'm concerned," he said of his financial situation. Still, he cannot conceive of ignoring the spoils offered in New York. To keep his bar tab reasonably low, Mr. Diggs said, "I pre-party at home" before venturing out. 
"These young people still want to see and be seen," said Steven Hall, owner of a restaurant consulting and publicity company. "They've saved money, they've gotten severance packages, and when you're 25, you're not thinking about saving. When you're 25, you say, 'I've got 10 dollars so I'll spend 15.' " 
In any economy, Manhattan's bar scene revolves around young professionals with money to burn. "These guys, whether they are laid off or just making less money, are going out a lot," agreed John McDonald, owner of Canteen and Merc Bar, and the co-owner of Dos Caminos, a new Gramercy Park bar and restaurant. "If you don't have kids and you're living in Manhattan, you are not going to be a caged animal in your apartment. You drink because things are good, and you drink because things are tough."
Some laid-off bankers are so satisfied with their current status that they have been known to turn down the rare job offer. A laid-off senior investment banker described how a friend at USA Interactive, the new media branch of Barry Diller's USA Networks, asked him to recommend a candidate for a job that paid $125,000. He suggested an unemployed junior investment banker whom he had helped train at Salomon Smith Barney. The young man, however, said he was not interested in a position that paid so little. 
The older banker was horrified. "I said: 'What? Are you crazy? It is a nightmare job market, this is a place to get insurance, to learn, to make a network. I don't think $125,000 is a little amount of money.' "
The young analyst was not swayed. "It was unbelievable," said the older banker. "The guy turned down the introduction." 
In short, a job can just get in the way of enjoying one's unemployment. Consider Vipul Tandon, 28, who said that last summer, as many of his friends lost their jobs and began to go out until the wee hours, he felt left out of the fun because he had to get up in the morning and go to work. So last month, Mr. Tandon said, he quit his job as head of strategic planning for a chemical company to join them. "It just seems like a good time not to be working," he explained. 
Even without a severance package, he said, he has few financial worries. "If you have been in business for the last four or five years, you're stupid if you don't have a lot of money saved," he said.
Some see the hubris of such an attitude as an extension of the recent boom. "The market of the 1990's fostered the arrogance displayed by these young former rainmakers," said Josiah Low, 63, a retired managing director of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and Merrill Lynch. "We saw youngsters achieve remarkable financial success. They didn't know how to handle the success and now that same group is unwilling to scale back."
One former investment banker, who was laid off twice in the last two years, is appalled by the behavior of his peers. "It just makes us all look so bad," he said. "All of us bankers, all of us New Yorkers."
Mr. Dobkin, the laid-off banker planning a trip to Las Vegas, understands that his severance will support his spending spree for only so long -- perhaps a few more months. He is not overly troubled about finding a new job, and he said that if it came to "beating down doors" to get hired, he would sooner move to Colorado for the winter to ski. 
In general, Mr. Dobkin said, the corporate accounting scandals have left him disillusioned with the business world and his chosen profession in finance. He is trying his hand at writing a television sitcom. He described it as "post-'Seinfeld,' post-'Friends,' post-9/11."
"You know," he said, "the Holden Caulfield of modern-day New York, but not as depressing."

GRAPHIC: Photos: ENJOYING THE BUST -- Unemployed Wall Streeters: Brad Gishen (second from left), David Dobkin (fourth from left), Jeff Valenty (fifth from left) and Vipul Tandon (second from right) out with friends at Suite 16. Some call themselves the 405 Club -- $405 being the amount of their weekly unemployment checks. (Roger Davies for The New York Times)(pg. 1); TIME TO SHOP -- David Dobkin, a laid-off investment banker, tries on a jacket at the John Varvatos shop in SoHo. (Monica Graff for The New York Times)(pg. 2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); SEVERANCE PAY (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); FASHION DESIGNERS (68%); VISUAL ARTS (60%); VISUAL ARTISTS (50%) NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (83%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%)

PERSON: ROSMAN, KATHERINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (65%); EUROPE (50%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 



600 of 916 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: PRELUDES; 
Business Plans Without a Dot-Com

BYLINE:  By ABBY ELLIN; Abby Ellin is a Manhattan writer. Her column on starting out in the world of money appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: preludes@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IN the mid- to late 1990's, one of the most fashionable things a young person could do was to start a business, particularly if it involved a high-technology gizmo or the creation of a virtual company.
 Of course, many of those enterprises died after the dot-com bubble burst, but the entrepreneurial spirit lives on. These days, young people are working with more traditional products, using, say, chocolate chips instead of microchips. 
 Jerry F. White, director of the Caruth Institute of Owner-Managed Business, the entrepreneurial center at the Cox School of Business at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, has witnessed the shift. 
In 2000, ideas involving the Internet were in half of all the student business plans that he saw. Not anymore. "I probably had two Internet-related concepts this past spring, and the rest of the students went back to fundamental industries," said Mr. White, who has been teaching for three decades. He expects to find even fewer technology-related plans this year. 
Mr. White said he believed that the years 1994 to 2000 -- from the emergence of the Internet to the start of the stock market collapse -- were anomalies. The current environment is more typical.
"Students are going back to what they were doing before 1994 -- things like food, clothes, basic entertainment," he said. "So what appears to be some kind of radical detox in technology is really a return to the norm."
That is also the view of Jerad Boyd, director of university relations at Students in Free Enterprise, a nonprofit group in Springfield, Mo., that promotes entrepreneurship. He says he believes that young people didn't always feel passionately about the dot-com industry -- it was just where the money happened to be. Now they are motivated by personal interests, not stock options, he said.
"There has to be a mix of passion and desire to starting your own business -- you have to enjoy it," Mr. Boyd said.
Seth Appel, 34, of Manhattan, seems to meet those criteria. He says he has a "certain nostalgia for a time when at the end of the days' labor there was a tangible product, like a desk, a chair, a house." In his case, it's sweets.
Mr. Appel, though, hasn't quit his day job -- yet. He is director of the Jewish Volunteer Corps of the American Jewish World Service. By night, he and two friends gather to cook pralines. He and his partners hope to someday soon start a praline business (tentatively called Pralines for Peace.) In the meantime, they are conducting weekly focus groups about their concoctions. 
"The traditional recipe is too sweet and overpowering, so we're modifying it," he said.
The entrepreneurial bug has also hit Molly Hislop, 28, who works as an analyst for an online market research company in New York. She recently started a jewelry design company called Marlow Designs. While she's not planning to become the next Harry Winston, she says she does want to run a business that is "small in scope, but profitable enough for me to maintain a modest standard of living."
You never know, though, where a small business may take you.
In 1996, D. J. McKie, now 31, left his job as a municipal bond trader in Chicago to start Digital Java, a small company that sold roasted coffee and imported coffee machines to wholesalers. He had always loved coffee (as a child, his mother gave it to him by the spoonful) and after three years at the firm, he realized that he loved coffee beans more than corporate bonds. Two and a half years ago, he crossed paths with an executive from Krispy Kreme Doughnuts.
"I wanted to sell them espresso machines because I'd heard they were upgrading their coffee program," he said. 
As it happened, they were, but they didn't want his espresso machines -- they wanted him. In February 2001, Krispy Kreme bought Digital Java for $389,500 in cash. Seven months later, Mr. McKie, along with his wife, Jennifer, and baby daughter, Madison, moved from Chicago to Winston-Salem, N.C., where he become senior vice president and general manager of Krispy Kreme's coffee and beverages division. 
No one is more surprised than Mr. McKie. "I don't think anyone goes into it and says, 'This is great, I'm going to be a coffee king,' " he said. "I just did what I cared about, and it worked out nicely."
Mr. Appel, meanwhile, says he's not looking to become a praline magnate or to take his company public. Instead, he says, his goal is to "make a great praline recipe that people love to eat and are willing to buy, and to create a business that generates more income than expenses." 
"We're going back to the farm in an urban context," he added.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Katherine Streeter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BUSINESS PLANS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); COMPUTER CHIPS (71%); STOCK OPTIONS (66%); FOCUS GROUPS (64%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (51%) SMALL BUSINESS; SMALL BUSINESS 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY (57%) KRISPY KREME DOUGHNUTS CORP (KREM) 

PERSON: ELLIN, ABBY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (72%); SPRINGFIELD, MO, USA (53%) TEXAS, USA (72%); MISSOURI, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002 

 
