

601 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Iraqis Bearing Brunt Of Kidnapping Epidemic
As many as 5,000 Iraqis have been kidnapped in the last year and a half. Ransom demands range from a few hundred to half a million dollars. The death rate is uncertain, and officials say that many disappear even after a ransom is paid. Seen in one way, kidnapping is just another facet of the security vacuum created by the American-led invasion of Iraq. A1

Guards in Baghdad opened fire on a crowd of protesters outside a ministry office, killing one and wounding three, as the top American commander in the Middle East warned that delays in forming a government in Iraq could lead to a rise in violence. A9

Pro-Democracy Rally in Cairo
Thousands of policemen lined the streets of Cairo, preventing a pro-democracy demonstration planned by the banned Muslim Brotherhood, Egypt's largest opposition group, in front of Parliament. But protesters gathered at two other locations to call for free presidential elections and demand further political reforms, and police arrested at least 100 of them. A6

Ongoing Conflict in Kyrgyzstan
A conflict between the newly elected Parliament in Kyrgyzstan and the old one continued to cloud prospects for the government that seized power last week. The head of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe arrived to offer help in mediating the crisis. A4

Sudan Rejects U.N. Resolution
The Sudanese foreign minister said Sudan would reject any United Nations resolution calling for the prosecution of a citizen suspected of war crimes in a court abroad. The Security Council is expected to vote on a resolution that would send those suspected of committing war crimes in the Darfur region to the International Criminal Court. A3

Schroder Criticizes Companies
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany called on companies to stop moving jobs and factories outside the country in search of cheaper labor and lower taxes and to invest in Germany to create badly needed jobs there. Figures show that Germany's unemployment rose to more than 5 million people, or 12.6 percent, the highest numbers since the years before World War II. A7

Ailing Pope Makes Appearance
Pope John Paul II made a relatively long appearance before tens of thousands of worshipers on Easter Sunday, but when he tried to speak, only an inaudible whisper came out of his mouth. An aide quickly pulled back the microphone, and the pope instead gave several silent signs of the cross as his blessing this year. A7

Brazilian Suspect Surrenders
A Brazilian farmer suspected of ordering the killing of the American-born land rights activist Sister Dorothy Stang surrendered to the authorities. Other suspects in the case implicated Vitalmiro Bastos de Moura, and led the police to his farm, where they found the pistol used to shoot Sister Dorothy. A8

NATIONAL A10-15

A Push From Congress In End-of-Life Cases
Lawmakers of both parties agreed that Congress has a role to play in who makes end-of-life decisions when the patient's wishes are unclear and are considering legislation that would give added legal recourse to patients like Terri Schiavo. A1

Representative Tom DeLay, the House majority leader and leader of the Congressional effort to keep Terri Schiavo alive, was confronted more than 16 years ago with his own agonizing end-of-life dilemma and agreed to withdraw life support from the patient, his father. A14

Terri Schiavo's parents, who are Roman Catholics, have long accused the Diocese of St. Petersburg of abandoning them by declining to join the battle for their daughter's life. They now regularly pray with two Franciscan monks, who have taken up their cause. A15

The legal battle over the life of Terri Schiavo may have ended, but a fervent crowd remains in the makeshift encampment outside the Woodside Hospice House. A15

Pricey Weapons Plan
The Army's plan to transform itself into a futuristic high-tech force has become so expensive that Congress is questioning the program's costs and complexity. A1

Law for Troops Ignored
Many nationally prominent companies are said to be ignoring a longstanding federal law that strictly limits financial companies from trying to collect money owed by active-duty service members. A1

Rove's Expanded Role
In his newly expanded role as deputy White House chief of staff for policy, Karl Rove can involve himself more deeply in issues, like reshaping Social Security, with an official endorsement from the president that allows him to bring the same focus and authority to Mr. Bush's second-term agenda as he did to his re-election. A1

Pilot Is Barred From Flying
A 34-year-old Panamanian aviator who once went to the same Oklahoma City flight school as the terror suspect Zacarias Moussaoui has now landed on a terror watch list preventing him from flying aircraft in the United States. A10

Bush Finds New Groove
White House officials, Mr. Bush's friends and Republicans allied with the administration readily say that re-election to a second term and elections in Iraq have made him more confident in office and changed the tenor of his presidency as well. A10

SCIENCE/HEALTH

New Cancer Project Proposed
Federal officials are planning to compile a complete catalog of the genetic abnormalities that characterize cancer by observing the DNA sequence of thousands of tumor samples, looking for mutations that give rise to the disease or sustain it. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Tapes May Provide Peek Into State's Power Politics
A New Jersey judge has ordered the release of secretly recorded audiotapes that capture conversations involving George E. Norcross III, one of the state's most influential power brokers. The man who recorded the tapes says they offer an insight into arm-twisting and greed. B1

Hybrid Buses Gain Favor
New York City Transit has decided to buy hybrid-electric buses instead of those that use compressed natural gas, a significant shift in its strategy for gradually replacing diesel fuels with cleaner ones, and one that suggests that the agency will focus entirely on hybrids for its fleet. B3

Problems for Pollution Law
A new law to reduce the air pollution released by equipment at New York construction sites may be weakened before it can ever be enforced because city agencies and contractors are worried about the regulations' costs. B3

SPORTSMONDAY D1-8

ARTS E1-8

Eco-Lessons From MTV
''Trippin,'' actress Cameron Diaz's unscripted MTV travelogue, has a save-the-planet goal, presenting endangered animals in their natural habitats -- and showcasing performers outside theirs -- in hopes of creating awareness about growing environmental degradation. E1

'Guess Who' a Box Office Hit
Sony's ''Guess Who,'' a comic remake of the 1967 classic ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner'' with reversed racial roles, opened at No. 1 at the box office, part of an unusually strong showing this quarter by films starring African-Americans. E2

Street Art on Cellphones
Woostercollective.com, a New York-based Web site that celebrates graffiti and other street art, has begun testing a system that allows art lovers to download images created by emerging artists onto the video screens of their cellphones. E3

OBITUARIES B6

Lord James Callaghan
The elder statesman of the British Labor Party whose tenure as prime minister was marked by the infamous ''Winter of Discontent'' and tumultuous battles with the country's powerful labor unions, he was 93. B6

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

File Sharing Under Fire
In MGM v. Grokster, the Supreme Court will hear a case in which the recording and film industries seek to hold makers of file-sharing software liable for the illegal copying and distribution of material online. The outcome may redefine copyright in an era of iPods and Tivo. C1

A.I.G. Investigation Continues
Regulators are examining transactions by the American International Group with offshore reinsurers to determine whether the company struck deals to enhance its financial position or performance, according to a person briefed on the inquiry. The transactions under scrutiny by regulators are in addition to the dozen or so problematic transactions uncovered by A.I.G.'s internal review. C2

Commercials on Public TV?
In order to raise money for noncommercial programming, producers and distributors increasingly allow their corporate underwriters to turn their credits into something resembling regular commercials. C1

Tougher Laws on Decency
Leading lawmakers and the new leader of the F.C.C. have proposed a broad expansion of indecency rules. They are also looking at larger fines and new procedures that could jeopardize the licenses of stations that repeatedly violate the rules. C1

Gossip Is More Pervasive
The gossip industry has become so pervasive and ruthless that it is difficult to break through with a distinctive voice. The industry has spawned scores of magazines, TV shows, Internet sites and blogs that are consumed with celebrity watching. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: When David steals Goliath's music; China warrants an arms embargo; censorship in the science museums; an unexpected softness.

Columns: Bob Herbert.

Autos D9
Bridge E6
Crossword E6
Metro Diary B2
TV Listings E8
Weather B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); SHOOTINGS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (75%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (75%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); VIOLENT CRIME (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); DEATH & DYING (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); WAR CRIMES (71%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (70%); ARRESTS (68%); JOB CREATION (67%); EASTER SEASON (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY & COOPERATION IN EUROPE (54%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (94%); SUDAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); EGYPT (92%); KYRGYZSTAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005



602 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: Income Gaps Found Among the College-Educated

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 28 

 BODY:
Black and Asian women with bachelor's degrees earn slightly more than similarly educated white women, and white men with four-year degrees make more than anyone else.
 A white woman with a bachelor's degree typically earned $37,800 in 2003, compared with $43,700 for a college-educated Asian woman and $41,100 for a black woman, according to data to be released Monday by the Census Bureau. 
Hispanic women took home $37,600 a year.
 The bureau did not say why the differences exist. Economists and sociologists suggest several possible factors: the tendency of minority women, especially blacks, to more often hold more than one job or work more than 40 hours a week, and the tendency of black professional women who take time off to have a child to return to the work force sooner than others.
 Employers in some fields may give financial incentives to young black women, who graduate from college at higher rates than young black men, said Roderick Harrison, a researcher at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a research organization in Washington.
 A white male with a college diploma earns far more than any similarly educated man or woman -- $66,000 a year, the Census Bureau said. Among men with bachelor's degrees, Asians earned $52,000 a year, Hispanics $49,000 and blacks $45,000.
 Workplace discrimination and the continuing difficulties of minorities to get into higher-paying management positions could help explain the disparities among men, experts say.
 The figures come from the Census Bureau's annual look at educational achievement in America, culled from a survey in March 2004. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); CENSUS (90%); WOMEN (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); LABOR FORCE (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Women; Blacks; Asian-Americans; Men; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); JOINT CENTER FOR POLITICAL & ECONOMIC STUDIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005



603 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; BILLS IN THE KNAPSACK: A Law Gets Lost; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2010 words

HEADLINE: Creditors Press Troops Despite Relief Act

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
Sgt. John J. Savage III, an Army reservist, was about to climb onto a troop transport plane for a flight to Iraq from Fayetteville, N.C., when his wife called with alarming news: ''They're foreclosing on our house.'' 
 Sergeant Savage recalled, ''There was not a thing I could do; I had to jump on the plane and boil for 22 hours.''
 He had reason to be angry. A longstanding federal law strictly limits the ability of his mortgage company and other lenders to foreclose against active-duty service members. 
 But Sergeant Savage's experience was not unusual. Though statistics are scarce, court records and interviews with military and civilian lawyers suggest that Americans heading off to war are sometimes facing distracting and demoralizing demands from financial companies trying to collect on obligations that, by law, they cannot enforce.
 Some cases involve nationally prominent companies like Wells Fargo and Citigroup, though both say they are committed to strict compliance with the law.
 The problem, most military law specialists say, is that too many lenders, debt collectors, landlords, lawyers and judges are unaware of the federal statute or do not fully understand it.
 The law, the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, protects all active-duty military families from foreclosures, evictions and other financial consequences of military service. The Supreme Court has ruled that its provisions must ''be liberally construed to protect those who have been obliged to drop their own affairs to take up the burdens of the nation.'' 
 Yet the relief act has not seemed to work in recent cases like these:
 At Fort Hood, Tex., a soldier's wife was sued by a creditor trying to collect a debt owed by her and her husband, who was serving in Baghdad at the time. A local judge ruled against her, saying she had defaulted, even though specialists say the relief act forbids default judgments against soldiers serving overseas and protects their spouses as well.
 At Camp Pendleton, Calif., more than a dozen marines returned from Iraq to find that their cars and other possessions had been improperly sold to cover unpaid storage and towing fees. The law forbids such seizures without a court order.
 In northern Ohio, Wells Fargo served a young Army couple with foreclosure papers despite the wife's repeated efforts to negotiate new repayment terms with the bank. Wells Fargo said later that it had been unaware of the couple's military status. The foreclosure was dropped after a military lawyer intervened.

Little-Known Legislation
 The relief act provides a broad spectrum of protections to service members, their spouses and their dependents. The interest rate on debts incurred before enlistment, for example, must be capped at 6 percent if military duty has reduced a service member's family income.
 The law also protects service members from repossession or foreclosure without a court order. It allows them to terminate any real estate lease when their military orders require them to do so. And it forbids judges from holding service members in default on any legal matter unless the court has first appointed a lawyer to protect their interests.
 The law is an updated version of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act, which was adopted on the eve of World War II and remained largely unchanged through the Persian Gulf war of 1991. But in July 2001, a federal court ruled that service members could sue violators of the relief act for damages. And the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11 prompted Congress to take up a long-deferred Pentagon proposal to update the old act. The revised statute, clearer and more protective than the old one, was signed into law in December 2003.
 But the news was apparently slow in reaching those who would have to interpret and enforce the law.
 ''There are 50,000 judges in this country and God knows how many lawyers,'' said Alexander P. White, a county court judge in Chicago and the chairman of one of the American Bar Association's military law committees. ''Are people falling down on the job -- the judges, the bar, the military? Probably.'' And broad understanding of the law ''is not going to happen overnight.''
 Military lawyers, credit industry organizations and some state courts and bar associations have also tried to spread the word about the new law. But these efforts are not enough, said Col. John S. Odom Jr., retired, of Shreveport, La., who is a specialist on the act. ''What we need is a way to reach Joe Bagadoughnuts in Wherever, Louisiana,'' he said. ''Because that's where these cases are turning up.''
 One reason they are surfacing in unlikely places is the Pentagon's increased reliance on Reserve and National Guard units that do not hail from traditional military towns, said Lt. Col. Barry Bernstein, the judge advocate general for the South Carolina National Guard. When these units are called up, he said, their members find themselves facing creditors and courts that may never have dealt with the relief act.
 As a result, some service members heading off to war have confronted exactly the kinds of problems the law was supposed to prevent. The Coast Guard alone handled more than 300 complaints last year; military law specialists say the numbers are probably higher in the branches sending troops abroad.

Financial Difficulties
 Sergeant Savage's lender eventually dropped its foreclosure against him after receiving repeated warnings from military lawyers at Fort Bragg, N.C. But damage was done. The foreclosure dispute remained on his credit history, hurting his ability to revive his struggling wireless Internet connection business when he returned home to Asheboro, N.C., he said. By then he had retired on full disability after being seriously injured while working on a sabotaged electrical system at the former Baghdad Convention Center. 
 Sergeant Savage has not let the matter end. Represented by Colonel Odom, he has filed a lawsuit in federal court in Greensboro, N.C. He says the EverHome Mortgage Company, a unit of the EverBank Financial Corporation in Jacksonville, Fla., violated the relief act by failing to cap his mortgage at 6 percent, wrongfully initiating foreclosure and, after dropping the foreclosure, failing to remove information about it from his credit history.
 The mortgage company denied that it violated the act or treated Sergeant Savage unfairly. His case ''has unique and extenuating circumstances'' that will be raised when the dispute comes to trial, Michael C. Koster, EverHome's president, said in a written statement.
 ''We are confident that court documents will reveal that EverBank treated Mr. Savage equitably and worked diligently to resolve this matter,'' Mr. Koster said.

Extent of Coverage
 When Sgt. Michael Gaskins of Fort Hood, Tex., was sent to Iraq last April, his wife, Melissa, was left to cope with a dispute over a delinquent loan from the Tallahassee Memorial Hospital credit union; the couple took out the loan just before Sergeant Gaskins enlisted in November 2001. When the credit union took the couple to court in Texas last year, a military lawyer at Fort Hood alerted the local judge that the new relief act required that the case be deferred because Sergeant Gaskins was abroad.
 But on Feb. 18, a county court judge in Gatesville, Tex., ruled that Mrs. Gaskins had lost the case by default. She was ordered to pay the credit union more than $6,000 and turn over the family truck, which secured the loan. Colonel Odom, who is also representing the couple, is trying to have the default judgment overturned, in part on the ground that the relief act protects spouses as well as service members.
 The credit union in Tallahassee, Fla., disputes that. ''It's our position the act does not protect her,'' said Palmer Williams, a lawyer for the organization. Judge Susan R. Stephens, the county judge who signed the default judgment, said she did not think that Mrs. Gaskins had ever invoked the relief act but said she would review the matter when it came before her.
 The relief act was also supposed to prevent the kind of situation that the marines returning to Camp Pendleton faced when they discovered that their cars and other possessions had been sold to cover towing and storage fees.
 ''The act says you need a court order to do that, and you can't get a court order without notice to the service member,'' said Maj. Michael R. Renz, director of the joint legal assistance office there. ''I've got six attorneys here, and each one of us has handled at least two or three of these cases within the last eight months.''

'I'm Not Sleeping'
 Stephen Lynch, a civilian lawyer for the Coast Guard in Cleveland, said he had stepped in repeatedly over the past year to help service members invoke their rights under the act.
 One of them is a young soldier sent to east Asia, leaving a wife and two children at home in northern Ohio. His periods of unemployment and the death of a newborn daughter last July left the young family struggling financially. Their situation was aggravated by delays in the processing of his first military paychecks, said Mr. Lynch, who asked that the couple's name not be used because their debt problems could hurt the soldier's career. 
 The soldier's wife said she had tried for months to renegotiate their mortgage with Wells Fargo Home Mortgage. But on March 8, just three weeks after paying the bank $3,000 that the U.S.O. had raised on her behalf, she was served with foreclosure papers. 
 ''I'm having anxiety attacks,'' the wife said in an interview that night. ''I'm not sleeping.'' She said she was especially worried about how much to tell her husband. ''The other military wives I've spoken to all say, 'Don't let them know you're upset; don't let them hear you cry.'''
 Kevin Waetke, a spokesman for Wells Fargo, said the foreclosure action was dropped as soon as Mr. Lynch contacted the bank's lawyers. The bank had not known the couple was eligible for relief, he said.

Different Experiences
 A Coast Guardsman, Kevin Cornell, was baffled by his experience with Citigroup's credit card unit. When he enlisted, he had a Citibank card and another from Sears, whose credit card operations Citibank acquired in late 2003. When he applied last fall to have the interest rates on both cards capped at 6 percent, Citibank did even better: it cut the rate on his pre-enlistment balance to zero.
 But the Sears card was another story; a different Citibank employee refused to make the interest rate cut on that card retroactive to his date of enlistment, as the new relief act requires. Again, Mr. Lynch intervened. But he said he wondered how many other service members had been misinformed.
 Janis Tarter, a spokeswoman for the bank, said the company's policy was to go beyond the requirements of the relief act on all its credit cards. ''We regret the difficulty that our customer encountered,'' Ms. Tarter said. ''It is not representative of the level of service we work to provide.''

Burden of Enforcement
 Some problems that military personnel are confronting suggest that the new law may need more work by Congress. For example, although mandatory arbitration clauses are becoming increasingly common in credit agreements, arbitration is not even mentioned in the relief act. 
 But the biggest problem, both bankers and military lawyers say, is that the enforcement of the act rests initially on the shoulders of the service members themselves. They must notify their creditors or landlords of their military status to invoke their rights under the act. It is one more chore for a soldier getting ready for overseas duty, and it often does not get done properly.
 And if a landlord or creditor, out of ignorance or intransigence, refuses to comply with the act, the service member may not have the time or money to fight back, said Capt. Kevin P. Flood, a retired Navy lawyer.
 ''Sure, if you take them to court and win, you can even collect damages,'' Captain Flood said. ''But most of our people are not in that position. They are just regular Joes, and they don't have the money to hire a lawyer.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sgt. John J. Savage III and his wife fought an illegal foreclosure on their house. Federal law limits the ability of lenders to foreclose against active-duty service members. (Photo by John Loomis for The New York Times)
Sgt. Mike Gaskins and his wife, Melissa, were taken to court over a loan. A judge ruled that the lender could collect $6,000 and repossess the Gaskinses' truck. (Photo by Jerry W. Hoefer for The New York Times)
 Boatswain's Mate Second Class Kevin Cornell had no problem readjusting the interest rate on one credit card through the relief act, but had trouble doing the same on another. (Photo by David Maxwell for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); REPOSSESSION (78%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (78%); EVICTION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); JUDGES (74%); FAMILY (74%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (73%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TERRORISM (59%) United States Armament and Defense; Surveys and Series; Credit; Law and Legislation; Foreclosures; Credit and Money Cards; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (86%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Wells Fargo & Co; Citigroup Inc; Supreme Court (US)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (86%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: Diana B Henriques

GEOGRAPHIC: FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) United States; Iraq; Afghanistan 

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005



604 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; New Economy; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Some see technology as a 'graying industry,' but others see a vibrant life ahead for applied computing in new fields.

BYLINE: By Steve Lohr

DATELINE: SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. 

 BODY:
HAS the technology industry a big and undeniably important slice of the economy -- become a business whose best days are behind it? 
 In other words, is Silicon Valley turning into Detroit?
 That is certainly the way things look now to some industry observers. They believe that Silicon Valley is destined to see its competitive stature erode, as new global rivals undercut American technology companies on price and increasingly wrest the lead from the United States in innovation. 
 More near-term support for the ''graying industry'' view of technology came two weeks ago from Goldman Sachs. The economy may be doing nicely and corporate capital spending picking up, but it will not help the technology industry much, according to the investment bank's survey of corporate spending plans. In 2005, corporate spending on information technology will rise less than 4 percent, the Goldman analysts predicted. ''Technology looks to be firmly in the cyclical category for now,'' the report stated.
 Yet another, somewhat longer, view suggests that America's technology industry will not inevitably decline. The more optimistic outlook rests not on the prospects for Wall Street investors, but on the nature of information technology. 
 Computing is an almost infinitely malleable, universal tool. Software can be programmed to do all manner of tasks. So computing is more like biology -- it evolves -- than like traditional industrial technologies such as steam, electricity and the internal combustion engine.
 Information technology moves on, up the ladder of economic evolution. The PC Forum, an annual gathering organized by the technologist Esther Dyson, known for her free-ranging and often incisive intellect, provided a glimpse last week of where the technology is headed. The conference is a kind of ''show, tell and schmooze'' for a few hundred industry executives, venture capitalists and start-ups. 
 One way new technology is moving ahead is by increasing its focus on the uses of technology in specific fields, instead of being narrowly fascinated with the tools themselves. So the technology, Ms. Dyson noted, becomes interesting to a wider world, beyond ''engineers from Silicon Valley.''
 Health care, most specialists agree, is a field where information technology, if properly used, could help reduce medical errors and reduce costs. And several companies at the forum were venturing into health care. 
 Medsphere Systems is a start-up that hopes to bring the open-source software formula to hospitals. Fewer than 10 percent of American hospitals have computerized clinical systems with electronic patient records and software for tracking their tests, treatments and prescriptions. The current proprietary systems -- produced by Cerner, Epic Systems, McKesson, General Electric and others -- are too costly for many cash-strapped community hospitals. 
 Steve Shreeve, Medsphere's founder, and his brother, Dr. Scott Shreeve, both did training stints in Veterans Administration hospitals, which created its own clinical software. The system, called Vista, was developed with taxpayers' money, and a Freedom of Information Act request brought Medsphere a copy of Vista.
 Medsphere has rewritten Vista to run on Linux, the popular open-source operating system. Larry Augustin, a founder of VA Linux, an early open-source business, joined the company as chief executive earlier this year. Medsphere has two hospital customers so far. Mr. Augustin says the company's target market is community hospitals with 100 to 400 beds. It hopes to sell support for the open-source software, which is free and being developed and debugged by a cooperating group of programmers.
 ''Health care applications like this will be part of the next wave of open source,'' Mr. Augustin said.
 Doctors are typically portrayed as hidebound obstacles to the introduction of information technology. But the experience of Epocrates, a private Silicon Valley company that supplies software and medical information, indicates that physicians are not necessarily Luddites, if a technology is affordable and delivers real benefits. 
 Epocrates's software and medical data service runs on hand-held computers. About 40 percent of physicians use hand-helds, perhaps the highest adoption rate of any profession. And one in four doctors in the United States now uses Epocrates, which provides regularly updated information on diseases, diagnoses, drugs, medical journal research and billing references and codes from 120 insurance plans. 
 In surveys, doctors said they saved 11 to 30 minutes a day using Epocrates instead of having to hunt for information in a file or a medical reference book. Physicians pay from $30 to $150 a year for Epocrates, depending on how many services they use. About 20 percent of the company's daily information updates sent to doctors are messages paid for by pharmaceutical companies. But Kirk Loevner, chief executive of Epocrates, said physicians say they do not mind the ads as long as the sponsored information is clearly identified. 
 Another path for technology can be seen in the proliferation of new services and networks on the Web that are being built, largely from the ground up, by ordinary people. The information and images -- the content, in media industry jargon -- is supplied not by company-paid professionals but by communities of people who find the data useful. Those seeking a business in the phenomenon call this information user-generated content. Photos, event listings, blogs and wikis -- Web sites that allow users to make their own entries -- on every imaginable subject are all part of the trend. 
 There is mounting evidence that this grass-roots media hybrid is moving into the mainstream. Ross Mayfield, chief executive of Socialtext, reports rising demand for his start-up's expertise in using wikis among large corporations like Nokia and Kodak. Last week, Yahoo announced that it had bought Flickr.com, a Web site where people store and share photos. Jerry Yang, a Yahoo founder, said candidly, ''We are venturing boldly, and somewhat blindly, into this world of user-generated content.'' 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); HOSPITALS (84%); HEALTH CARE (84%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); VENTURE CAPITAL (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MEDICAL RECORDS (68%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (64%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (60%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (60%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (60%); VETERANS (50%) Computers and the Internet; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005



605 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; SOCCER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Huffs, Puffs and Can't Slay the 'Giant'

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, March 27 

 BODY:
A sign at one end of Azteca Stadium proclaimed in Spanish, ''The Giant is Not Dead,'' a sentiment that seemed based more on hope than conviction.
 Having no choice but to accept the economic and political clout of the United States, Mexico had also endured the unthinkable in recent years -- the regional dominance by the Americans in soccer, Mexico's national game.
 But order and national pride were restored Sunday in a contentious World Cup qualifying match that provided Mexico a 2-1 victory over a tired and disorganized American team.
 Given that the United States had won six of the past eight matches between the two nations, Mexico's victory brought as much relief as celebration. 
 ''I woke up sweating at 4 in the morning,'' the Mexican forward Jose Francisco Fonseca said. ''That's the pressure.''
 Even in defeat -- its 22nd in 23 matches played in Mexico -- the United States (1-1) remains in encouraging position to qualify for the 2006 World Cup in Germany.
 But with eight matches remaining, victory now becomes more pressing against Guatemala (1-0-1) on Wednesday in Birmingham, Ala. The Americans must play without midfielder DaMarcus Beasley, who drew a second yellow card and a one-match suspension.
 ''Now the real pressure's on,'' goalkeeper Kasey Keller said.
 For the Americans, anyway.
 Mexico moved to the top of the regional qualifying group with a 2-0 record (the top three qualify for the World Cup, and the fourth-place team goes to a playoff against a team from Asia), and the 100,000-plus fans at Azteca Stadium reclaimed their self-assurance. They had been so clearly nervous at the start that they only half-heartedly jeered ''The Star-Spangled Banner.'' 
 ''Soccer is the only thing where Mexico can beat the United States,'' said Arturio Salinas, a Mexican fan. ''This is very important for our pride.''
 If the Mexican supporters could breathe easier in victory, the American players could hardly breathe at all at the 7,300-foot elevation. As the United States grew fatigued, its defense became confused and tattered, and Mexico scored twice in a flurry between the 30th and 32nd minutes.
 ''I believe our players shut down in the last 15 minutes of the first half, and that cost us the game,'' Manager Bruce Arena said.
 The Mexican coach, Ricardo Lavolpe, was expelled before halftime, apparently after complaining too vehemently about a series of fouls and offside calls against his team. By then, Mexico was comfortably in the lead by two goals.
 Lavolpe walked slowly and theatrically off the field, dragging his sports coat as if he were a matador dragging his cape and as if the bull, as played by the United States, had been slain.
 The Americans opened in a style of extreme caution, using Eddie Johnson as a lone striker and employing five midfielders. This protective shell was meant to safeguard against exhaustion at altitude and against an expected early surge from Mexico, which had experienced a humiliating 2-0 defeat to the United States at the 2002 World Cup in South Korea.
 This tactic, however, left Johnson stranded and isolated. In retrospect, Arena conceded, it might have been a mistake not to pair him with a second forward.
 Arena will also be second-guessed for starting only two players from Major League Soccer, after training an M.L.S. group at altitude for two weeks in Colorado Springs. Instead, he started a European-based lineup, featuring players who had less than a week of altitude training.
 Two of those players, midfielders Claudio Reyna and Landon Donovan, were far from peak fitness, Reyna having just returned from injury in England and Donovan having received so little playing time in the German Bundesliga that he is expected to return to M.L.S.
 For a half-hour, the guarded American strategy prevented a goal, but it also robbed the visitors of any enthusiasm and assertiveness against a team playing with much greater insistence.
 As the Americans sat back, hoping to counterpunch, Mexico gained more confidence and delivered a quick knockout blow.
 The American defense missed the steadiness of Eddie Pope, who is regaining his form after injury. In his absence, the backline of Steve Cherundolo, Oguchi Onyewu, Gregg Berhalter and Carlos Bocanegra was stretched to the breaking point by Mexico's clever three-forward attack.
 A splendid passing sequence in the 30th minute left the American defense shifted to guard the left post, just as the Mexican midfielder Jaime Lozano headed the ball back to his right. Keller fell into the side netting of the goal, and Jared Borgetti headed the ball into an unguarded net to put Mexico up, 1-0.
 On the second Mexican goal, midfielder Antonio Naelson found himself alone in the penalty area, no defenders within yards of him, and he ricocheted the ball off the post for a 2-0 lead.
 ''I think we hit a wall,'' Berhalter said. ''When you lose your breath, it's tough to stay strong mentally.''
 The United States played with more openness in the second half, and Eddie Lewis scored on a left-footed shot in the 59th minute. But in pushing forward, the Americans risked vulnerability to more Mexican scoring chances, and, with greater precision, the home team might have won by 5-1.
 ''If we had lost this game, there would have been a lot of anger,'' said Jaime Archundia, a Mexican fan. ''And the stadium would have been dead.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: With United States goalkeeper Kasey Keller down in the goal, Jared Borgetti, right, headed Mexico into a 1-0 lead yesterday. (Photo by Ben Radford/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SOCCER (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); ATHLETES (76%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (79%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (79%); GUATEMALA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005



606 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: Cities That Are Chic and Childless 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Besides housing costs, there is another major barrier to raising children in some cities: the cost of child care. According to a recent survey, the median cost for center-based care for an infant in San Francisco is more than $12,000 a year. For toddlers and preschoolers, the figure is $8,400. 
 Reducing the cost of quality child care will enable parents to remain in the cities they love -- at prices they can afford.

Saskia Traill
San Francisco, March 24, 2005

The writer is a child and family policy analyst at the National Economic Development and Law Center in Oakland.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (88%); FAMILY (88%); WRITERS (86%); POLLS & SURVEYS (85%); QUALITY CONTROL (85%); PUBLIC POLICY (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT & LAW CENTER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005



607 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: Promoters of Cincinnati Align Marketing Effort

BYLINE: By Nat Ives

 BODY:
More than 30 organizations in the Cincinnati area are aligning their marketing to speak in a single voice, adopting as a brand ''Cincinnati U.S.A. -- All Together Surprising.'' 
 The organizations, with the support of the region's largest employer, Procter & Gamble, hired Landor Associates, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of the WPP Group, to develop the campaign. 
The region joins cities like Jacksonville, Fla., and states like Kentucky and Oregon in trying to create an umbrella brand for areas like tourism, economic development and education.
 The organizations, based in 15 counties in Indiana, Kentucky and Ohio, that are adopting ''Cincinnati U.S.A.'' for promotional purposes include Xavier University, the Greater Cincinnati Chamber of Commerce and the Dearborn County (Ind.) Chamber. They also include several of the region's convention and visitor bureaus, which are combining under the banner of the Cincinnati U.S.A. Regional Tourism Network; among them are the Greater Cincinnati and Northern Kentucky bureaus


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (88%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (86%); TOURISM (86%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%) Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: LANDOR ASSOCIATES (58%); WPP PLC (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: XAVIER UNIVERSITY (56%) Procter & Gamble Co

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (58%); WPP (LSE) (58%); PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%)

PERSON: Nat Ives

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (95%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (95%); KENTUCKY, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Cincinnati (Ohio)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005



608 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Automobiles; AUTOS ON MONDAY/Design; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Little Cars in the Big Apple: Still Only a Good Idea

BYLINE: By PHIL PATTON

 BODY:
SOMETIMES the cars that are not on display at the auto shows are the most important ones. Where, for instance, at the New York auto show, held in the most citified city in America, were the city cars? 
 In Europe, the ''city car'' is a well-understood concept, a vehicle whose dimensions and design are as ideally suited to its duties as the minivan's multiple seats and cup holders are to its role in American suburbs. A city car is one intended primarily for urban use. Its size makes it economical and easy to park and lets it slip between huge trucks clogging the narrow streets. And, yes, a city car is a bit sophisticated in style. 
 In New York, a city car is not a tiny car. ''Every time I come here I'm struck by the scale of vehicles,'' Ed Welburn, vice president for global design at General Motors, said at the auto show last week. ''It is unlike any other city in the world.'' 
 By scale, he meant comparative size: Fiats in Florence cast far different shadows than Hummers in Houston. In Manhattan, drivers have not downsized their transportation choices for practical considerations.
 The absence of city cars at the auto show was heightened by an anniversary. 
 This spring, fans of the BMW Isetta are commemorating the 50th anniversary of the little ''egg on wheels'' that may have been the first city car. Conceived by Italian refrigerator makers, the Isetta appealed to BMW executives trying in vain to sell expensive sports coupes in a continent recovering from war. They swallowed their engineering pride, licensed the design and marketed the little pod with a motorcycle engine. Young G.I.'s in Germany (like Pfc. Elvis Presley) clowned around in Isettas, and a few made it to the United States, where even publicity shots with stars could not sell them. 
 The same economic conditions that gave rise to the Isetta led to the planning of the Mini in Britain. It is easy to forget how small the original Mini was -- a full 2 feet shorter than its current embodiment. 
 At the Detroit show in January, city cars made by Smart, the microcar division of DaimlerChrysler, were zipping through downtown streets almost continuously. Energetic teenagers in T-shirts handed out Smart promotional goodies; brochures at the company's display promised ''Smart is planning to come to America.'' 
 But Smart was nowhere to be found at the New York show. Contradicting one another, DaimlerChrysler executives said that Smart may die (or it may live), and that it may come to the United States in 2007 (or never).
 This winter, executives of DaimlerChrysler conceded that there were problems at Smart. ''Smart is a disaster,'' said Eckhard Cordes, head of the Mercedes car group, at the Geneva auto show. Smart has been losing money since it began sales in 1998, and the losses are expected to continue through 2005; with the dollar very weak against the euro, the case for bringing the cars to the United States loses steam, too, despite the appeal of the car's fuel efficiency. 
 The model that Smart was apparently planning to bring to America, however, was not a city car but a four-wheel-drive vehicle called the ForMore. The car Manhattanites often say they love is the little Smart, the ForTwo, whose virtues include an overall length that allows two to fit in a parking space scaled for a full-size American car. A potential source may be a company in Santa Rosa, Calif., Zap, that has received approval from the Environmental Protection Agency to begin importing the ForTwo on an unofficial basis.
 In Japan, Suzuki has shown a hybrid city car that is a fraction of the size of a Toyota Prius. In Europe the variety of small cars intended primarily for city driving multiplies each year. The latest city cars shown at the Geneva auto show included the Citro<3>n C-1 and its siblings, the Peugeot 107 and the Toyota Aygo. 
 A new approach to the city car was embodied in Renault's Zoe design study, the spiritual successor to the groundbreaking Twingo. Patrick Le Quement, the company's senior vice president for corporate design, called the Zoe ''a dynamic upper range city car,'' a vehicle that delivers ''luxury in a compact format.'' 
 More practically, the podlike three-seater, which is just over 11 feet long, is full of clever ideas about access to a flexible interior. It has been designed to facilitate loading where space is at a premium. The sliding door on the passenger side can be set to open for access to front and rear seats or just the front, for instance, and a panel in the roof lifts, clamshell-style, as the door opens. Zoe is designed for the limits of the city.
 There are odd echoes of the Isetta in the i-unit, Toyota's strange offering at the New York show. It is an experiment in defining minimal auto mobility. Looking like the demon spawn of a Segway ''human transporter'' and a baby stroller, the i-unit is an electric vehicle whose styling suggested an alternative future where cities do not have cars at all. Conservative as Toyota may be in styling, the Prius has shown that the company knows how to take a big-picture view; the i-unit is an effort to radically reimagine the city car.
 At their best, city cars, like city life, represent the creativity that grows out of constriction and congestion. 
 What makes a city car is ultimately not a formula of length or volume but something like attitude. Champions of the city who inveigh against sprawl these days point to the writing of Richard Florida, the sociologist whose books describe a ''creative class'' who make cities work better than suburbs. Creative people benefit from connection, and even constriction. They meet and network in cities. 
 The interior of the Renault Zoe is decorated with a pattern that suggests this networking. L.E.D.'s on the ceiling and images on the carpet carry the same pattern -- part silicon chip layout, part map. Renault describes it as ''a printed circuit linking some of the world's great metropolises, the breeding ground of new trends.'' 
 ''Zoe is charm personified,'' said Mr. Le Quement of Renault. Who can be against that?
 It may be that what we want in a city car is personality and sophistication -- city values -- rather than any package of size or power or convenience. City dwellers may want the iPod of cars -- with the emphasis on ''I,'' not pod. Such cars would have sophisticated but simple designs, and ease of function but also style. They would be not just urban, but urbane.


GRAPHIC: Photos: In the 1950's and 60's, minicars held promise: BMW Isettas, above, had star power, especially when making a guest appearance with Cary Grant. The original Mini, below, was practical and groovy.
Modern interpretations of efficient transportation include the Smart ForTwo, above
the Renault Zoe, left
 and the Toyota i-unit, below. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAR ENTHUSIASTS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (86%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); ADOLESCENTS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: ECKHARD CORDES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005



609 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: A Vast Brazilian Project for Water Diversion Is Greeted by Widespread Skepticism

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: JUAZEIRO-PETROLINA, Brazil, March 26 

 BODY:
For well over a century, the millions of people who live in the parched backlands of northeastern Brazil have looked at the Sao Francisco River with thirst and longing. Nearly 2,000 miles long, it has been seen as the one hope for ending the cycle of drought and exodus that has made this region the poorest and most backward in the country.
 But now the government is poised to carry out a bold plan that it says will accomplish those goals. President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva has authorized $1.7 billion to build a pair of canals hundreds of miles long to divert water from this river basin, the country's second largest, to the most arid parts of the interior. This would be the first phase of a much larger project that envisions eventually redirecting water from the Amazon watershed to this area.
 Ciro Gomes, Brazil's minister of national integration, likens the sweep and impact of the plan to the creation of the Tennessee Valley Authority in the United States about 70 years ago. ''Roosevelt is a reference point to me,'' Mr. Gomes said in a telephone interview from Brasilia, the capital. ''You have to think of what that region was before and what it became later because of his vision.'' 
 But opponents of the venture, including environmental groups and business interests, argue that so ambitious an undertaking is unnecessary and far more costly than the initial price indicates. They favor the construction of more reservoirs, cisterns, wells and aqueducts, which they contend would be cheaper and more efficient than building the canals and compromising the flow of a river already damaged by pollution and deforestation.
 ''The problem of the northeast is not the scarcity of water, but the way that water is managed and existing projects left unfinished,'' Renato Cunha, director of the Bahia Environmental Group, said in an interview in Salvador, the state capital. ''This plan is not going to solve the problem. It will only exacerbate existing conflicts over who controls land and water.''
 Traditionally, Brazil has looked to gargantuan public works to resolve many of its social and economic ills. The Trans-Amazon Highway, the Itaipu Dam and the Angra dos Reis nuclear power plants are all examples of megaprojects that were meant to transform the country but, in the opinion of many Brazilians, ended up bringing as many problems as benefits.
 The Sao Francisco, sometimes called ''Brazil's Nile,'' and the vast hinterland of sand and scrub around it, known as the sertao, hold a special place in the Brazilian imagination. The droughts that have regularly afflicted the region since the 19th century have forced millions of peasants south to cities like Sao Paulo to seek jobs, a migration akin to that of poor American blacks leaving the South to work in the factories of Chicago and Detroit.
 Mr. da Silva is himself among those migrants, having been driven from his birthplace in Pernambuco as a child. When he talks of the region's perennial water shortage and the resulting poverty and social distortions, it is always in strongly emotional and personal terms. He has a clear disdain for the traditional political bosses, called colonels, who use their control of the water supply to control votes and expand their landholdings.
 His government, in fact, has been promoting the proposal as a way to ensure a reliable water supply for poor people and their animals, while accusing opponents of selfishness. ''It is a humanitarian issue'' and ''a question of solidarity,'' Mr. da Silva said recently.
 Opponents of the proposal, though, maintain that the talk of helping the poor is a smoke screen. Much -- if not most -- of the water, they contend, will actually go to fruit growing projects deeper in the interior, for irrigation, or to shrimp farms, two of the fastest-expanding export industries in this part of the country.
 But Fernando Bezerra Coelho, the mayor of Petrolina and a supporter of Mr. da Silva's governing coalition, contended that even that goal would be misguided and would lack economic logic. ''Why irrigate 100,000 acres that are hundreds of miles from the river when you can irrigate a much larger area right around here at a much lower cost?'' he said in an interview here.
 The proposed project predates the current administration, and before Mr. da Silva's party came to power in 2003, it vigorously opposed the plan, calling it a waste of money that would wrongly benefit a rich elite at the expense of the general population. A confidential party document made available to The New York Times by someone who had access to them through connections with the Brazilian Congress criticized the idea that ''the only solution to the problem is transferral'' and concluded that reforestation and better use of underground aquifers could ''allay the regimen of a lack of rain.''
 But next year is an election year, and Mr. da Silva is expected to seek a second four-year term. The water diversion project promises to be a boon for a handful of construction companies that are among the biggest campaign donors in the country and have been chafing at the government's restrictions on big public works projects, imposed to help meet budget surplus targets promised to the International Monetary Fund.
 ''This is clearly being done for electoral purposes,'' said Ana Cacilda Rezende Reis, a lawyer who belongs to the Permanent Forum for the Defense of the Sao Francisco. ''It's popular with voters, who have been misled as to who is really going to get the water, but even more so with the people who are going to get the construction contracts.''
 Mr. Gomes, whose home state stands to be one of the principal beneficiaries of the project, said such accusations are ''unjust.'' He noted that Mr. da Silva announced his intention to divert the water during his first month in office, and attributed delays in carrying out the project to ''our desire to negotiate with opponents and incorporate some of their suggestions into the project.''
 As things now stand, the project has no foreign financing and will be paid for entirely out of the government budget, unusual for a venture on so grand a scale. The previous administration had contacted the World Bank in hopes of securing its support, but those efforts fizzled after the bank did an analysis that turned out to be highly critical of a version of the plan that opponents say differs little from what Mr. da Silva is now proposing.
 ''The project would have little effect on the cost of emergency water supply during drought years,'' the report concluded. ''Secure supplies of household water for the entire northeast could be guaranteed by alternatives at a fraction of the cost of the proposed project.''
 As originally conceived, the river transfer plan also envisaged replenishing the Sao Francisco with water from the Tocantins, a river that feeds into the Amazon basin, by reversing the course of a tributary and building a canal of about 200 miles through the heart of the country. Though that part of the project, seen as the most costly and least popular, has been delayed, it has not been canceled.
 ''This will be done in the future, but not before 2050,'' Mr. Gomes said. ''We have to have a hierarchy of priorities so that we don't have water going to waste before the users of it are in place.''
 Spread over nine states and hundreds of thousands of square miles, the 50 million residents of the northeast are suspicious by nature and experience. Over the years, they have seen one project after another begun and then abandoned with a change of government, or witnessed others bring unexpected problems.
 For example, the Sobradinho Dam just west of here, built by the military dictatorship and inaugurated in 1978, was supposed to bring jobs and light to residents of the region. It did do that for some, but it also devastated fishing, blocked navigation and ended the cyclical flooding essential to agriculture along the banks of the river.
 ''The river commerce and shipping that used to animate the economy is dead, and you've got settlements two miles from the river bank that depend on water trucks,'' said Misael Aguilar Silva, the mayor of Juazeiro and the son of a river pilot. ''The river is sick, and this project is only going to make it sicker. It's like forcing an anemic person to donate blood.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Elza Oliveira da Silva lives in Salitre near the government-built Sobradinho Dam but has no running water. The project also devastated fishing and ended flooding needed for agriculture along the Sao Francisco River.
 Brazil's Sao Francisco River, long used for bathing and washing clothes, has become the object of a plan to divert water to the parched interior. (Photographs by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times)Map of Brazil highlighting Sao Francisco River: Pollution and deforestation have hurt the Sao Francisco River.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); DROUGHT (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); WATER RIGHTS (78%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%); DEFORESTATION (65%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (65%); POWER PLANTS (60%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (50%) Water; Canals; Reservoirs; Water

COMPANY: TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (79%) Larry Rohter; Luiz Inacio Lula (Pres) Da Silva

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) Sao Francisco River (Brazil)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005



610 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Political Memo; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Fields Counts On Women In Her Corner

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
Jeanne Shaheen, the former governor of New Hampshire and Kerry-Edwards campaign chairwoman, is the keynote speaker. Faye Wattleton and Robin Chandler Duke, among the best-known women's rights advocates in the country, are chairwomen. And C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president who is hoping to become the city's first female mayor, is the beneficiary.
 They will all come together on Thursday at a ''Women for Fields Kickoff Mayoral Breakfast'' at a Midtown hotel, a fund-raiser for her campaign that is expected to be Ms. Fields's largest so far and one that sends the unmistakable message that she believes female voters will give her an edge over her male rivals in the Democratic mayoral primary on Sept. 13. 
 In interviews, Ms. Fields has cited the frustration of another all-male primary and the potential lift her victory would give to women in politics and other fields as among her reasons for running. Even though women outnumber men in voter registration -- and despite a major female mayoral candidate in each of the last three decades -- ''we've never had a woman mayor,'' Ms. Fields notes.
 ''When we look at where we are given our numbers, our involvement in the process and our experiences, I find that women are very interested in terms of a woman moving forward, taking the opportunity to do this and being very interested and supportive,'' she said last week.
 Aside from the breakfast this week, Ms. Fields has been contacting community groups dominated by women and reaching out to women leaders, particularly in black and Latino neighborhoods. Joseph Mercurio, her chief consultant, noted that women made up 60 percent of registered Democrats in the city and two-thirds of black Democratic voters.
 ''There has got to be some juice in there,'' he said.
 But whether her candidacy will develop into a cause among women is debatable. Though it is early in the campaign and her associates say she will soon formally announce her candidacy and step up her appearances, there are signs that Ms. Fields can hardly take female voters for granted.
 Most independent polls show that among Democratic voters, Ms. Fields, who has so far run such a low-key campaign that insiders question if she is serious about following through, is running a distant second to Fernando Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president, who is seeking to make his own history as the city's first Latino mayor.
 A WNBC/Marist College Institute poll last week showed her trailing Mr. Ferrer, who is of Puerto Rican descent, among women as well. Mr. Ferrer had support among 38 percent of women, compared with 26 percent for Ms. Fields and single digits for the other two contenders, the City Council speaker, Gifford Miller, and Representative Anthony D. Weiner.
 Pollsters say women tend to do well in early polls in New York because their gender helps them stand out, though that does not easily translate into votes.
 Celinda Lake, a pollster in Washington who has worked on New York City campaigns but is not advising any of the candidates, said Ms. Fields's effort to promote her gender would probably help with single women, black women and liberal white voters, who have ''a lot of desire for women leadership.''
 ''It's certainly at least a tie-breaker for them,'' she said.
 But while other big cities like Chicago, Washington, Seattle and Atlanta have elected female mayors -- women are mayors in 13 of the 100 largest United States cities -- history has not been kind to female mayoral candidates in New York. Bella Abzug (1977), Carol Bellamy (1985) and Ruth Messinger (1997) all failed.
 ''It is hard for women to get accepted for executive office,'' Ms. Lake said. ''People in New York think it is a brawling, tough place to run.''
 Ms. Messinger said New Yorkers ''somehow think women can be legislators but not executives.''
 Still, she said that despite her belief the city is overdue for a female mayor, she was supporting Mr. Ferrer, whom she described as a longstanding ally on issues. Ms. Messinger downplayed any boost Ms. Fields may get because she is a woman.
 ''As far as voters go, I think New York is as it is, a very complicated place with all kinds of constituencies,'' she said. ''And I don't think women are some single constituency. Most voters are interested in candidates' positions, and while they may look at a woman candidate for being a woman, that is not their major focus.''
 Ms. Fields's aides, however, said they were taking a lesson from the Messinger campaign, which they do not believe, backed by press accounts of the race at the time, made an aggressive pitch toward women until late in the campaign.
 Ms. Fields has sprinkled her public remarks with promises to expand domestic violence programs and improve the economic health of small businesses owned by women and minorities.
 And for the fund-raiser, which an aide said would net $200,000 or more, she is turning to some high-profile women. 
 Ms. Wattleton, a former president of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, is the president of the Center for the Advancement of Women, based in Manhattan. Ms. Duke, the former president of the National Abortion Rights Action League, now Naral Pro-Choice America, was a major fund-raiser for the Kerry-Edwards campaign.
 Mr. Mercurio said their roots in the abortion rights movement were not a major factor in their selection as chairwomen, though he noted polls showed most voters in New York supported abortion rights. Instead, Ms. Wattleton and Ms. Duke were seen as part of a strategy to galvanize contributors and voters for what shapes up as a hard campaign.
 As Ms. Fields put it to couple of hundred women the other night at her annual Women's History Month reception: ''It is important we rise in public life and professional life. We all have to be a part of making change.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: C. Virginia Fields, left, was greeted by Sandra Ruiz at a Women's History Month event last week. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); WOMEN (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CITIES (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); MEN (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JEANNE SHAHEEN (74%); ANTHONY D WEINER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005



611 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Hands Across North America

BYLINE: By Rafael Fernandez de Castro and Rossana Fuentes Berain. 
Rafael Fernandez de Castro and Rossana Fuentes Berain are professors at the Autonomous Technological Institute of Mexico and, respectively, editor and managing editor of the journal Foreign Affairs en Espanol.

DATELINE: Mexico City 

 BODY:
FOR all its bureaucratic faults, the European Union represents an important advance in the relations between nations, transforming once bitter and war-prone rivals into a model of cooperation, prosperity and community. The United States, on the other hand, blessed with two stable and peaceful neighbors, has no need for such a tight regional alliance. Or does it?
 The meeting last week among the three North American leaders -- President Bush, President Vicente Fox of Mexico and Prime Minister Paul Martin of Canada -- at Mr. Bush's Texas ranch may have represented the beginning of serious discussion of that question. In their joint statement, the participants said their goal was a ''security and prosperity partnership'' for the continent. This shows a recognition that an absence of military conflict is not a good enough reason to avoid tighter regional alliances, particularly in a globalizing world where competition comes not only from other nations, but increasingly from other blocs of countries. 
 The idea that political stability could be a building block of economic prosperity and improved quality of life was something that Jean Monnet, the architect of the European Union, understood when he brought his long-term vision out of the ashes of a bitter war. And in 50 years, what was once simply a trade area has turned into a real political community, fostering peace and advancing the economic development of all its members. 
 By the time North Americans got serious about even limited continental cooperation, at the end of the cold war, it was enough to think solely in economic terms. Thus the North American Free Trade Agreement seemed sufficient to bring about prosperity and draw our countries closer together. But 11 years after it came into effect, Nafta is clearly an insufficient response to the 9/11 attacks, the strengthening of the euro, the rise of China as an economic and political power, and many other major challenges. We need to shut off the automatic pilot under which the countries of North America have been flying for the last decade.
 We must move beyond just managing trade and into constructing a new relationship that has four principal goals: enhancing security cooperation; further strengthening economic ties; closing Mexico's development gap; and, certain to be the most controversial, building an institutional architecture to bring a North American community closer to reality.
 First, security: the attacks of Sept. 11 and the rise of global terrorism show the need for a safety perimeter around the continent. The Mexican and the United States governments are deeply troubled by intelligence reports that Al Qaeda might be laying plans for an attack across America's southern border. But simply putting more guards and towers in the Arizona desert won't keep America safe. In place of the inefficient borders between the countries today, we need a policy on a strong external continental border. 
 Each country would of course keep sovereignty over the edges of its own territory, but each would have to meet border security requirements agreed upon by all three parties to ensure there are no weak links. This wall around the continent would, in turn, allow us to make internal North American crossings more flexible; the European model, with its uniform visa requirements, is worth following. 
 As for the economic cooperation, we've come a long way thanks to Nafta. Nevertheless there are obvious points of contention -- that trucks loaded in Mexico cannot be driven in the United States, that Canada cannot export soft lumber to the United States, and that Mexico will not accept fructose from the United States. Not only must we resolve these disagreements, we must find also a way to compete and win against both China and Europe. 
 A good starting point would be a shared customs union, with the three countries setting tariff policies in conjunction and protecting each other from improper trade practices by the rest of the world. In addition, the cumbersome ''rules of origin'' laws that affect products made in North America with parts made elsewhere should be thrown out the window. 
 All three partners would gain by closing Mexico's development gap. Clearly Mexico itself must undertake reforms in terms of its energy, fiscal and labor policies (opening its oil industry to foreign investment is an obvious start). But we need help. The poorer nations of Europe benefited for years from compensation funds -- money given by the rich countries to be spent on roads, electricity grids, modernized farms and factories -- that enabled countries like Ireland, Spain and Greece to join the 20th century. Now those former poor relations are important exporters and markets for their European neighbors, and their most enterprising workers are no longer desperate to emigrate. Following the European model would eventually give Canada and the United States a better trading partner to the south, and a more prosperous Mexico would result in less illegal immigration, making cooperation on border security more practical. 
 Finally, the key to achieving all these goals is creating permanent three-party institutions. Meetings like the one last week should be made annual, and the nations' defense, justice and intelligence chiefs should also meet every year to develop a common plan to fight terrorism, drug trafficking and immigrant smuggling. In time, the idea would be to create a permanent North American commission with cabinet-level representatives from each country; it would be charged not only with firming up nuts-and-bolts agreements on trade and security, but also with working toward an eventual goal of a true North American union. 
 Undoubtedly, this level of cooperation would be a hard sell to Americans, who would assume they would have the most to lose. But simply maintaining the status quo will not help the United States maintain its dominance in a changing world. Just as the Bush administration has articulated a radical strategy of military pre-emption in its national security strategy, it needs a similarly bold approach for defending the country's economic future. 
 Maybe, just maybe, the men gathered at the Crawford ranch could some day be seen as the Jean Monnets of their age, the founding fathers of the North American Community.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); TERRORISM (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); TRENDS (62%); AL-QAEDA (60%) United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends; International Relations; International Trade and World Market; Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (87%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); PAUL MARTIN (75%) Rafael Fernandez de Castro; Rossana Fuentes Berain; George W (Pres) Bush; Vicente (Pres) Fox Quesada; Paul (Prime Min) Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) NORTH AMERICA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (94%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%) North America; Canada; Mexico; North America

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005



612 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: With Bush Safely Re-elected, Rove Turns Intensity to Policy

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 27 

 BODY:
Jack Kemp was causing problems for President Bush's drive to overhaul Social Security, and it naturally fell to Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's strategist, enforcer and closet policy expert, to take him on.
 Mr. Kemp, the 1996 Republican vice presidential nominee and a founder of a conservative advocacy group, was publicly attacking an idea floated by the White House to cut benefits in the retirement system and was rallying support for an alternative approach that, on paper, would be pain free. Mr. Kemp's statements exposed a split among Republicans and complicated the administration's efforts to prepare the public for possible benefit cuts.
 After a ceremony several months ago in the White House East Room that Mr. Kemp attended, Mr. Rove sought him out, associates of the two men said. But their exchange was less a scolding by Mr. Rove, they said, than an assertive, detailed argument against Mr. Kemp's favored approach. Mr. Rove, they said, went through a point-by-point critique of the plan and left Mr. Kemp with the message that he considered it unworkable. 
 As Mr. Bush pushes doggedly ahead with his battle to add investment accounts to Social Security, he is betting heavily on Mr. Rove's well-chronicled political skills to build public support, hold Republicans together and overcome intense Democratic opposition. 
 But as the confrontation with Mr. Kemp suggests, Mr. Rove is assuming a more expansive role, bringing the same intensity to the big issues in Mr. Bush's second-term agenda that he brought to the president's re-election campaign. In naming Mr. Rove deputy White House chief of staff for policy last month, on top of his continuing catch-all title of senior adviser, the president formally recognized Mr. Rove's affinity for the nitty-gritty of governance and publicly acknowledged his influence over whatever deal might emerge on Social Security, his No. 1 domestic priority.
 ''All roads lead to Karl,'' said Kenneth J. Duberstein, a Republican lobbyist who was the White House chief of staff under President Ronald Reagan and is now part of Mr. Rove's vast network of informal advisers and intelligence gatherers.
 Under one of his hats, Mr. Rove is running a sophisticated campaign on behalf of the president's Social Security proposals, employing all the components of the national political machine built to re-elect Mr. Bush. Under the other, he is overseeing policy meetings where the administration's senior officials analyze the competing Social Security proposals, bone up on arcane economic concepts and plot how to hit back at the substantive arguments made by people on the other side of the issue.
 Other presidents have had powerful advisers with a hand in both politics and policy. The most-cited model in recent times is James A. Baker III, who had a wide-ranging portfolio in the administrations of Mr. Reagan and Mr. Bush's father, and went from political operative to treasury secretary, to secretary of state, then back to overseeing a presidential campaign. 
 But the intensity of Mr. Rove's involvement in politics and policy makes his current status unusual and gives him remarkably broad authority inside the White House and out. And in giving Mr. Rove his new title, Mr. Bush, freed from the need to think about re-election, seemed to acknowledge what everyone in Washington knows: that in this administration, as in all others, politics and policy are inextricably intertwined.
 ''Karl Rove is the crossing guard at the intersection of policy and politics,'' said Marshall Wittmann, a senior fellow at the centrist Democratic Leadership Council, who previously observed Mr. Rove for years as an aide to Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican, and as legislative director of the Christian Coalition.
 ''He blends political hack and propeller head in a way no one has ever achieved,'' Mr. Wittmann said. ''No one is going to question his political expertise or his policy expertise. The question for him is always one of hubris.''
 The most concrete change stemming from Mr. Rove's additional title may be that he has moved to a prime piece of real estate on the first floor, down the hall from the Oval Office, from a small office on the second floor of the West Wing. Beyond that, at least as administration officials tell it, nothing fundamental has changed in his power or his role, and his additional title does not portend a more aggressive melding of political and policy concerns. Mr. Rove declined to be quoted for this article.
 To outsiders, it is hard to know exactly what to make of Mr. Rove's new role as one of two deputy chiefs of staff (the other, Joe Hagin, is little known outside the White House but is also close to Mr. Bush). After years at Mr. Bush's side -- they met in the 1970's and have worked together closely since before Mr. Bush first ran for governor of Texas in 1994 -- Mr. Rove does not really need a new title to convey his power, especially after guiding the president to a convincing re-election last year. In retaining his title as senior adviser, he in any case has a job broadly defined enough to weigh in on big decisions whenever he wants.
 But on the organization chart, the new post leaves him -- or the half of him that is purely policy -- beneath Andrew H. Card Jr., the chief of staff and one of only two people in the White House (Vice President Dick Cheney being the other) whose power and reach are in the same league as Mr. Rove's.
 ''I count on him to keep me well informed and have me get engaged at the right time to help drive policy recommendations to maturity so the president can consider them,'' Mr. Card said. 
 Beyond his new bureaucratic chores, like allocating time on Mr. Bush's schedule for policy discussions, helping set the president's travel schedule and keeping track of daily policy developments for Mr. Bush and Mr. Card, Mr. Rove participates in a separate set of meetings devoted to Social Security. Twice a week he sits down to plot legislative strategy, and roughly as often participates in high-level meetings about the substantive issues in play. 
 The talk runs from what the latest public polls show to the latest proposals being floated in Congress, participants said. From time to time, they said, Charles P. Blahous, the White House economic team's resident expert on Social Security, gets so detailed and arcane in his presentations that only Mr. Rove can follow him.
 ''He can talk the specifics even with Chuck Blahous,'' Mr. Card said. ''I've never actually seen him correct Chuck, but I have heard him tell Chuck how to explain what he's saying so the rest of us can understand.''
 But while Mr. Rove's policy acumen has helped him expand his portfolio, his influence is derived in large part from the political apparatus he has built up. 
 He plays an important role in deciding where Mr. Bush, Mr. Cheney and other administration officials go as they crisscross the country trying to win public support. He is overseeing an intelligence-gathering effort that closely tracks the positions of every Republican in Congress and makes sure they get phone calls, invitations to the White House, rides on Air Force One or other expressions of support if they come under pressure from the forces battling Mr. Bush over Social Security.
 The work done inside the White House is augmented by the Republican National Committee, now run by Ken Mehlman, who managed Mr. Bush's re-election campaign under Mr. Rove. The committee holds a nationwide databank on Bush supporters that Mr. Rove's team amassed during the election, a treasure trove that Republicans said would be used to mobilize public pressure on Congress when Social Security legislation is taken up.
 Additionally, Mr. Rove is calling on a handful of outside groups to play a substantial, loosely coordinated role in the effort. 
 Every Friday the Republican National Committee holds a meeting on Social Security that is often attended by Barry Jackson, Mr. Rove's deputy in his senior adviser role, who handles much of the day-to-day oversight of the Social Security campaign. Also in attendance are representatives of Progress for America, an advocacy group that is running television commercials supporting Mr. Bush's call for individual accounts in Social Security, and Compass, a business-backed group that is running a grass-roots campaign on behalf of the initiative.
 Although those groups operate independently of the White House, they have close ties to the administration and to Mr. Rove. Compass's campaign is being run by Terry Nelson, who was one of Mr. Rove's top aides as political director of Mr. Bush's re-election campaign. Compass is an offshoot of the Alliance for Worker Retirement Security, which was once run by Mr. Blahous, the Social Security expert. Progress for America recently adopted an advertising strategy used by the Bush campaign, sponsoring traffic reports on radio stations in cities around the country.
 Many Democrats say Mr. Bush and Mr. Rove have reached too far on Social Security and are headed for the first big defeat of their partnership. Republicans have yet to settle their own differences; Mr. Kemp, for one, continues to publicly support the approach Mr. Rove objected to, which is embodied in legislation sponsored by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin and Senator John E. Sununu of New Hampshire.
 And there is grumbling among some Republicans that Mr. Rove has mishandled the Social Security campaign. But Mr. Rove's allies and fans say that he anticipated the difficulties of moving the Social Security debate forward and that he and Mr. Bush remain convinced that they will win in the end.
 ''Anyone who thinks otherwise,'' said Charlie Black, a veteran Republican strategist, ''they're underestimating Karl and they're underestimating the president.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: ''Rove's Roles''As part of his expanded portfolio in the second term, Karl Rove is promoting President Bush's Social Security plan through his dual roles on the policy side and the political side. A look at the levers of influence that Mr. Rove wields.The Policy SideAs deputy chief of staff for policy, his new title, Mr. Rove meets regularly on Social Security with:The head of the National Economic Council, Allan B. Hubbard, and his staff, including Charles P. Blahous, the White House point man on the Social Security plan.The cabinet secretaries and top officials on the issue, including John W. Snow, the treasury secretary, and Joshua B. Bolten, the White House budget director.His nominal boss, Andrew H. Card Jr., the White House chief of staff.Harvey S. Rosen, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers.Candida Wolff, White House director of legislative affairs.The Political SideAs White House political-guru-in-chief, Mr. Rove, as well as his aides, is in constant touch with several other groups in the effort:The Republican National Committee and its head, Ken Mehlman, Mr. Bush's campaign manager in 2004.In Congress, the point people on the issue: Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania and Representative Deborah Pryce of Ohio. Also, the leadership, including House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, House Majority Leader Tom DeLay and Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist.Outside groups supporting Mr. Bush's plan, including the business-backed Compass, Progress for America, and For Our Grandchildren.A network of informal advisers and intelligence gatherers.Research groups involved in the issue, notably the Cato Institute and the Heritage Foundation.State Republican Party organizations, where Mr. Rove has installed operatives.In both roles, Mr. Rove keeps President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney advised of policy options and the political outlook for the Social Security effort.(pg. A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LOBBYING (72%) Social Security (US); Presidential Election of 2004; United States Politics and Government; Presidents and Presidency (US); Social Security (US); Social Security (US)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); CATO INSTITUTE (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%)

PERSON: KARL ROVE (94%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); DICK CHENEY (73%); CHUCK BLAHOUS (58%); DEBORAH PRYCE (58%); RICK SANTORUM (57%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush; Karl Rove

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005



613 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

After Scandals, Companies Crack Down on Misbehavior
Corporations and their boards are holding employees to lofty standards of business and personal behavior in the wake of the collapse of Enron and other companies. The result is a wave of abrupt firings as corporations move to stop perceived breaches of ethics that could result in law enforcement action, or public relations disasters.
 The reach for the moral high ground is driven as much by self-interest as any attempt at righteousness, now that boards and chief executives have seen the damage public scandals can do. [Page A1.]

Qwest Sets a Deadline for MCI Deal
Qwest Communications set an April 5 deadline for MCI to accept or reject its $8.45 billion bid for the company. Richard Notebaert, left, Qwest's chief executive, said in a letter to MCI's board that Qwest would withdraw its offer if an agreement was not reached by then. The letter did not indicate whether Qwest, if spurned by the MCI board, would pursue a proxy vote. Market Place. [C2.]

Airlines Begin to Reduce Seats
Now, rising fuel prices -- up 25 cents a gallon since just mid-February -- are forcing airlines to reduce seats, even though planes are as full as ever. Airlines are beginning to retire less efficient planes. [C9.]

British Invasion at National Enquirer
The National Enquirer is moving its offices to Manhattan from Florida and importing several longtime editors of British tabloids as it expands to better compete with magazines like Us Weekly. [E1.]

Yukos Lawyer Fights Detention
Svetlana Bakhmina, a Russian lawyer, has been in jail since December, accused of helping Yukos, the crippled oil company where she worked, evade taxes. Some say Ms. Bakhmina has become a target simply because she worked for Yukos and its founder, who has been under Kremlin attack. [C6.]

Japan's Unemployment Level Rises
Japan's unemployment rate unexpectedly rose in February and consumer spending declined, indicating the economy has not yet fully emerged from its slowdown. [C10.]

For Some, Hotel Is a Second Home
As extended-stay hotels continue to proliferate around the country, some business travelers are spending so much time in them that they practically form families away from home with fellow guests. [C4.]

Emirates Focuses on the High End
Dubai-based Emirates, unlike many airlines, is making money and buying big new planes. On one route it offers first-class cabins with doors. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C5.]

Photo Costs Hurt Walgreen Profits
Walgreen, one of the nation's largest drugstore chains, reported a 13.7 percent increase in quarterly earnings but missed analysts' estimates. The cost of converting photo-processing labs to a digital format partly offset continued strength in pharmacy sales and a solid holiday shopping season. [C2.]

Drop in Oil Prices Helps Stocks
Stocks gained as oil prices fell. The S.&.P. 500 added 2.86 points, to 1,174.28, led by financial shares. The Dow average rose 42.78 points, to 10,485.65, and the Nasdaq composite rose 1.46 points, to 1,992.52. [C10.]

First Drug Benefit Forms Mailed
The Bush administration has sent out the first of some 20 million applications to low-income people who might qualify for Medicare's new prescription drug benefit. [A10.]

Pitfalls in Branding of Programs
As advertisers insert more marketing messages into entertainment, some are pondering how to handle problems that could slow growth in this area. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C3.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,485.65 up 42.78Nasdaq composite -- 1,992.52 up 1.4610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.64% up 0.04The euro -- $1.2879 up 0.0055The dollar -- 107.14 yen up 0.81Graph tracks share prices of Walgreen for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); SCANDALS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (83%); TAX FRAUD (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ETHICS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); PHOTOFINISHING SERVICES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (64%); PHARMACIES (63%); CONSUMER SPENDING (62%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); CENTURYLINK INC (57%); OAO NK YUKOS (54%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); CTL (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%)

PERSON: RICHARD C NOTEBAERT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005



614 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; PERSONAL HEALTH; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: 'Diabesity,' a Crisis in an Expanding Country

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
I can't understand why we still don't have a national initiative to control what is fast emerging as the most serious and costly health problem in America: excess weight. Are our schools, our parents, our national leaders blind to what is happening -- a health crisis that looms even larger than our former and current smoking habits?
 Just look at the numbers, so graphically described in an eye-opening new book, ''Diabesity: The Obesity-Diabetes Epidemic That Threatens America -- and What We Must Do to Stop It'' (Bantam), by Dr. Francine R. Kaufman, a pediatric endocrinologist, the director of the diabetes clinic at Children's Hospital Los Angeles and a past president of the American Diabetes Association. 
 In just over a decade, she noted, the prevalence of diabetes nearly doubled in the American adult population: to 8.7 percent in 2002, from 4.9 percent in 1990. Furthermore, an estimated one-third of Americans with Type 2 diabetes don't even know they have it because the disease is hard to spot until it causes a medical crisis.
 An estimated 18.2 million Americans now have diabetes, 90 percent of them the environmentally influenced type that used to be called adult-onset diabetes. But adults are no longer the only victims -- a trend that prompted an official change in name in 1997 to Type 2 diabetes.
 More and more children are developing this health-robbing disease or its precursor, prediabetes. Counting children and adults together, some 41 million Americans have a higher-than-normal blood sugar level that typically precedes the development of full-blown diabetes.

'Then Everything Changed'
 And what is the reason for this runaway epidemic? Being overweight or obese, especially with the accumulation of large amounts of body fat around the abdomen. In Dr. Kaufman's first 15 years as a pediatric endocrinologist, 1978 to 1993, she wrote, ''I never saw a young patient with Type 2 diabetes. But then everything changed.'' 
 Teenagers now come into her clinic weighing 200, 300, even nearly 400 pounds with blood sugar levels that are off the charts. But, she adds, we cannot simply blame this problem on gluttony and laziness and ''assume that the sole solution is individual change.'' 
 The major causes, Dr. Kaufman says, are ''an economic structure that makes it cheaper to eat fries than fruit'' and a food industry and mass media that lure children to eat the wrong foods and too much of them. ''We have defined progress in terms of the quantity rather than the quality of our food,'' she wrote.
 Her views are supported by a 15-year study published in January in The Lancet. A team headed by Dr. Mark A. Pereira of the University of Minnesota analyzed the eating habits of 3,031 young adults and found that weight gain and the development of prediabetes were directly related to unhealthful fast food. 
 Taking other factors into consideration, consuming fast food two or more times a week resulted, on average, in an extra weight gain of 10 pounds and doubled the risk of prediabetes over the 15-year period. 
 Other important factors in the diabesity epidemic, Dr. Kaufman explained, are the failure of schools to set good examples by providing only healthful fare, a loss of required physical activity in schools and the inability of many children these days to walk or bike safely to school or to play outside later.
 Genes play a role as well. Some people are more prone to developing Type 2 diabetes than others. The risk is 1.6 times as great for blacks as for whites of similar age. It is 1.5 times as great for Hispanic-Americans, and 2 times as great for Mexican-Americans and Native Americans.
 Unless we change our eating and exercise habits and pay greater attention to this disease, more than one-third of whites, two-fifths of blacks and half of Hispanic people in this country will develop diabetes.
 It is also obvious from the disastrous patient histories recounted in Dr. Kaufman's book that the nation's medical structure is a factor as well. Many people do not have readily accessible medical care, and still many others have no coverage for preventive medicine. As a result, millions fall between the cracks until they are felled by heart attacks or strokes.

A Devastating Disease
 There is a tendency in some older people to think of diabetes as ''just a little sugar,'' a common family problem. They fail to take it seriously and make the connection between it and the costly, crippling and often fatal diseases that can ensue.
 Diabetes, with its consequences of heart attack, stroke, kidney failure, amputations and blindness, among others, already ranks No. 1 in direct health care costs, consuming $1 of every $7 spent on health care.
 Nor is this epidemic confined to American borders. Internationally, ''we are witnessing an epidemic that is the scourge of the 21st century,'' Dr. Kaufman wrote.
 Unlike some other killer diseases, Type 2 diabetes issues an easily detected wake-up call: the accumulation of excess weight, especially around the abdomen. When the average fasting level of blood sugar (glucose) rises above 100 milligrams per deciliter, diabetes is looming. 
 Abdominal fat is highly active. The chemical output of its cells increases blood levels of hormones like estrogen, providing the link between obesity and breast cancer, and decreases androgens, which can cause a decline in libido. As the cells in abdominal fat expand, they also release chemicals that increase fat accumulation, ensuring their own existence.
 The result is an increasing cellular resistance to the effects of the hormone insulin, which enables cells to burn blood sugar for energy. As blood sugar rises with increasing insulin resistance, the pancreas puts out more and more insulin (promoting further fat storage) until this gland is exhausted. Then when your fasting blood sugar level reaches 126 milligrams, you have diabetes.
 Two recent clinical trials showed that Type 2 diabetes could be prevented by changes in diet and exercise. The Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group involving 3,234 overweight adults showed that ''intensive lifestyle intervention'' was more effective than a drug that increases insulin sensitivity in preventing diabetes over three years. 
 The intervention, lasting 24 weeks, trains people to choose low-calorie, low-fat diets; increase activity; and change their habits. Likewise, the randomized, controlled Finnish Diabetes Prevention Study of 522 obese patients showed that introducing a moderate exercise program of at least 150 minutes a week and weight loss of at least 5 percent reduced the incidence of diabetes by 58 percent.
 Many changes are needed to combat this epidemic, starting with schools and parents. Perhaps the quickest changes can be made in the workplace, where people can be encouraged to use stairs instead of elevators; vending machines can be removed or dispense only healthful snacks; and cafeterias can offer attractive healthful fare. Lunchrooms equipped with refrigerators and microwaves will allow workers to bring healthful meals to work.
 Dr. Kaufman tells of a challenge to get fit and lose weight by Caesars Entertainment in which 4,600 workers who completed the program lost a total of 45,000 pounds in 90 days. Others could follow this example.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alex Nabaum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIABETES (96%); OBESITY (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (90%); PEDIATRICS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ENDOCRINOLOGY (89%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); TRENDS (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); EPIDEMICS (75%); SMOKING (72%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (69%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (69%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (60%); FOOD INDUSTRY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN DIABETES ASSOCIATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005



615 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Democracy Falls on Barren Ground

BYLINE: By Elinor Burkett. 
Elinor Burkett, chairwoman of the journalism department at the University of Alaska at Fairbanks, is the author of ''So Many Enemies, So Little Time,'' based on her experiences teaching in Kyrgyzstan from 2001 to 2002.

DATELINE: FAIRBANKS, Alaska 

 BODY:
THE hasty exit of President Askar Akayev of Kyrgyzstan from his capital, Bishkek, last week is being hailed with the same breathless exuberance that greeted Georgia's Rose Revolution in 2003 and the Orange Revolution that brought Viktor Yushchenko to the presidency of Ukraine in November. Democracy is on the march, we are told; yet another despot of the former Soviet world has been cast aside. 
 It's a good story, but I'm afraid that plugging the political upheaval of this poor Central Asian nation into the paradigm du jour is akin to stuffing an elephant into a gorilla skin. 
 Look at the facts. In Georgia, President Eduard Shevardnadze was swept out of power when thousands of organized protesters surged into the Parliament and demanded an end to corruption. In Kyrgyzstan, Mr. Akayev's 15-year reign was endedby a motley crowd of 20,000 who began the day in Bishkek's Ala-Too Square chanting ''Akayev is dirt,'' then moved on to loot not only the main government building -- called the White House -- but also supermarkets, Internet cafes, the wholesale food market, beauty salons and A.T.M.'s. 
 Likewise, Ukrainians rebelled against a rigged election that threatened to install Moscow's favorite in the presidency; but the Kyrgyz mobs that seized the provincial capitals of Osh and Jalalabad before moving on Bishkek weren't demonstrating against the flawed parliamentary elections in February and March. Rather, they were venting their frustration over the grim economic situation of a nation dependent on foreign exchange coming largely from a single gold mine and two foreign military bases, one Russian and one American.
 And while the opposition leaders in Georgia and Ukraine symbolized popular aspirations for true independence and espoused coherent programs, the leaders of the Kyrgyz opposition are all former comrades of Mr. Akayev's who broke with him not because of democratic principles but because of their desire for more power. 
 Kyrgyzstan, then, isn't being reshaped with a velvet glove or by another color-coordinated revolution (some say yellow, others pink). The underlying conflicts in Central Asia are more economic and regional than political -- and more likely to be worsened than relieved by the current instability.
 Southern Kyrgyzstan -- mired in traditional clan politics, steeped in a near-secular brand of Islam and heavily influenced by its Uzbek minority -- is the cradle of this so-called revolution, and it has long chafed at the domination of the more Russified, industrialized north. Southerners streamed into Bishkek by the hundreds last week, laying claim to a greater share of the meager national pie. 
 But the new leadership is unlikely to provide them with much satisfaction, since neither of the regional elites have ever demonstrated much concern for the people. The northern haute monde flies off to resorts in Turkey with the cash earned from dominance over industry; the southern inner circle builds mansions with the dollars it siphons from the drug traffic between Afghanistan and Russia. Meanwhile, the median national income is under a dollar a day, and unemployment in many regions reaches 50 percent.
 The new acting president, Kurmanbek Bakiyev, served as President Akayev's prime minister until he was forced from office by public sentiment in 2002 after government troops broke up a peaceful demonstration in the village of Aksy by shooting into the crowd, killing at least five people. 
 Many Western observers were heartened when Mr. Bakiyev named as foreign minister Roza Otunbayeva, who has held the job twice before. I don't share the optimism. Ms. Otunbayeva's main qualification before entering diplomacy was serving as head of the Department of Dialectical Materialism at Kyrgyz State University, a job she got because of the excellence of her doctoral dissertation, ''Criticism Regarding the Falsification of Marxist-Leninist Dialectics by the Frankfurt School.'' 
 And even Felix Kulov, the opposition leader who was released from prison last week to great cheers from the West, has few credentials to bolster his democratic pretensions. As deputy interior minister during the final days of the Soviet Union, he commanded troops that killed dozens of protesters who had stormed a police station. He has again been put in charge of the country's security forces.
 Not only are the heads of the opposition parties bickering among themselves, but two rival parliaments -- one with the backing of the Supreme Court, the other with the support of the national election commission -- have been meeting on different floors of the same building and laying equal claim to represent the people. 
 As the wealthy and ambitious jockey for power, the people of Bishkek are digging out and blaming the self-styled rebels from the south for the destruction of their city, heaping contempt on what they deem an illiterate peasantry.The long-standing divide between the two halves of the country -- linked by a single, often impassable road over the mountains -- has been ratcheted up. Few in Kyrgyzstan are basking in the glow of hope that lighted up Ukraine in December. As one friend in Bishkek said in a recent e-mail message to me: ''This is not a democracy. This is just a crowd.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTION FRAUD (75%); TRENDS (74%); CORRUPTION (69%); RELIGION (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (54%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (51%) Politics and Government; Freedom and Human Rights; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (58%) Elinor Burkett; Askar (Pres) Akayev

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (68%) ALASKA, USA (79%) KYRGYZSTAN (96%); UKRAINE (95%); GEORGIA (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ASIA (92%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%) Kyrgyzstan; Russia; Kyrgyzstan

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005



616 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 34 words

 BODY:

YEN DECLINES -- The dollar climbed against the yen on speculation that economic growth in the United States is outpacing Japan and Germany. Against the yen, the dollar rose to 107.14 in New York from 106.33.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the yen to the dollar, since October 2003. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAPANESE YEN (89%); US DOLLAR (88%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (86%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005



617 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Health & Fitness; ESSAY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Bread and Shelter, Yes. Psychiatrists, No.

BYLINE: By SALLY SATEL, M.D.. 
Sally Satel is a psychiatrist and resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute and a co-author of a new book, ''One Nation Under Therapy: How the Helping Culture Is Eroding Self-Reliance.''

 BODY:
Days after the tsunami struck South Asia, American mental health workers flew to Sri Lanka to offer counseling services to grief-stricken victims.
 ''Psychological scarring needs to be dealt with as quickly as possible,'' one psychologist told The Washington Post in January. ''The longer we wait, the more danger.'' 
 Sri Lankan health officials saw things slightly differently. They discouraged aid agencies that offered to send counselors to their country. 
 '''We believe the most important thing is to strengthen local coping mechanisms rather than imposing counseling,'' Dr. Athula Sumathipala, chief of the psychosocial desk at the Sri Lankan government's Center for National Operations, told The New York Times the same month. 
 I found the contrast between the two men particularly striking because I had recently gone to Rome to attend an international conference on trauma. The conference, titled ''Project One Billion,'' was organized by Dr. Richard Mollica, a psychiatrist at Harvard, under the auspices of the World Bank, the World Health Organization, and humanitarian nonprofit organizations. The United States also provided support.
 ''One billion'' signified the number of people worldwide, roughly one in six, suffering the psychological consequences of war, torture and terrorism. And though these people suffered human-caused horror rather than natural disaster, the question still applies: can outsiders bearing therapy provide meaningful help in times of crisis?
 One thing is clear. Even before strife ripped these societies apart, many of them had pitiful mental health systems. According to the W.H.O., most developing countries have fewer than 1 psychiatrist per 100,000 people; in rural areas, the gap is even larger. The entire country of Rwanda has only one psychiatrist. (The United States has about 14 psychiatrists per every 100,000 people; England has about 4 per 100,000.)
 Experts at the conference emphasized four undertreated mental conditions: psychoses (mainly schizophrenia), major depression, drug and alcohol abuse, and epilepsy (a neurological disorder often treated by psychiatrists). They noted that depression and drug and alcohol abuse increased in the aftermath of violence and destabilization. When they spoke of post-traumatic stress disorder, on the other hand, it was more as a nod to the organizing theme of the meeting. 
 True, suffering was abundant -- ''We cannot dry our tears,'' said one African representative -- but psychiatry was not the obvious answer.
 It would not be the first time that psychological aid was regarded by non-Western recipients as a kind gesture but a bad fit. For the last 15 years or so, humanitarian workers have been exporting the concept of post-traumatic stress disorder and trauma counseling around the globe. 
 They have rushed in to impose Western ''debriefing'' -- a group therapy technique intended to get victims to express their feelings about a horrific event and to relive it as vividly as they can -- without regard to the needs of the victims, their natural healing systems or their very conception of what mental illness might be. 
 Indeed, as literature from CARE International put it during the Balkan conflict: ''Almost everyone in Kosovo will consider her- or himself traumatized.'' 
 But is this true? 
 Several years ago, a resettlement project run by the United States government for Albanian Kosovars at Fort Dix, N.J., was staffed with mental health specialists prepared to treat high rates of post-traumatic stress disorder among the refugees. Those expectations were not met, observed Elzbieta Gozdziak, an anthropologist at Georgetown University who was part of the team. ''Only 7 of the 3,000 refugees were found to need psychiatric care,'' Dr. Gozdziak said.
 Indeed, many program evaluations reveal that actual use of specialized psychological help is typically low. 
 Kenneth Miller, a psychologist in the Bosnian Mental Health Program in Chicago, saw much suffering among his clients -- they had been placed in concentration camps before migrating to the United States -- yet the most successful feature of his program was not therapy, which most clients rejected anyway. It was practical help like education and job training.
 Dr. Elie Karam, a psychiatrist at the Institute for Development, Research and Applied Care in Beirut, who attended Project One Billion, similarly concluded that post-traumatic stress disorder was not a major issue. 
 ''What we found was that the violence served as a catalyst for the destabilizing effects of pre-existing problems in people's lives such as poverty, marital discord, physical illness,'' Dr. Karam said.
 Project One Billion reflected this philosophy. Debriefing, Dr. Mollica stated, has been discredited in clinical trials.
 In its place, he strongly urged that Western mental health workers collaborate with indigenous healers. The W.H.O. now instructs aid workers to ''listen, convey compassion, assure basic physical needs, not force talking, and provide or mobilize company preferably from family or significant others.'' 
 Notably, mental health advisers acknowledge that local economic and social recovery is a prerequisite for improved psychology, not a consequence of it. As Dr. Mollica put it, ''the best antidepressant is a job.'' 
 The very same week that Project One Billion took place, a ''Dare to Act'' conference was held in Baltimore. Supported by federal tax dollars, the conference promoted an inward-looking ''trauma paradigm,'' holding that childhood and adult traumatic experiences lie at the root of most psychopathology. 
 A colleague of mine who works with Bosnians, Hmong and Somali refugees told me he was asked by organizers of the conference to provide a refugee woman to talk about ''her trauma'' at the conference. 
 He asked around but couldn't find one. ''They don't want to think of themselves as victims,'' he said. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tsunami survivors in India. What disaster victims need most are basic services and jobs, some health officials say. (Photo by Amit Bhargava/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); PSYCHIATRY (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); DEPRESSION (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TSUNAMIS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TERRORISM (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); EPILEPSY (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (65%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (61%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (52%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SRI LANKA (94%); ASIA (91%); INDIA (79%); RWANDA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005



618 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: MEMO PAD

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:

DIVERGING FORTUNES -- Major airlines lost nearly one-third of their full-time work force in the last four years, while jobs at low-cost carriers rebounded, according to data released yesterday by the Transportation Department. The number of people employed full time by network carriers fell 31 percent in January, to 273,305, from the month in 2001, the Bureau of Transportation Statistics at the department said. During the same period, the number of full-time workers at budget carriers rose 15 percent, to 68,089.

HIRING A PRIVATE JET -- CitationShares, a fractional-share jet provider, said yesterday that its Vector JetCard service now offers flight time in increments of 20 hours, five hours less than the industry's standard minimum. With jet cards, customers buy flight time on corporate jets but avoid the complications of full or fractional ownership. The new program ''reduces the barriers to entry'' for those who want to fly corporate jets, ''with less commitment in terms of both flight time and expense,'' said CitationShares, which is jointly owned by the Cessna Aircraft Company unit of Textron and TAG Aviation. The cheapest 20-hour Vector JetCard is $75,995 for 20 hours' time on a five-passenger, 1,400-mile-range Citation CJ1. The most expensive is $119,995 for 20 hours on an eight-passenger, 2,100-mile-range Citation Excel, a spokeswoman said. A competitor, the industry-leading jet-card provider, Marquis Jet, offers 25-hour cards that start at $109,900 for the seven-passenger, 2,000-mile-range Citation Ultra and go to $339,900 for the 14-passenger Gulfstream V, which has a range of about 6,000 miles. At the top of the scale, meanwhile, Marquis Jet announced last week a new service, M Club, that will allow up to 100 new members to pay $125,000 toward flight time in the top-end Boeing Business Jet, which has 1,000 square feet of cabin space, including two bedrooms and two and a half bathrooms. That jet costs $15,696 an hour, plus tax, a Marquis spokesman said.

LIVE TV OVER THE OCEAN -- Starting in June, Singapore Airlines plans to add four channels of live English-language television programming to its Connexion by Boeing high-speed Internet service. In the United States, carriers including JetBlue and Song offer live television on domestic flights, but Singapore said its service would be the first on transoceanic flights. Connexion by Boeing, currently on 53 long-range aircraft on various airlines, gives passengers access for a fee to broadband Internet service via their laptops, which will be used for the initial TV offerings. Eventually, Singapore said, live television will be available on passengers' in-seat video screens. ''The strategy has been to get this big pipeline into the aircraft and evolve it from Internet service,'' said Stan Deal, the vice president for commercial airline business at Connexion by Boeing. ''Live TV is a much wider market that will be integrated into the existing Internet service'' with a simple onboard upgrade in software, he said.

REDEEMING MILES FOR HOTELS -- Responding to growing concern throughout the industry about the availability of free-flight awards using frequent-flier mileage, the American Airlines division of AMR said yesterday that it had begun an online mileage-redemption program offering a way for its AAdvantage members to ''redeem miles for awards other than flights'' -- for a fee. A Web site, www.redeemAAmiles.points.com, allows AAdvantage members to redeem miles directly for hotel stays or convert miles into loyalty points in other nonairline programs. Each award redemption costs $25, American said. JOE SHARKEY


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Transportation Department reported yesterday that employment at low-cost carriers like Southwest Airlines rose 15 percent from January 2001 to January of this year. (Photo by William Thomas Cain/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); AIR FARES (78%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (60%); BROADBAND (60%) Airlines and Airplanes; Labor; Unemployment; Hiring and Promotion; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Television; Airlines and Airplanes; Computers and the Internet; English Language; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: BOEING CO (84%); CESSNA AIRCRAFT CO (68%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS (57%) Transportation Department (US); Citationshares Holding; Cessna Aircraft Co; Tag Aviation Usa Inc; Singapore Airlines; Boeing Co; Connexion (Internet Service); American Airlines

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%); C6L (SGX) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (68%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE (94%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005



619 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE ROAD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Emirates Favors Luxury in an Era of Cuts

BYLINE: By Joe Sharkey. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

DATELINE: SEATTLE, March 25 

 BODY:
Why is this man smiling? He runs an airline, for Pete's sake.
 In fact, Sheik Ahmed bin Saeed Al-Maktoum, the chairman of the Dubai-based Emirates Group, which owns Emirates airline, has reason to be feeling optimistic, unlike his colleagues in the United States at least, where some major airlines are starting to see themselves as dinosaurs lurching toward the tar pits. 
 Emirates, which began its first service in the United States last June with flights between New York and Dubai, makes money. For the 2004 fiscal year, the airline reported a 73.5 percent increase in profit, to $429 million, on $3.6 billion in revenue. For the 2005 fiscal year ending this month, the airline has said it anticipates about a 25 percent increase in profit, despite soaring oil prices. 
 Emirates, which says it is not subsidized by its owner, the government of Dubai, is also on a $28 billion buying binge for big airplanes. While airlines in the United States have desperately retired big planes to the aviation boneyards in the deserts of the Southwest, Emirates has gobbled up new long-range airliners from both of the major manufacturers, Boeing and Airbus, and brought them home to the desert of Dubai. As quickly as they can be delivered, the planes are being put into service on a network that now encompasses 77 destinations in 54 countries.
 Sheik Ahmed came to Seattle, Boeing's headquarters, to buy another couple of new planes: two 777-300ER's, the first of 10 of that long-range model due for delivery to Emirates this year, and the initial installment of a total of 30 to be delivered by 2007. 
 Emirates, which began operations with two planes in 1985 and which expects to take delivery of one new long-range jet each month for the next six years, is also a major customer for Airbus's A340 aircraft, and it was the initial customer for the ultra-long-range A340-500 aircraft in late 2003. It has the biggest order by far -- 45 planes -- for the superjumbo 450-to-850-seat Airbus A380 double-decker aircraft, which is still in development and will start joining its fleet next year.
 International air travel demand is expected to increase robustly for the foreseeable future, and more American business travelers than ever are finding themselves contemplating longer trips to more faraway places. Increasingly, major airlines -- including financially struggling domestic giants like AMR's American, UAL's United and Northwest -- are having to compete with well-heeled international carriers like Emirates. As competition grows, so does the length of some flights. Last summer, Singapore Airlines started the world's longest nonstop, 181/2 hours between Singapore and New York.
 For Emirates, as for its top-level competitors like Singapore, Cathay Pacific, British Airways and others, the real race in long-haul travel is largely a competition for onboard service, whatever the marginal differences in fares.
 Since its inception, Emirates has deliberately marketed itself to travelers who like to fly in comfort, wherever they are sitting.
 ''We are very much focused on the high-yield passenger,'' Sheik Ahmed said during an interview at a downtown hotel after a ceremony at Boeing for the delivery of the new planes. Still, like its top-niche foreign competitors, and unlike most airlines in the United States, Emirates has spent money on roomier coach cabins with premium amenities like in-seat video monitors. 
 ''We are not ignoring the back of the aircraft because that is one part of the business that is not affected by any crisis,'' Sheik Ahmed said. ''Even though they pay less, those people are very determined to travel. Whenever there's a crisis, the first things you will see hit are first class and business class travel. So that's why we try to focus on providing good service in all three classes, including economy. It costs us more, but we win loyalty.''
 Emirates planned to start nonstop service to San Francisco and Houston this year, but that has been delayed because of the turmoil in oil prices. This year, he said, the airline will concentrate more on its service between New York and Dubai, probably adding a second daily flight. 
 As international competition grows and more foreign airlines join the fray, long-haul carriers are locked in escalating battles that often turn on service. It never ends, said Sheik Ahmed, who said that he believed that the demand for the most expensive seats -- like the current walk-up round-trip fare of $9,828 for a first-class seat between New York and Dubai -- continues to grow strongly.
 Not many years ago, British Airways shook up premium service when it introduced seats that folded down flat into beds. Competitors quickly matched the move. Next came in-flight entertainment systems that now routinely offer hundreds of on-demand choices on personal monitors.
 ''It's always something,'' said Sheik Ahmed. On the New York-to-Dubai route, for example, Emirates now offers private cabins in first class. With doors.
 ''You can have complete isolation,'' Sheik Ahmed said. ''When you want to have a meal, you have room service. You pick up your phone and order whatever you want on the menu.''
 What about the A380, with a huge capacity that conjures up the probability that at least some airlines will turn them into cattle cars? Emirates is already committed to the configuration and design for its initial batch of A380s, which will carry fewer than 500 passengers in three classes.
 The major first-class innovation will be a cabin with a shower. ''A full shower, with space for dressing,'' Sheik Ahmed said.
 Are any competitors planning to top that?
 ''Not so far,'' he said.

On the Road appears each Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (64%) Airlines and Airplanes; Company and Organization Profiles; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: EMIRATES GROUP (93%); BOEING CO (56%); AIRBUS SAS (55%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Emirates Group; Emirates Airlines

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%); C6L (SGX) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (55%)

PERSON: Ahmed Bin Saeed Al-Maktoum (Sheik); Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (87%) Dubai

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005



620 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: A New Place for Airlines to Cut: Seats

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
Big airlines have complained over the last few years that the industry was awash in seats. But despite deep financial losses, none of them wanted to reduce capacity, given the heavy demand for travel. 
 Now, rising fuel prices -- up 25 cents a gallon since just mid-February -- are forcing airlines to act, even though planes are as full as ever. Along with raising fares, the big airlines are beginning to retire less efficient planes and reduce domestic service. 
 Passengers, who have enjoyed extraordinary bargains on tickets this decade, are paying as a result, both in higher fares and in fewer seats, as the airlines rethink service on routes that are especially unprofitable. 
 The situation is putting even more airline jobs at risk, on top of more than 100,000 lost this decade. But the airlines say they have no alternative. 
 ''We don't have a choice in the way we react to this economic stress,'' John P. Tague, executive vice president for marketing and sales at United Airlines, a unit of UAL, said yesterday.
 Philip A. Baggaley, an airline industry analyst with Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, said the cuts were indicative of the pressure that the airlines are under. 
 ''I think we are going to see some pretty grim first-quarter results,'' Mr. Baggaley said.
 The exception is among low-fare airlines, including Southwest and JetBlue, which have aggressive growth plans despite the spike in fuel prices. Those two airlines are somewhat sheltered because of hedging contracts. 
 But several big airlines -- including United, Northwest Airlines, Continental Airlines and American Airlines, a unit of AMR -- have announced plans to freeze or reduce the number of seats available on domestic flights this year, which is the way the industry defines capacity.
 The overall capacity of some airlines will still rise, because they are shifting aircraft to overseas flights. 
 For example, United, which has been in bankruptcy protection since December 2002, is cutting seats within the United States by 12 percent, even as it expands its flights overseas with new routes to Asia and Latin America. 
 Still, United has cut its fleet by 69 planes since last summer and shifted some to its low-fare airline, Ted, and its regional carrier, United Express. 
 Meanwhile, American and Continental have each said they would cut domestic seats by about 1 percent, although both plan to grow internationally.
 Northwest, which planned to expand its capacity by 2 percent to 3 percent this year, instead said earlier this month that its 2005 capacity would be flat with 2004. The airline said it planned to retire 30 aircraft, including 24 of its aging McDonnell-Douglas DC-9 jets, some of which are more than 30 years old. That announcement meant the loss of 130 mechanics' jobs in the Minneapolis area, where Northwest is based; the airline said it could cut another 800 jobs later this year.
 Delta is retiring 24 of its Boeing 737 planes, but its seat capacity will grow 5 percent to 6 percent this year, largely because it is also expanding its overseas flights. Delta has also restructured its domestic schedules and operating procedures to wring more out of its remaining aircraft.
 Still, American's chief executive, Gerard J. Arpey, recently predicted that the industry would be forced to cut more seat capacity because of high fuel prices, which have already prompted three rounds of fare increases.
 Airlines paid a record $1.62 a gallon for jet fuel during the week of March 24, according to the Energy Department. That is up 25 cents since mid-February and is a third higher than the airlines paid at this time last year. The airlines used 18.7 billion gallons of fuel last year.
 Raymond Neidl, an airline industry analyst with Calyon Securities USA, said the higher fuel prices were forcing airlines to rethink their route structures. ''You can't justify marginal flying at these fuel prices unless you can get it in ticket prices,'' Mr. Neidl said, ''and that's never going to happen.''
 Passengers are already finding themselves flying on smaller planes, like regional jets, as airlines reduce seats between some cities. 
 For example, Northwest has cut seats from Minneapolis to Kalamazoo, Mich., by 29 percent in 2005 compared with last year, according to an estimate by Back Aviation Solutions, an industry consulting firm. Northwest is offering 28 percent fewer seats from Memphis to Louisville, Ky., and 27 percent fewer seats from Detroit to Kansas City, Mo., than it did last year.
 Meanwhile, United has reduced seats between Denver and Indianapolis by 58 percent in 2005. It is offering 46 percent fewer seats between Buffalo and Chicago O'Hare and 37 percent fewer between Miami and O'Hare, Back Aviation's numbers showed.
 ''Passengers will find that in certain markets, there will certainly be less seats available,'' Michael Allen, the chief operating officer at Back Aviation, said.
 Yet, some analysts wonder if the cuts will be temporary. Airlines significantly reduced seats after the September 2001 attacks, parking hundreds of planes on desert storage lots. Many of those planes returned to use when passengers returned.
 And the airlines could have acted much sooner, given that jet fuel prices hit previous records last year, Mr. Baggaley said. But he said the carriers thought one or more of their rivals might fail, which would take care of the capacity problem.
 Since that has not happened, airlines are being forced to begin attacking capacity issues themselves. Said Mr. Tague: ''We're not holding our breath that someone else's failure is going to lead to our success.''
 Even as the big airlines cut, the low-fare companies are expanding. Southwest plans to grow by about 10 percent this year, including service to Pittsburgh that starts next month, while JetBlue will take delivery late this year on the first of dozens of new 100-seat regional jets.
 Said Mr. Baggaley: ''It's too soon to declare victory yet'' over excess seats.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 30, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Business Day yesterday with an article about a reduction in seats available on domestic airline flights misidentified a jet flown by Northwest Airlines, which is retiring 24 of its DC-9 aircraft. It was a CRJ-200, not a DC-9. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Northwest plans to retire 24 of its DC-9 aircraft, like the one above, as well as 6 other planes
 130 mechanics' jobs will be eliminated. (Photo by Jim Mone/Associated Press)Chart: ''Pricing Pressure''Airlines are looking for ways to pass rising expenses along to consumers, especially the cost of jet fuel.Graph tracks New York Harbor price for jet fuel from 2000-2005.(Source by Energy Information Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); AIR FARES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIR SERVICE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (90%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (68%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (91%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (68%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (68%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005



621 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Elmira Journal; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: A City Looks to the Skies, Proud of Its Own Astronaut

BYLINE: By MICHELLE YORK

DATELINE: ELMIRA, N.Y. 

 BODY:
In the summer, people here turn their eyes toward the heavens to watch small planes glide through the sky, floating on currents of air. 
 The planes are engineless and stay aloft by riding the warm updrafts that rise throughout the surrounding Chemung Valley, which has long been a popular spot for engineless flight. 
 Among those who have gazed up in wonder is Eileen Collins. It was at a park on one of the region's highest hilltops, Harris Hill, where Ms. Collins went to summer camp as a child, watched the glider planes take off and made up her mind that she wanted to fly. 
 Today, Ms. Collins, who is 48, is an astronaut. In May, if all goes according to NASA's schedule, she will be the commander of the first space shuttle mission since the Columbia disaster two years ago. 
 The people of Elmira, about 240 miles northwest of Manhattan, have promised to again look toward the sky -- this time for her.
 ''In terms of local heroes, we've got Mark Twain and Eileen Collins,'' said Dennis O'Connell, a founder of the Elmira-Corning Astronomical Society, adding, ''You can probably throw Hilfiger in, too.'' 
 With all due respect to Tommy Hilfiger, the clothing designer who grew up here, and Mark Twain, who wrote his best-known works at his sister-in-law's farm overlooking the valley, these days it is Ms. Collins who is making Elmira swell with pride. 
 Her career in space has helped people recall the region's place in aviation history.
 Early enthusiasts of engineless flight found that Harris Hill had the right topographical mix. The windswept ridge, standing 800 feet above the valley, is an ideal takeoff spot for lightweight planes made of fabric or fiberglass. 
 Starting in 1930, America's first national soaring competitions were held here. During World War II, the region was a training ground for pilots who used gliders as a means to transport troops.
 Lightweight planes have been part of the local scenery ever since, and they are what inspired Ms. Collins. She grew up in a modest family, working part-time jobs to pay for flying lessons. 
 NASA officials said last week that they were no longer granting interviews with Ms. Collins because it was too close to the scheduled launch date. But in an e-mailed statement, Ms. Collins said she was proud of having grown up in Elmira.
 ''My love of flight and exploration was nurtured there,'' she said. ''I hope future generations of children can have similar experiences which inspire them to choose careers in aviation and space.''
 Ms. Collins's pursuit of a higher education coincided with the Air Force's decision to start accepting women for pilot training. She was among the first accepted, and her career quickly advanced. Eventually, she became a flight instructor and a test pilot.
 She was accepted by NASA into the astronaut program in 1990. Five years later, she became the first woman to pilot a shuttle to a rendezvous with the Russian space station Mir. In 1999, she again made history as the first woman to command a shuttle mission when Columbia deployed the Chandra X-Ray Observatory.
 Today, her accomplishments are detailed in exhibits mixed in with vintage planes at the National Soaring Museum, which stands next to a glider's club on Harris Hill. 
 On the day of the shuttle launching, which is scheduled for May 15, a large turnout is expected at the museum to watch a satellite broadcast of the Discovery's blastoff. 
 Each year, the museum sponsors the Eileen Collins summer camp, which teaches children about flight. ''In such an economically depressed area, kids might not have the same experiences big-city kids have, and here's a local girl from Elmira, like any other person, who took that and built on it,'' said Norman Smith, the museum's director. ''And here she is today -- an astronaut.''
 At nearby Corning Community College, where Ms. Collins was a student, another crowd is expected to gather at an observatory that is named after her. ''We're going to have friends and fans who will watch and salute,'' said Lawrence J. Josbeno, an associate professor of physics at the community college. 
 But Professor Josbeno will not be among them. He has been invited by NASA to attend the launching at Cape Canaveral in Florida.
 ''I'll be excited to see it lift off,'' he said. ''But I'll be even more excited when she is back.'' 
 Ms. Collins will command six crew members on the Discovery's mission to the international space station. In a recent interview with National Public Radio, she said was confident of the mission's safety and did not consider herself a person who takes great risks. 
 Referring to the people who will monitor the shuttle's mission, Ms. Collins promised, ''You won't be bored.''
 Students at her former high school, Elmira Free Academy, will be among the mission's followers, said a school counselor, Terry Nicklaus, who keeps a signed picture of Ms. Collins on her office wall. Because of Ms. Collins's reputation, more students take high-level math and science courses today, Ms. Nicklaus said.
 Among the students who will watch the Discovery launch is Susan E. Goldman, 15, who attended the Eileen Collins camp two years ago to stave off boredom and then got hooked on flying. Today, she is a junior member of the Harris Hill Glider's Club.
 Referring to Ms. Collins, she says, ''When I joined the juniors, a lot of them were guys, but she shows that women can be successful, too.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Young visitors at the National Soaring Museum in Elmira, situated on one of the region's highest hills, took turns recently in the cockpit of a competition glider. The exhibits describe Eileen Collins's accomplishments. (Photo by Bill Wingell for The New York Times)
 Eileen Collins will command the space shuttle mission in May. (Photo by Joe Skipper/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); AIR FORCES (78%); CHILDREN (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); SPACECRAFT (69%); MILITARY TRAINING (66%); WORLD WAR II (62%); FASHION DESIGNERS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005



622 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: For Long-Term Guests, Hotels Are a Second Home

BYLINE: By MELINDA LIGOS

 BODY:
On Palm Sunday, Kay Severs attended an Easter party, complete with an egg hunt and a visit from the Easter Bunny. She did not celebrate with relatives and friends, however, but with a mismatched group of business executives, athletes, nurses and other adults from all parts of the United States.
 Ms. Severs, a traveling nurse from Bradenton, Fla., is a long-term guest at the Oakwood Marina Del Rey, an extended-stay hotel that is within walking distance of Venice Beach, Calif. ''It beats hanging out alone in your room,'' she said about the party. Since she checked into the property on Jan. 20 to work a stint in the emergency room of a local hospital, she has attended a number of such events, mingling with other guests at hotel-sponsored events ranging from bingo parties to Oscar night celebrations to Wednesday evening cooking classes.
 As extended-stay hotels continue to proliferate across the country, some business travelers are spending so much time in them that they practically form families away from home with fellow guests. Better yet, they are discovering the hotel staffs are often under strict instructions to pamper them, and they say they are enjoying the extra attention. 
 The supply of long-stay lodging has surged over the last seven years, increasing 2.4 percent last year to 245,357 rooms and more than doubling from 107,000 rooms in 1997, according to the Highland Group, a hospitality consulting firm in Atlanta. And demand has been picking up even more lately, according to Smith Travel Research, growing by 4.9 percent in 2004, the fastest rate since 2000, and surpassing the 4.6 percent jump reported for the overall hotel industry. 
 What is driving the trend? Tight corporate budgets, for one thing. Rates are typically 30 percent lower than those charged by traditional brand-name hotels, specialists say, and the savings increase the longer a guest stays. For instance, a suite at the Residence Inn at the Depot in downtown Minneapolis typically goes for $169 a night, but guests who stay 30 days or longer pay about $89, said Lori Geiwitz, general manager at the 130-suite property. Even better, many of the hotels throw in one or more meals as part of the price. For example, at the Residence Inn, guests are served made-to-order breakfasts and light evening meals with wine and beer.
 ''The fact that we offer meals is a great cost-savings feature for companies,'' Ms. Geiwitz said. ''It's what gives us a competitive edge.''
 Another reason for the surge in popularity of extended-stay hotels is that as hiring rebounds, more companies are willing to pay to relocate new employees or send them to training for weeks at a time, said Leo Henggeler, a regional vice president at the Oakwood Marina del Rey. Oakwood manages 41 extended-stay properties throughout the United States. Mr. Henggeler says his company is seeing a ''dramatic increase'' in the number of business executives who are being put up by their companies while looking for a new home.
 He has also noticed a similar increase in the number of consultants and independent contractors. Ms. Severs, for example, is on assignment for a temporary employment agency, which is picking up her hotel bill. While their employers are able to reduce expenses by using a residential hotel, the benefits for the guests fall mostly in the warm-and-fuzzy category. Employees at many of these hotels are trained to help business guests stave off homesickness (the typical guest at an economy-priced extended stay facility stays for 42 days, according to a Highland Group study), and are often quick to respond to special requests, like moving furniture or bringing in special appliances.
 At Homewood Suites by Hilton Colorado Springs-North, an extended-stay hotel with 127 suites that has a view of Pike's Peak, business guests ''often find a haven from loneliness,'' said Tami Long, the general manager. 
 At the Residence Inn at the Depot in Minneapolis, where 65 percent of the guests stay five nights or more and some for a year or longer, hotel employees are trained to ask guests personal questions, such as when their birthday is or how many children they have. They are also conditioned to respond to requests from guests to make their rooms homier. ''I can't tell you how many times we've been asked to go out and buy humidifiers, blenders and Crock-Pots,'' Ms. Geiwitz said. Hotel employees will also go grocery shopping for guests, free. The typical guest at the property is a middle-age male traveling by himself, Ms. Geiwitz said, ''who is away from home and might need a little T.L.C.''
 ''Our job is to befriend these people by carrying on day-to-day conversations,'' she said. ''They don't have anybody else to ask them how their day is as they come in the door.''
 Don Hodel just checked out of the Homewood Suites by Hilton Colorado Springs-North after spending nearly a year there while working as the president of Focus on the Family, a Christian ministry located nearby. While Mr. Hodel traveled with his wife, Barbara, and the couple returned to their home in Silverthorne, Colo., on weekends, he said they still felt homesick, especially at the beginning. Mr. Hodel and his wife took advantage of free evening meals, such as Salisbury steak and lasagna, and also brought items from home, including their comforters, to make their suite more homey.
 But it was the staff's interest in the couple's everyday life that made the long stint away from home bearable, he said. ''They would sit down with us at breakfast, and they started inviting us to staff holiday parties,'' said Mr. Hodel, who served in the Reagan administration as energy and interior secretary. ''We really were treated like family.''
 When the Hodels checked out of the hotel earlier this year, Ms. Long said she sat down with the couple, ''and we all cried.'' 
 ''We've developed a relationship I feel will last for many years,'' added Ms. Long, who said she expects to visit the couple in their home this summer.
 Ms. Severs has had similar experiences traveling to extended-stay hotels throughout the country as a nurse who accepts short-term assignments. The hospitals who employ her pick up all of her traveling costs, and typically put her up in extended-stay lodgings, often in a two-room suite with a roommate. Ms. Severs said she liked the accommodations better than traditional hotels, mainly because of the camaraderie. At the Oakwood Marina del Rey, where she will stay until the end of April, a full-time activities director keeps guests busy when they get home from work. A few weeks ago, Ms. Severs attended a movie night for guests that featured a showing of ''The Matrix.'' This week, she planned to attend a class to learn how to prepare shepherd's pie.
 ''After I stay somewhere for a while, there's inevitably a couple of people who start asking me how I'm doing,'' she said. Her suite has a fireplace, which she and a recent roommate, another nurse, use while chatting in the evenings before bed. ''It's real nice -- you don't feel so anonymous in this type of setting,'' she said.
 A businessman who had been staying at the Residence Inn at the Depot apparently felt the same way, Ms. Geiwitz said. In December, after staying at the property for nearly a year, he tipped 40 of the hotel's employees $50 each. ''He was a single man, and it was clear that he really felt like we were his friends,'' Ms. Geiwitz said. ''It was very touching.''

Readers are invited to send stories about business travel experiences to businesstravel@nytimes.com.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Oakwood Marina Del Rey, an extended-stay hotel in California, held an Easter party for guests on Palm Sunday. More companies are booking their employees at such hotels, which offer personalized services. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EASTER SEASON (92%); HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); BUDGETS (88%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LODGING (76%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); TRENDS (73%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); BEER & ALE (62%); RELOCATIONS (61%) Hotels and Motels; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Hotels and Motels

COMPANY: RESIDENCE INN (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Highland Group; Smith Travel Research

PERSON: Melinda Ligos

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005



623 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Shares Gain as Drop in Oil Prices Eases Inflation Worries

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks gained yesterday as oil prices fell, easing concern that higher energy costs will slow economic growth and feed inflation.
 SunGard Data Systems, whose software handles most Nasdaq Stock Market trades, had the biggest rally in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index after seven buyout firms agreed to acquire the company for $10.4 billion. The stock surged $2.81, or 8.9 percent, to $34.36. ''The economy is doing well and corporations are doing well,'' said Denny Engleman, senior trader at E*Trade Capital Markets in Chicago. ''The purchase of SunGard is telling you that companies are really awash with cash.'' 
 The S.&P. 500 added 2.86 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,174.28, led by financial shares. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 42.78 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,485.65, for its first advance in five days. The Nasdaq composite index increased 1.46 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,992.52 for its third consecutive gain.
 Crude oil for May delivery lost 1.4 percent to close at $54.05 a barrel in New York, extending last week's 4.2 percent drop, on speculation that supplies will be ample when global consumption peaks in the third and fourth quarters.
 An S.&P. 500 measure of retailers advanced 1.3 percent. Home Depot, the No. 1 home-improvement chain, climbed 56 cents, to $38.59. The industry index has dropped 7.6 percent this year as rising oil prices heightened concern that consumers will cut back on spending as they pay more for gasoline.
 Jones Apparel Group gained $1.32, to $33.08. A New York appeals court upheld a judge's finding that Polo Ralph Lauren violated a contract with Jones Apparel, paving the way for a separate trial on damages. Jones said it was seeking as much as $550 million.
 Financial shares contributed the most to the S.&P. 500's advance among 10 industry groups, adding 0.7 percent. Citigroup, the biggest financial services company, increased 25 cents, to $44.77. Bank of America rose 54 cents, to $44.29.
 Shares of drug distributors fell after AmerisourceBergen slashed its fiscal 2005 earnings forecast because drug makers are limiting how much inventory distributors can buy before price increases. AmerisourceBergen sank $7.08, or 12 percent, to $54.03, for its steepest one-day decline since October 1999. Profit from continuing operations is expected to be as much as $3.50 a share, compared with the previous estimate of at least $4. 
 General Motors declined 93 cents, to $28.37. Profit at the automaker may decline to about 50 cents a share this year, below its forecast of $1 to $2, a UBS analyst, Robert Hinchliffe, wrote in a report. G.M.'s 50-cents-a-share quarterly dividend may also be at risk as the company tries to reduce its inventory of unsold vehicles and negotiate health care concessions with unions, Mr. Hinchliffe said.
 United States Treasury securities fell on speculation that the Federal Reserve may increase its interest rate target by more than expected. The drop extends a slump from last week that pushed the note's yield, which moves opposite to the price, to the highest level since June after the Fed said ''pressures on inflation have picked up in recent months.'' Inflation erodes the purchasing power of debt payments.
 By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 10/32, to 94 31/32. The yield rose to 4.64 percent, from 4.60 percent on Thursday. (The markets were closed on Good Friday.)
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.297	98.438	High Rate	2.780	3.090	Investment Rate	2.839	3.183	Low Rate	2.760	3.060	Median Rate	2.770	3.075	Total applied for	$54,186,586	$39,916,247	Accepted	$25,728,404	$23,011,512	Noncompetitive	$1,715,589	$1,190,073	

Both issues are dated March 31, 2005. The three-month bills mature on June 30, 2005, and the six-month bills mature on Sept. 29, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''3-Month Treasury Bills''High rate at weekly auction.Graph tracks bills since December.(Source by The Bond Buyer)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS WHOLESALERS (84%); DIVIDENDS (79%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (79%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); ACQUISITIONS (72%); HOME CENTERS (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); APPAREL WHOLESALERS (68%); WOMEN'S APPAREL MFG (68%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (67%); RETAILERS (65%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (63%); JUDGES (63%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SUNGARD DATA SYSTEMS INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (58%); JONES GROUP INC (53%); 77 BANK LTD (52%); AMERISOURCEBERGEN CORP (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (58%); JNY (NYSE) (53%); 8341 (TSE) (52%); ABC (NYSE) (52%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%); NAICS424210 DRUGS & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (52%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005



624 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: China Moves to Halt Fraud After String of Bank Scandals

BYLINE: By CHRIS BUCKLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING, March 28 

 BODY:
Seeking to halt a recent increase in bank corruption, China published rules Monday offering generous rewards to bank employees who expose corruption.
 Bank managers will also be regularly rotated to different posts and monitored for involvement in pornography, gambling and drugs under the rules, which were issued by the China Banking Regulatory Commission.
 Other steps announced included making senior managers ''legally responsible'' for major fraud cases, establishing a system of reporting on the stock investments of managers and top personnel and establishing new checks on loan approvals. 
 ''There's been a succession of major cases due to weaknesses in risk management and internal controls, and this had led to major capital losses from banks,'' a commission official told Xinhua, the official news agency, in a statement that appeared in the Chinese press Monday. Xinhua did not identify the official.
 The rules appear to be an effort to bolster confidence in China's government-owned banks after a string of scandals tarnished plans to issue stock. 
 Late last year, the Bank of China disclosed that employees in one branch in Beijing alone had stolen 30 million yuan ($3.6 million); in February, the China Construction Bank revealed that employees in northeastern China had embezzled 33 million yuan; and a few days ago, the Agricultural Bank of China said that 43 employees in Baotou, in northern China, were under investigation after the disappearance of 115 million yuan.
 On Sunday, the Bank of China announced that an employee in the northeastern city of Dalian had been arrested after embezzling 50 million yuan to gamble on soccer matches. Last week, it was disclosed that Zhang Enzhao, who resigned this month as president of the China Construction Bank, was being sued in a United States court over allegations that he took bribes from an American contractor.
 ''The cases show the auditors are getting serious and going through the banks' books,'' said Stephen Green, a senior economist with Standard Chartered Bank in Shanghai. ''But you'd have to be a fool to believe that Chinese banks are already out of the woods.''
 The government is pressing banks to prepare for the arrival of international banks in 2007, when World Trade Organization rules require China to lift many restrictions on the entry of foreign banks.
 Tang Shuangning, deputy director of the China Bank Regulatory Commission, warned that China's banks must accelerate reforms to prepare for greater competition. Calling the banks' entry into the stock market a ''double-edged sword,'' he said government-owned banks had to improve their internal management and controls if they were to survive in the new environment.
 Mr. Tang warned that the Agricultural Bank of China and the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China faced special difficulties as they prepared to issue equity. A successful revamping of Agricultural Bank depends on wholesale reform of China's troubled rural finance sector, and renewal at the Industrial and Commercial Bank depends on reforming China's government-owned businesses, he said.
 None of the recent losses from fraud is large compared with the $2.9 trillion in deposits Chinese banks held at the end of last year, but analysts said the scandals show that the banks are struggling under lax management.
 In addition, the banking commission warned Chinese banks about involvement in the kind of risky trading that led to the collapse of China Aviation Oil (Singapore) late last year. The unit's collapse ''reflects the massive risks in derivatives trading,'' the commission said on its Web site.
 The Chinese directive comes ahead of a report this week by PricewaterhouseCoopers on that collapse to the Singapore Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING IN CHINA (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SCANDALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); EMBEZZLEMENT (89%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (78%); BRIBERY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); ETHICS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ACCOUNTING (77%); OBSCENITY (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); LITIGATION (76%); NEWS REPORTING (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); BONDS (72%); PORNOGRAPHY (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); STOCK OFFERINGS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (64%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (64%); ARRESTS (64%); SOCCER (50%) Banks and Banking; Frauds and Swindling; Whistle-Blowers; Appointments and Executive Changes; Pornography and Obscenity; Gambling; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Stocks and Bonds; Ethics; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA LTD (94%); INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA LTD (60%); BANK OF CHINA LTD (55%); CHINA CONSTRUCTION BANK CORP (55%); STANDARD CHARTERED AUSTRALIA LTD (52%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK ZIMBABWE LTD (52%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK (THAI) PCL (52%)

TICKER: 1288 (HKSE) (94%); 1398 (HKSE) (60%); 3988 (HKSE) (55%); 0939 (HKSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (94%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (52%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (52%)

PERSON: Chris Buckley

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NORTHEAST CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA (78%); NEI MONGOL, CHINA (58%); LIAONING, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005



625 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: Give SUNY Some Credit

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''In Pataki's Time, SUNY Runs More Like Private Universities'' (''10 Years Later'' series, front page, March 24) gives short shrift to the State University of New York's recent intellectual achievements. The system has, in fact, increased its academic reputation dramatically over recent history.
 Two campuses, the University of Buffalo and Stony Brook University, are members of the Association of American Universities, the 60 most prestigious universities in the country. Stony Brook was recently recognized by both The Times Higher Education Supplement in London and the Shanghai Institute of Higher Education as among the top 150 universities worldwide, placing it in the top 2 percent internationally. 
 The Centers of Excellence on several SUNY campuses, initiated by the governor, serve not only as economic engines but also as incentives for top scholars to join our faculties. The external influences on the local economy are dramatic, but I can tell you that as a president, I also welcome the strength of that investment in attracting the best and brightest researchers to SUNY campuses.

Shirley Strum Kenny
President, Stony Brook University
Stony Brook, N.Y., March 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GOVERNORS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005



626 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1627 words

HEADLINE: Drawing the Line on Energy

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: NAHA, Japan 

 BODY:
Midway between Okinawa and China, the Ramform Victory, a Norwegian seismic ship, is performing routine survey work, trawling with long seismic cables and using sound waves to create three-dimensional images of oil and gas deposits. But nothing is routine when Japan commissions a survey of what is hidden below the contested waters of the East China Sea.
 Chinese coast guard ships treat the surveyors as spies, radioing warnings to leave and shadowing the ship for days on end. On one occasion, the Chinese ships nearly collided with the vessel. Japan's trade minister, flying in a Japan coast guard plane, conducted an ostentatious survey, circling over the bright yellow gas production platform that China is building a mile west of waters claimed by Japan.
 Confronting the Chinese face to face, the trade minister, Shoichi Nakagawa, later sat in front of a Chinese negotiator, dropped two straws in a glass of orange juice, and, forgoing customary Japanese politeness, complained that China was about to ''suck out Japan's resources with a straw.'' The seismic ship, he said, according to ministry officials, found that two deposits under development by China extend into Japanese economic waters. 
 In days of sharply higher energy prices, long-dormant border disputes have suddenly come alive for Japan, the world's second-largest energy-consuming nation after the United States. Galling Japan is a realization that large deposits of oil and gas lie on the nation's watery fringes. Long cocooned by these water buffers, Japan is suddenly bumping shoulders over undersea oil and gas resources with China, South Korea and Russia.
 [In talks in Tokyo on Monday between Japan and China, the world's second- and third-largest oil consumers, Japanese negotiators again demanded that China share its drilling data or drop the project, news agencies reported. The Chinese side rejected the demands and repeated an earlier proposal for a joint venture.
 [But calls are mounting for a Japanese-only project in waters of the East China Sea that both nations claim. On Friday, a ruling party panel urged Japan's government to invite Japanese companies to drill in the area, a call bolstered by the simultaneous release of a Foreign Ministry report that China conducted 22 ''illegal'' surveys of Japanese economic waters last year, triple the number in 2003.]
 Tensions are also flaring between Japan and South Korea over a disputed island group. The Korea Gas Corporation announced in mid-March a 10-year, $225 million investment program to develop what the state-run company said was $150 billion worth of gas hydrate deposits, roughly equivalent to South Korea's natural gas needs for 30 years.
 To the north of Japan, Japanese companies are investing about $1 billion a year to develop oil and gas reserves off Sakhalin, a Russian island that was half-owned by Japan until the end of World War II. 
 But in the fall of 2004, Asia's broadest economic shoulders, China and Japan, bumped over a pipeline to ship Siberian oil. Japan won the first round when Russia went for billions of dollars in Japanese financing to build the line to the Sea of Japan. 
 In response, the Chinese prime minister, Wen Jiabao, announced at a recent Beijing news conference that over the next 18 months, Russian oil exports to China by rail would increase by 50 percent, to 300,000 barrels a day. The Russian government and President Vladimir V. Putin, he added, ''have made it very clear that first consideration will be given to China when they build the Siberian oil-gas pipeline.''
 Spurred by high energy prices, China is pursuing a new energy realpolitik. Entering the Americas, Chinese energy officials are running rings around the United States, exploring deals with Canada, Cuba, Mexico and Venezuela. In Northeast Asia, the fact that China now is Japan's largest trading partner is not stopping China from potentially draining gas from what Japan calls its exclusive economic zone.
 ''The exclusive economic zone is a microcosm of the Sino-Japanese rift,'' said Jeffrey Kingston, an American historian who directs Asian studies at Temple University Japan in Tokyo. ''Japan won Round 1 on the pipeline. Now, China is getting increasingly desperate.''
 In the energy brinkmanship on the high seas west of Okinawa Island, China's $1 billion project is to pump its first gas in August, sending the fuel through a 300-mile pipeline to Shanghai. Compounding Japan's loss of face, Mr. Nakagawa told Parliament in February that the first 260 miles of the line was built with $120 million of Japanese development aid. He confessed, ''It is truly regrettable that this sort of thing happened.''
 Japan now is tripling its research budget in the East China Sea, to $125 million in 2005. Japan is also spending $100 million to build its own seismic survey ship. On Feb. 22, the day after Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi appealed to make the East China Sea ''a sea of cooperation, not a sea of conflict,'' Mr. Nakagawa told reporters, ''We will definitely call on China to stop its work.'' He added that he might soon authorize two Japanese companies to start drilling in the contested area. 
 To strengthen oil and gas exploration worldwide, Japan is to disband the Japan National Oil Corporation, its state-run energy exploration company, on April 1. With a record of drilling largely dry holes in its 305 projects around the world, this company ends 38 years of existence with almost $7 billion in losses. Its successor, the Inpex Corporation, was listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange in the fall of 2004 and is to be run on profit-making lines. Inheriting some of the state company's oil and gas reserves, Inpex will start as a midsize multinational exploration company, similar in reserves to Unocal. 
 Over the next three years, Japanese oil companies and trading houses are to invest about $20 billion in oil and gas exploration and production, roughly double the level of the last three years, according to Nihon Keizai Shimbun. Since the late 1960's, China and Japan have suspected that the waters between China and Okinawa Island contain large deposits of oil and gas. 
 ''In the Japanese area, there is high possibility we can find not only gas, but oil,'' Tsutomu Toichi, managing director of the Institute of Energy Economics, a nonprofit group in Tokyo, said in an interview.
 With the economic boundary in dispute, Asia's two giants had let the energy riches lie untouched. Instead, they focused on their larger economic relationship. 
 Soon, China became Japan's largest destination for foreign investment. Last year, China displaced the United States as Japan's largest trading partner. But with China's economy growing at 9.5 percent last year, and at an annual rate of 8.4 percent since 2000, Chinese officials fret that energy shortages will cap growth. 
 Over the next 25 years, China's dependency on imported oil is forecast to double, hitting 80 percent of its total consumption, according to forecasts by the International Energy Agency, an intergovernmental agency based in Paris. 
 In one setback, two foreign companies, the Royal Dutch/Shell Group and Unocal, dropped out in the fall of 2004 from the Chinese gas development west of here, then China's largest gas joint venture with foreign partners. Both companies cited commercial reasons. 
 A high-ranking Japanese energy official who insisted on not being identified, however, took a different view: ''Commercial reasons include political risks. I think they judged that it's not worth doing, even taking political risks.''
 Undeterred, the Chinese partners, the China National Offshore Oil Corporation and the China Petrochemical Corporation, said they would march ahead with plans to start producing in the summer of 2005. The Chinese may have the last laugh. China National is considering a $14 billion takeover of Unocal. 
 As Chinese workers extend the seabed pipeline to the edge of Japan's claimed economic waters, Chinese diplomats reject Japanese demands that China share drilling data on the reservoirs. On Feb. 18, Mr. Nakagawa, the Japanese trade minister, said that preliminary results from his agency's 2004 survey work indicate that two of three major gas fields China plans to develop in the area extend into Japan.
 ''We demand that China hand over data and stop exploration in the East China Sea until this problem is resolved,'' said Mr. Nakagawa, a conservative with prime-ministerial ambitions.
 China's Foreign Ministry spokesman, Kong Quan, replied that the two fields ''completely fall under the framework of China's rights.''
 As the coast guards of both countries brace for confrontations, Yomiuri Shimbun has reported that Beijing has awarded Chinese energy companies exploration rights over 12 blocks that extend into Japanese economic waters. Three of the 12 are entirely inside the Japanese economic area.
 At the heart of the dispute are different legal interpretations of each nation's exclusive economic zone. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea gives each coastal nation an economic control zone extending 200 nautical miles, or 230 standard miles, from shorelines.
 But the distance between Okinawa and China is about 400 miles. Japan advocates a median line between the two countries. China advocates using as its economic border the eastern extension of the continental shelf, an approach that moves the economic border to an area 50 miles west of the Okinawa archipelago.
 ''The center line is only a Japanese proposal and isn't a mutually agreed border as a result of negotiations between the two countries,'' Wang Yi, China's ambassador to Japan, told reporters last October at a news conference in Tokyo. ''It isn't fair to use this borderline to judge which side is right or wrong.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 2, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about tensions between the Japanese and Chinese governments over gas deposits in the East China Sea misstated the timing of a flyover of the disputed area by Japan's trade minister and his meeting with Chinese negotiators. They took place in June 2004, shortly before the Japanese survey work began, not afterward. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Ramform Victory, chartered by Japan, is performing oil and gas surveys in the East China Sea. (Photo by Everett Kennedy Brown/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C1)
 An offshore gas production platform in the South China Sea, west of the Indonesian island of Natuna. China is building a gas production platform in the East China Sea, a mile west of waters claimed by Japan. (pg. C7)Map of the East China Sea highlighting the disputed area (Senkaku Islands --administered by Japan, claimed by China and Taiwan). The map also highlights the following:Boundary claimed by ChinaBoundary claimed by Japan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); SURVEYING & MAPPING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (67%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Reserves (Natural Resources); Capital Investment; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: KOREA GAS CORP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: Korea Gas Corp

TICKER: 036460 (KSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (82%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (82%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (58%) Wen Jiabao (Prime Min); James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) EAST CHINA SEA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (92%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%) JAPAN (99%); CHINA (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); NORWAY (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%) Japan; East China Sea; South Korea; China; Russia; Sakhalin Island ; Siberia; Sea of Japan

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005



627 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1888 words

HEADLINE: Poker-Faced Diplomat, Negroponte Is Poised For Role as Spy Chief

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 28 

 BODY:
When Duane R. Clarridge visited John D. Negroponte last summer in his barricaded compound in Baghdad, Mr. Negroponte, then the American ambassador, surprised his visitor by greeting him as ''Mr. Marone.''
 That was Mr. Clarridge's alias 20 years ago when they last met. He was running the Central Intelligence Agency's covert war against communism in Central America from Honduras, where Mr. Negroponte was in his first ambassadorial post.
 The greeting was a reminder that in a four-decade diplomatic career, Mr. Negroponte, 65, has often operated on the fringes of the secret world of intelligence. 
 Now, as the United States fights another borderless war against a different enemy, terrorism, he is about to move to the center of that world, as the first director of national intelligence. His task will be to coordinate 15 spy agencies so that the United States is never again surprised as it was on Sept. 11, 2001, nor as ill-informed as it was about Iraq's weapons programs.
 Mr. Negroponte's career has been distinguished by an unflinching allegiance to his government's policies, whether he was helping arm the Nicaraguan contras or lining up support for the war in Iraq as ambassador to the United Nations. As he prepares for Senate confirmation hearings next month, a central question is whether the traits that served him well as a diplomat are suited to a post that may require him to tell the president what he does not want to hear.
 ''It's a hugely different job,'' said Lee H. Hamilton, vice chairman of the commission that examined the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and recommended creation of the intelligence czar's job.
 ''The diplomat's job is to carry out the policy of the United States government, which is set by the president,'' said Mr. Hamilton, a former congressman from Indiana. ''In the intelligence job, John Negroponte will have to tell the president what we know and what we don't know -- whether the intelligence supports or undercuts the policy. It takes courage and considerable gumption to say, 'Mr. President, the intelligence does not run the way you'd like it to.'''
 Over the years, Mr. Negroponte has developed a reputation as a poker-faced diplomat who never betrays his personal views. If he harbored doubts before the war in Iraq, he never let it show, said Paul Heinbecker, who was Canadian ambassador to the United Nations at the time. ''He didn't expose whether he thought the position of his country was 100 percent sound, 90 percent sound or 20 percent sound,'' Mr. Heinbecker said. ''He's very much the United States' representative.''
 In five ambassadorships -- the others were Mexico and the Philippines -- and in Washington, Mr. Negroponte has helped broker peace in Vietnam, negotiated a treaty to protect the ozone layer, cajoled congressmen to accept the North American Free Trade Agreement and ushered Iraq through its first democratic elections. 
 Mr. Negroponte, who declined to be interviewed for this article, will go to work amid echoes of the disputes that surrounded the covert wars of the 1980's and have shadowed his career ever since. News coverage of the fight against terror includes near-daily reports of abuse of detainees, of the C.I.A. secretly transporting terrorism suspects to foreign prisons, of politicized intelligence and partisan debate about how to protect American security while preserving American values.
 Respected by Democrats as well as Republicans for his preference for quiet negotiation over public grandstanding, his unfailing courtesy and his knowledge of foreign affairs, Mr. Negroponte has inspired loyalty from many former colleagues. They say he is no ideologue but a nonpartisan pragmatist, a tough American conservative with deep European roots. 
 But Mr. Negroponte has become a lightning rod for liberal activists, led by those who opposed the Reagan-era Central American intervention as brutal and unnecessary and view the current Bush policy of pre-emption as a rerun. They say Mr. Negroponte carried out harsh orders then and fear he will carry out harsher orders now.
 Michael Ratner, president of the Center for Constitutional Rights in New York, called Mr. Negroponte's nomination ''scary as heck.'' Mr. Ratner recalled a cool reception when he pressed human rights concerns with Mr. Negroponte in Honduras two decades ago. Today Mr. Ratner is an advocate for more than 100 Iraqis who say they were tortured in American detention centers.
 ''Then, the feeling was they could use any means necessary to defeat communism,'' Mr. Ratner said. ''Today, the belief is they can use any means necessary to defeat terrorism.''
 Charles Hill, a retired diplomat now at Yale University, sees a different parallel. During the 1980's and today, he said, some Americans wrongly focused on scattered abuses, failing to comprehend that ''strength and diplomacy have to be worked together'' to overcome tyranny and terrorism.
 Mr. Hill finds the notion of Mr. Negroponte as a defender of torturers a preposterous caricature. ''He's the ideal person for this intelligence job,'' Mr. Hill said. ''He's intellectually courageous and honest. He's held his positions against all kinds of pressure.''
 The son of a Greek shipping executive -- the family name comes from the old name of a Greek island -- Mr. Negroponte was born in London and grew up on Park Avenue in Manhattan and on Long Island. He graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy and Yale (in the same class as Porter J. Goss, the director of central intelligence) and took ski vacations at the family's home in Switzerland. His friends say he is driven by ambition and a sense of public service. 
 Mr. Negroponte left Harvard Law School to join the Foreign Service in 1960. By 1964, he was in Vietnam -- Vietnamese is among the five languages he speaks -- and would be immersed in the country over the next decade as an aide to Henry A. Kissinger in Saigon, Paris and Washington. 
 Mr. Negroponte eventually broke with his mentor, arguing that Dr. Kissinger's peace treaty undercut the South Vietnamese. It was a rare rebellion, and it slowed his career. But he never went public.
 ''John just said, 'I want out,' and went off to the embassy in Ecuador as economics officer,'' said Robert B. Oakley, who shared an office with him in Saigon. ''His approach has always been to work from within.''
 Mr. Negroponte arrived in Honduras in 1981 just as President Ronald Reagan authorized paramilitary operations against the leftist government of Nicaragua. Honduras became the base for the Nicaraguan opposition, known as the contras, and their C.I.A. supporters.
 This period has haunted Mr. Negroponte. Not only rights activists but also Jack R. Binns, Mr. Negroponte's predecessor as ambassador, have accused him of discouraging reporting to Washington of abductions, torture and killings by notorious Honduran military units.
 ''I think he was complicit in abuses, I think he tried to put a lid on reporting abuses and I think he was untruthful to Congress about those activities,'' said Mr. Binns, now retired in Arizona.
 A 1997 report by the inspector general of the C.I.A. seemed to support the accusations, saying Mr. Negroponte was ''particularly sensitive'' about reporting abuses.
 He has rejected the charges, and the evidence is equivocal. In 2001, at his confirmation hearing for the United Nations job, Mr. Negroponte labeled the C.I.A. assertion ''absolutely false.'' He said that democracy was the best guarantor of both human rights and peace, and that he had tried to nourish Honduras's fledgling elected government while complaining privately of abuses.
 ''Could I have been more vocal?'' Mr. Negroponte said. ''Well, you know, in retrospect perhaps I could have been.''
 Two former subordinates in Honduras say they heard Mr. Negroponte raise specific cases of abuse with Gen. Gustavo Alvarez Martinez, the hard-line military chief. ''I remember very difficult conversations with Alvarez on the treatment of prisoners,'' said Raymond F. Burghardt, political counselor from 1982 to 1984.
 What appears indisputable is that Mr. Negroponte played an active role in managing the contra war. ''Negroponte was a big supporter of the agency's covert action mission,'' said Mr. Clarridge, the C.I.A. veteran. 
 Declassified records from 1983 show Mr. Negroponte asking Washington to authorize 3,000 weapons to be shipped secretly to Honduras to arm the contras.
 ''What you have is an ambassador putting on a C.I.A. station chief's hat,'' said Peter Kornbluh of the National Security Archive at George Washington University. ''Some people might say this makes him more qualified for the new intelligence job.''
 Leo Valladares Lanza, a law professor who as Honduras's human rights commissioner investigated 184 ''disappearances'' in the early 1980's, said Mr. Negroponte made aiding the contras a far higher priority than preventing abuses.
 ''I think he could have stopped all these assassinations and torture,'' Dr. Valladares said. Of the intelligence job, he added: ''We're against this nomination. If he didn't see human rights violations in Honduras, it's possible he won't see human rights violations anywhere in the world.''
 After his stint in Honduras, Mr. Negroponte held a series of less-prominent posts over the next dozen years. As an assistant secretary of state, he worked on AIDS, ozone and sea law. He served in the Reagan White House as deputy national security adviser. As ambassador to the United Nations, Mr. Negroponte pressed on foreign colleagues American intelligence on Iraqi weapons that turned out to be profoundly flawed.
 If he was miffed, Mr. Negroponte never spoke out. ''Colin Powell was the good soldier, and John Negroponte was the good soldier to the good soldier,'' said Sir Jeremy Greenstock, then British ambassador to the United Nations. Dispatched last July to Iraq, Mr. Negroponte worked closely with what intelligence officials describe as the largest C.I.A. station in the world. He was deliberately as inconspicuous in public as his predecessor with the Coalition Provisional Authority, L. Paul Bremer III, had been visible. 
 ''He was told to play a low-key role and let the Iraqis be out front,'' said Mr. Clarridge, the C.I.A. retiree. ''And that's what he likes to do, anyway.''
 Mr. Negroponte shifted more than $1 billion to build up the Iraqi Army from reconstruction projects, a move prompted by his experience with the frailty of the South Vietnamese Army, said Mr. Oakley, the former colleague from Vietnam.
 Before the Jan. 30 election, Mr. Negroponte also defeated a plan proposed by some officials to send political consultants to Iraq to try to head off too big a victory by religious Shiites, said Bernard Aronson, a former assistant secretary of state and an old friend. Mr. Negroponte ''had the courage to say no,'' arguing that American meddling could undermine the legitimacy of the vote, Mr. Aronson said.
 Of Mr. Negroponte's new intelligence position, two dozen current and former government officials interviewed agreed that the job is fraught with hazards. 
 ''You have a bureaucracy, and you put another bureaucracy on top of it, and you expect the bureaucracy on top to solve the problems of the bureaucracy below?'' said Fred C. Ikle, a former defense official who worked with Mr. Negroponte in the Reagan administration. ''Good luck to him!''


GRAPHIC: Photos: AT THE U.N. -- As the United States ambassador to Iraq, John D. Negroponte, right, voted on a Security Council resolution on Iraq in May 2003. (Photo by Richard Drew/Associated Press)
IN NAJAF -- Under heavy security, Mr. Negroponte arrived last fall to meet with Iraqi officials. (Photo by Alaa Al-Raya/Associated Press)
IN BAGHDAD -- Ambassador Negroponte, left, met last month with Ibrahim al-Jaafari of the United Iraqi Alliance. Mr. Jaafari is the Shiite bloc's nominee for prime minister of Iraq. (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images)
 ON CAPITOL HILL -- Mr. Negroponte, testified in 1981 before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (91%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); TERRORISM (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (52%) Intelligence Services; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (58%)

PERSON: JOHN NEGROPONTE (94%) Scott Shane; John D Negroponte

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); HONDURAS (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); NICARAGUA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005



628 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Fuel for South Asia's Arms Race

 BODY:
The United States has far better ways to reward Pakistan for its helpful but selective pressure on Al Qaeda and the Taliban than President Bush's decision last week to break with 15 years of policy and sell Pakistan high-performance fighters whose only plausible use is to threaten India. Balancing those sales by offering New Delhi the chance to purchase, and perhaps build, similar planes doesn't lessen the damage of the Pakistan sale. It compounds it. The worst thing for these two nuclear powers, which have fought three wars against each other since 1947, is to encourage them to engage in a new, American-fueled arms race. 
 The United States does have a compelling strategic interest in helping Pakistan. But the right kind of help does not consist of selling Pakistan's armed forces, led by the country's military dictator, President Pervez Musharraf, prestigious, expensive and dangerous weapons systems. Decades of swollen military budgets have virtually bankrupted Pakistan, leaving its government unable to afford adequate spending on education and job-creating economic modernization. Instead, its leaders have fed the Pakistani people a diet of belligerent nationalism and projects like nuclear weapons that are designed to enhance a sense of prestige. 
 In this environment, civilian democracy has never struck deep roots, military takeovers have been common, and recruitment for a variety of groups preaching armed Islamist jihad has thrived. General Musharraf likes to advertise his occasional attacks on the most terrifying symptoms of this syndrome. He is far less willing to strike at its sources by pushing Pakistan toward development and democracy and far too eager to drain its resources on supersonic attack jets. 
 In reviewing the new Pakistan arms sale policy, which overturns a 15-year-old ban imposed over concerns about Pakistani nuclear weapons activity, Congress should think hard about the messages the United States wants to send to future proliferators. Pakistan developed nuclear weapons of its own after refusing to sign international nonproliferation treaties. Worse, it has spread nuclear weapons technology to Iran, North Korea, Libya and who knows what other countries, through the rogue network that was run by its top government nuclear scientist, A.Q. Khan. When Dr. Khan's activities became public a little over a year ago, he was pardoned by Pakistan's government, which conveniently avoided embarrassing revelations about any help he might have received from allies in the Pakistani military. 
 Advocates of these military sales will argue, as they always do, that if the United States did not sell Pakistan and India advanced fighter jets, other countries would. That is probably true, but it is not a justification for fueling an arms race. One big reason both governments want to buy American planes is to advertise to their own people and the world that their costly military spending enjoys the full backing of Washington. That alone is reason enough to regret Mr. Bush's decision. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); ARMS RACE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (70%); EDUCATION FUNDING (67%); JOB CREATION (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (52%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Editorials; Arms Sales Abroad; Military Aircraft; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Atomic Weapons

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (68%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (92%); SOUTHERN ASIA (88%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) Pakistan; India

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005



629 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 120 words

HEADLINE: A More Relaxed President

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''President Bush's New Public Face: Confident, Comfortable and 'Impishly Fun''' (White House Letter, March 28) was downright refreshing. It's terrific to see that President Bush is ''calm and relaxed and confident,'' that he's fit and flirty, that he's letting his ''impishness'' come through in his second term.
 It's a sorely needed break from the daily news reports about the escalating deficit, thousands of grieving families of troops killed in Iraq, millions of Americans unemployed and without health care, ever-rising gas prices, the swift destruction of our environment, and our children murdering each other with guns.
 At least someone in this country is smiling.

Ann Pryor
New York, March 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005



630 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Museums; COMING ATTRACTIONS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: A New Trove of Treasures, With Their Tales

BYLINE: By SARA IVRY

 BODY:
WHEN a museum adds to its collection, it acquires not only an object to wow visitors with, but also a story to go with it.

Walters Museum of Art
 Baltimore. Icon of Saint George and the Virgin and Child, early-16th century, Ethiopia, tempera on panel. 
 Crowned in 1436, Emperor Zara Yakob of Ethiopia had a particular fondness for the Virgin Mary and required each church in the country to have an icon of her for rituals on relevant feast days. A result was a surge in small devotional diptychs made from native wanza wood and produced by court monks in the 15th and the 16th centuries, which is considered the country's golden age of icon painting
 Though the artists were Ethiopian and never signed their work, this icon shows distinct European influence. But the use of red, green and yellow, traditional color schemes in Ethiopia, show it to be the work of a local. The Walters Museum bought this piece in 2004 from a London dealer named Sam Fogg.

Ogden Museum of Southern Art
 New Orleans. ''Missing (No. 3),'' Philip Morsberger, 2003, oil, poster.
 Philip Morsberger, who lives in Georgia, made his first images in the ''Missing'' series in 1964, reacting to the murders of James Chaney, Andrew Goodman and Michael Schwerner during the civil rights era.
 At the crossroads of Abstract Expressionism and Pop Art, Mr. Morsberger made the work using F.B.I. posters of the dead men and paint that he scratched away. The second image was of a pencil drawing without text.
 Decades passed as the murder remained unsolved and in the public eye as a symbol of the era's racial strife. For his part, Mr. Morsberger laid aside the subject until 2002, when he revisited the brutal event armed with new photographs of the dead, and with a Pollock-like splash of paint, to make image No. 3.
 The arrest early this year of a suspect in the murders brought the work a renewed relevance in showing the ''pain of developing the new South,'' said David Houston, chief curator at the Ogden.

Walker Art Center
 Minneapolis. ''When Faith Moves Mountains,'' 2002-2003, videos, drawings, photographs by Francis Alys.
 By design, Francis Alys set out to create an urban myth when he recruited 500 volunteers to pick up shovels and shift a sand dune that stretched 1,600 feet on the outskirts of Lima, Peru, by less than four inches. The Antwerp-born artist, who now lives in Mexico City, hoped to create a legend about a Herculean effort that produced tiny results.
 The project that Mr. Alys set out to achieve, in 2002, would live on through oral history, while demonstrating man's ability to recreate natural phenomenon -- a shifting dune -- at a clip faster than nature itself.
 The Walker museum bought documentation of the event by Mr. Alys from his dealer in Paris last July.

Winterthur
 Winterthur, Del. Indian Trade Peace Medallion, brass, 1804.
 When Donald Fennimore, a Winterthur curator, went to the bar mitzvah of the son of a colleague last year, he noted a guest wearing a medallion, measuring five inches, around his neck. Fennimore recognized it as an Indian Peace medallion, the sort made as gifts commemorating treaties with Indians as the American government took over land in its westward expansion.
 Such medallions were made of silver or brass and were often buried with their owners. The guest, Joseph Robbins, bought his medallion, engraved on one side with an eagle and on the other with the image of two men exchanging a wampum belt, from an antiques dealer at a show on Jekyll Island, Ga., three years ago.
 It signifies the handing over of three square miles of land by the Eel River Nation in the territory of Indiana to its governor, William Henry Harrison. Mr. Robbins, a retired opera singer, wore it to the party intending to attract a curator's expert eye; he succeeded and gave the museum the piece the next week.

Rhode Island School of Design Museum
 Providence, R.I. ''Robin Hood's Happy Kids,'' 2003, color screen prints on paper, Abel Oliva, Cuba. 
 On a trip to Havana for the its biennial exhibition in 2003, Judith Tannenbaum, a curator, was taken by a colleague to the home and studio of Abel Oliva, a Cuban artist who often uses video in his work.
 During the visit, a power failure prevented Mr. Oliva from showing his recent conceptual pieces.
 Instead the artist, now based in Barcelona, showed a series of 13 prints of everyday items, among them a comb, clothespins and tiger balm with the dollar or peso amount that such incidentals fetch on the black market -- $5, $5 and 10 pesos, respectively.
 Usually, Mr. Oliva sold the prints for the same amount as the items, but in this case, he refused to take more than $15 total, which included an envelope for the prints on which he had printed an image of Robin Hood. While the prints' aesthetic quality recalls Warhol's soup cans, they also amounted to an indirect critique of the economic strain under which Cubans live.

International Vinegar Museum
 Roslyn, S.D. Vinegar-glazed pottery, 2004, Lawrence J. Diggs.
 Around the time Lawrence J. Diggs moved to Roslyn, in 1989, where the population hovered above 200, the town began facing the crisis of its young people moving away. Mr. Diggs, who had come to Roslyn to buy a summer house and ended staying for the love it, became interested in nutrition while serving in the Peace Corps.
 He possessed an expertise in all things vinegar and wrote the book on it -- ''Vinegar: The User Friendly Standard Text, Reference and Guide to Appreciating, Making and Enjoying Vinegar'' came out in 1996. Mr. Diggs's neighbors thought such uncommon knowledge could anchor a museum.
 It opened in 1999 in an abandoned municipal building that the town rented out for $1, and includes more than 350 types of vinegar, exhibitions on the history of vinegar making and displays of its uses in papermaking, for example
 Last year, Mr. Diggs added to its holdings by developing a glazing technique that uses vinegar and is inspired by the Japanese philosophical tradition of wabi-sabi, making beauty out of imperfection.


GRAPHIC: Photos: THIS JUST IN -- A drawing, left, as part of the planning for the earth-moving event created by Francis Alys,''When Faith Moves Mountains''
top, a print by the Cuban artist Abel Oliva
and an icon painted in Ethiopia in the 16th century. (Photo by Collection Walker Art Center)
(Photo by Courtesy of the R.I.S.D. Museum)
 (Photo by Walters Museum of Art)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); MURDER (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); HISTORY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (65%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (52%) ETHIOPIA (93%); PERU (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); BELGIUM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



631 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Museums; OUT WEST, WAY OUT; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: The Melted Dog: Memories of an Atomic Childhood

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
THE dog had melted. The rumor raced through our school, John S. Parks Elementary, here the day after ''Harry'' was detonated at dawn in May 1953 at the Nevada Test Site, a mere 65 miles northwest from what was then my home. 
 The story was that a family in Indian Springs, only 25 miles away from ground zero, had returned to their ranch house after the test to find their beloved pet reduced to a puddle of blood, bones and clumps of matted hair. The government had supposedly suppressed the incident.
 There probably never was a dead dog, but there was genuine cause for anxiety. Harry's radioactive debris, in fact, spread unexpectedly to St. George, a tiny farming town in neighboring Utah whose residents were advised to ''shelter in place'' with their doors and windows shut until the radioactive danger passed. On a major freeway near the site, some 40 cars registered low, but above-average, levels of radioactivity. The Atomic Energy Commission instructed car owners to hose down their vehicles and themselves. Neither the unusually rainy weather nor the flulike symptoms reported by some residents were related to the blast, the commissioners said. The radioactive ''snow'' found as far away as Rhode Island elicited little public debate. 
 Memories of the awe, pride and subliminal terror associated with living near what some historians now call the cold war's major ''battlefield'' enveloped me as I toured the new $3.5 million Atomic Testing Museum, the latest tourist attraction in America's most bizarre city.
 Located less than a mile east of Las Vegas Boulevard, the Strip to locals, the 8,000-square-foot museum, which opened in February, chronicles much of this unique part of America's atomic history, the 47 years of atmospheric and underground nuclear testing from 1945 to 1992 when a worldwide testing moratorium took effect. By then, 1,054 tests had been conducted, 90 percent in Nevada. 
 For years, the government and much of the press tried to downplay the danger of radiation while appealing to patriotism. The tests were being conducted not to give the neon city that still never sleeps a ''Roman holiday'' or to irritate ''a few self-centered Las Vegans,'' wrote Hank Greenspun, my father's friend who owned the Las Vegas Morning Sun. The tests were needed ''to maintain our lead'' over what we then called the ''Reds.'' Moreover, as Mr. Greenspun wrote in his popular Where I Stand column, a copy of which is included in the museum's archive of some 310,000 testing-related documents, Las Vegas depended on tourist dollars. ''Panic can spread where no danger exists,'' he warned, chiding ''sensation-seeking reporters'' whose ''frivolous'' accounts threatened not only national security but also the city's economy. 
 The public-relations strategy to make Nevadans ''feel at home with neutrons trotting around'' and to encourage ''local pride in being in the limelight,'' according to government memos written shortly before the controversial experiments began, was effective, as the museum's ''popular culture'' display attests. 
 Throughout the 1950's, I tore off the labels on Kix cereal boxes to send away for an atomic bomb ring. I also had an ''atomic buster'' toy pistol like those on display, but not the silver Christmas tree ornaments decorated with symbols of the atom. The junior Girl Scouts, or Brownies, did not get the embroidered ''atomic energy'' Boy Scout merit badges that were on display. But I recall the salt-and-pepper shakers shaped like Fat Man and Little Boy, America's first two atomic bombs, dropped on Japan, on my friends' Formica kitchen tables. 
 I coveted the iconic postcard on display -- the distinctive mushroom cloud rising behind Wilbur Clark's Desert Inn, the D.I., as my parents and everyone else called it. At bars in hotels like this and in the Sahara, the Flamingo, the Dunes and the Sands -- there was no replica of Venice or the Eiffel Tower -- tourists and the town's 50,000 residents sipped gin, not vodka martinis and other atomic cocktails, or as the subtitle of the drinks recipe book on display proclaims, ''Mixed Drinks for Modern Times.''
 In one corner hangs a blowup of the cover of the June 21, 1952, edition of Collier's magazine. A dozen or so children are lying face down in a schoolyard, hands cupped over their heads, abandoned bikes nearby. ''A is for Atom,'' the cover declares. We ''atomic kids'' knew how to protect ourselves against ''the big one.'' 
 There are also two copies of the orange warning posters issued by the Clark County Civil Defense Agency, which we were told to post in a ''prominent place near your telephone or in your kitchen.'' Keep a ''well-balanced'' supply of food on hand, the officials said.
 I lingered for some time by a display of a male and female mannequin blown off their chairs in a makeshift basement shelter. Having survived a test at the site, the plastic people had been shown off in 1953 at J.C. Penney. ''Before'' and ''after'' photographs were published by the Las Vegas Review-Journal, with a warning: ''These mannequins could have been real people; in fact, they could have been you.'' The female was wearing a cinch-belted full skirt like the one my mother used to wear.
 By the late 50's, as the novelty of atomic testing wore thin and concerns about safety and radiation deepened, the town fathers decided to generate buzz to keep visitors coming to Las Vegas and parking along Highway 95 to watch the dawn tests. On display is a life-size paper cutout of their solution -- Miss Atomic Bomb of 1957. The museum store sells Miss A-Bomb refrigerator magnets for $8.
 Las Vegas was proud of its status as the city of skin, sin and sex, rather than the family entertainment center it has tried to become. The transformation has made what is among the nation's fastest-growing cities even more surreal, as are aspects of the museum itself. It prominently displays a sign marking the entry to the test site at Gate 100, for instance. A sign welcoming 1950's visitors to Mercury, the Atomic Energy Commission's home in a secret enclave then, is in neon. Nearby are black-and-white photographs of daily life at the test site, portraying the scientists and other nuclear weaponeers at work and play. Contemporary descriptions of the testing effort now read like Orwell. Atomic bombs were ''humane'' and ''merciful,'' articles of the day state, a stance the museum wisely shuns.
 Americans discovered the devastating effects on the health of some of the hundreds of thousands of soldiers who drilled on the atomic battlefield during the tests only years later. Published in 1980, ''Atomic Soldiers,'' a slender volume by Howard Rosenberg, now an investigative journalist for ABC, discussed the soldiers' ailments and explored the critical debates that have raged ever since testing began in Nevada: the effects of fallout, the relationship between low-level radiation exposure and cancer, and what he calls ''the elitism that allowed a few men to make decisions that affect us all.'' 
 The effects on civilians like me who grew up in and around Las Vegas may never be known, given the paucity of epidemiological studies. 
 Americans remain polarized by the testing, a division the exhibition mentions but does not stress. Some historians argue that the testing helped prevent the use of nuclear arms and ultimately helped prompt the Soviet Union's collapse. Others argue that the stockpile of tens of thousands of weapons too horrifying to use fueled the nuclear arms race, fostering global proliferation and instability that threaten us with Armageddon to this day. The secrecy that took root here has now infected much of government. It is no accident that the exhibition ends with fragments of both the Berlin Wall and the Twin Towers. 
 Who is visiting these riveting, if often creepy, cold war artifacts? Most of the 800 visitors or so a week are baby boomers like me or teenagers, many of whom have pronounced the exhibition ''cool,'' said William G. Johnson, the museum's director, a self-described ''cold war archaeologist.''
 Troy E. Wade II, the chairman of the Nevada Test Site Historical Foundation, which pioneered the project and who for years conducted the countdown at ground zero, hopes to eventually attract thousands. Polls show that 39 million people visited Las Vegas in 2003, he said, 68 percent of whom wake up not knowing what they will do that day.


GRAPHIC: Photos: FIFTY YEARS AGO -- Visitors to the Atomic Testing Museum in a re-creation of the tests' control room, above. The museum offers tours of the bomb range, including the house, top, which was 8,000 feet from ground zero in 1955. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)
 (Photographs by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); PETS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); HISTORY (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); COLD WAR (69%); TOURISM (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); ST GEORGE, UT, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



632 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Museums; THE GOODS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Let's Hit the Gift Shop, and Drop $60,000 

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT; Judith Miller contributed reporting from Las Vegas for this article.

 BODY:
ABOUT two months ago, Giusi Lacarra, assistant manager at the Metropolitan Museum of Art gift shop, got a call from an eager customer. The woman wanted to know if the $24,750 Byzantine-style necklace of pink cabochon sapphires in delicate gold settings advertised on the museum's Web site was still available.
 Mrs. Lacarra's positive response encouraged the caller. ''Why don't you just mail it to me,'' she told Mrs. Lacarra. And so the necklace went out. 
 The Byzantine necklace is not the most expensive bling that the museum has sold. Another visitor saw an amethyst choker with a biblike spray of amethyst drops for about $60,000, which was a modern version of a traditional Indian necklace worn in court ceremonies. She charged it and said she would wear it to the opera that evening.
 The Metropolitan is hardly alone in courting wealthier customers. Many museum shops nationwide are beginning to offer far more expensive jewelry than they once did. Even the staid American Museum of Natural History is selling a $125,000 bracelet as part of its exhibition of American Indian jewelry of the Northwest and Southwest.
 Museums are selling to an eager audience. Women in particular are more concerned with adornment than ever, and more women now have the means to buy for themselves. ''In the past, men generally bought jewelry for women,'' said Susan Weber Soros, director of the Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts in Manhattan. ''Now there seem to be a lot more people with money, and more women make their own way in the world.''
 A surge in foreign visitors lured by the weakened dollar, has made the number of potential buyers swell.
 If names like Bulgari, Cartier and Verdura have great cachet in the jewelry world, museums have the added allure that comes from association with great culture, lending the pieces an appeal of their own.
 The Metropolitan has long been the leader in museum marketing. Last year, sales at its 20 gift shops around the country generated $80 million of its $260 million in revenue. But as the bling binge soars, others are following suit, promoting jewels in shops, catalogs and on the Web. It is even important for smaller museums like the Neue Galerie in Manhattan, a center for German and Austrian art, which sold several hundred thousand dollars of merchandise last year. Its catalog features a beaded $14,000 necklace and beaded earrings for $3,500.
 Last month, a visitor to the Heard Museum in Phoenix bought an 18-karat gold, boulder opal and jade necklace and two pairs of matching earrings (the necklace is reversible) by the Hopi-Laguna artist Duane Maktima for $34,000. And visitors to the Heard Web site can buy a $3,200 traditional Navajo-style sterling silver and turquoise belt. At the Heard's downtown Phoenix shop, there is another belt, a more contemporary design, for $5,300.
 ''Good jewelry adds to a museum's panache as well as its profitability,'' said Ashton Hawkins, a former executive vice president at the Metropolitan and now chairman at the National Jewelry Institute. ''Gift shops promote the intentions of the museum. They make a big difference to the bottom line and also to peoples' awareness of the museum.''
 The Metropolitan began carrying more expensive jewelry four years ago. ''I looked at our product line and realized that we have customers that walk through the door from all economic levels, but we were not catering to the high end,'' said Sally Pearson, vice president and general manager for merchandising. ''We began to offer more expensive jewelry related to the Mughal show in 2001; we sold $1.2 million worth of jewelry at the desk by the time the show was over.''
 Only four of the Met's gift shops sell items that cost more than several thousand dollars. Its store at the Desert Passage at the Aladdin, a Las Vegas mall, carries a $2,250 ajoure 14-karat-gold bohemian-style necklace with citrine, amethyst and peridot -- but nothing over $6,000.
 For years, museums, fearful of appearing too elitist, tended to shy away from high-end customers, said Susan Carpenter, a museum consultant who helped set up the shop at the new Rubin Museum of Art in Manhattan, which focuses on Himalayan art. But other retailers, she said, including the Museum Store Company, adopted the concept of selling art-related goods. 
 ''Museums had to start to think about how to increase sales in their shops,'' Ms. Carpenter said. ''They realized that there were not a lot of other retailers who could sell to such a wide range of customers.''
 Ms. Soros of the Bard center, which recently showcased Castellani jewelry, said the growing popularity of one-of-a-kind museum jewelry comes at an opportune time because women are not dressing as formally as they used to, and the bohemian chic of some it appeals to a more casual lifestyle.
 At museums like the Met or the Smithsonian, the institution's name gives the jewelry status. Lesser-known museums are trying to enlist more brand-name artists to lure customers. The Rubin, for example, is marketing jewelry by Eileen Coyne. And the Neue Galerie offers beaded pieces by Jacqueline Lillie, who designs only 40 pieces a year. The Neue, like most others, takes most jewelry on consignment, including a $14,000 Lillie necklace made from thousands of tiny aquamarine and green glass beads on knotted silk thread. 
 At the Neue, the presumption is that patrons have a certain level of sophistication. Renee Price, the director, said that she had the gift shops of old elegant grand hotels in mind when she planned the Neue store. The least expensive jewelry that the museum sells is a beaded glass ring for about $100. ''People keep calling who want to manufacture ties for us with a Gustave Klimt pattern on them,'' she said, ''but we say no.'' The Heard insists that all its artists be registered members of federally recognized tribes and that they be at least a quarter American Indian, which is generally what the tribes themselves require for membership.
 The Met provides an artex, a small description of how the design relates to the museum's collection. Some of the chokers from the Mughal jewelry show, for example, have intricate designs on both sides and are reversible. The dual decoration addresses an Indian belief that the body can see and feel, and to satisfy one's inner aesthetic, what rests on the skin must be as pleasing as what is seen by onlookers.
 Given that, one could actually look at a $11,750 Mughal necklace as a bargain -- two necklaces in one. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: HAUTE PRICED -- The Navajo-style belt with turquoise, top, is $5,300 at the Heard Museum. The Neue Galerie offers the beaded necklace, left, at $14,000, and the Metropolitan has an $11,750 necklace inspired by its 2001 Mughal jewelry exhibition. (Photo by Jeff Topping for The New York Times)
 (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (90%); WOMEN (89%); HISTORY (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); FINE JEWELRY (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); NATIVE AMERICANS (74%); VISUAL ARTS (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); US DOLLAR (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



633 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Broadway 'Charity' Is Now Back On

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
Put the posters back up: The on-again, off-again Broadway revival of ''Sweet Charity'' is on again. 
 Just four days after announcing that the $7.5 million production would close as a result of weak reviews of its tryout in Boston, Fran and Barry Weissler and Clear Channel Communications, the show's producers, said yesterday that its injured star, Christina Applegate, had persuaded them to continue.
 ''I spent the whole weekend on the telephone with Christina Applegate, who made a passionate and compelling case for moving forward with the Broadway plans,'' Mr. Weissler said. ''Her doctors also confirmed this morning that she will be ready and able to resume performances on April 18.'' 
 Mr. Weissler then outlined the show's new schedule: ''Sweet Charity,'' which was originally to start previews at the Al Hirschfeld Theater tomorrow, will now begin performances on April 11, with Charlotte d'Amboise in the lead. Ms. d'Amboise, who had gamely filled the show's title role in Boston after Ms. Applegate's injury, will play Charity until Ms. Applegate returns. The show's opening night, once April 21, is now May 4, the final date of eligibility for this year's Tony Awards.
 Neither Ms. Applegate nor her publicist, Ame Van Iden, could be reached for comment. 
 Mr. Weissler, who still must find a way to build on the show's meager advance (estimated to be just $2 million), said the decision to push ahead was purely Ms. Applegate's and not precipitated by any economic or legal reasons.
 ''There is love, absolute love, between everyone in this production,'' he said, adding that he and his partners had contributed some extra money to the show's marketing and advertising.
 Mr. Weissler has also been fortunate; after he announced the show's cancellation on Friday, Rocco Landesman, who owns the Hirschfeld, entered discussions with the Roundabout Theater Company about transferring its hit revival, ''Twelve Angry Men,'' to the theater. But early yesterday afternoon, the Roundabout passed on the space, so it remained available. 
 The new Broadway plans for ''Charity'' are just the latest chapter in a drama that began on March 11, when Ms. Applegate broke a bone in her foot onstage during a tryout run in Chicago. Days later, her standby, Ms. d'Amboise, took over in Boston and opened the show there on March 23. But while Ms. d'Amboise received good notices, the production did not, and Mr. Weissler canceled. 
 Now, it seems, he is ready to roll the dice with a show that has had lukewarm reviews but nonetheless been very much in the news lately.
 ''Barry's a great marketer,'' Mr. Landesman said. ''And if he gets Christina Applegate back, he can do some marketing and have a show.''




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); BONE FRACTURES (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%) Theater; Theater

COMPANY: CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Clear Channel Communications Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%)

PERSON: Fran Weissler; Barry Weissler; Christina Applegate; Charlotte D'amboise; Jesse Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



634 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Museums; THE BUSINESS SIDE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Museums in a Row: A Happy Cluster or a Logjam?

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
LAST year, when a judge allowed the board of the Barnes Foundation to move its collection of Impressionist and Post-Impressionist art out of its current suburban Philadelphia location, the question was where it might go.
 The most obvious place was the Benjamin Franklin Parkway, which had been modeled after Paris's Champs-Elysees, with its wide boulevard cutting a diagonal swath, the magnificent Swann Fountain at its southeast end and the majestic Philadelphia Museum of Art atop a hill at the northwest, leading into the expansive Fairmount Park. 
 Unlike the Champs-Elysees, though, the parkway has never filled in with high-end shopping or dining. It has a few apartment buildings in the area, but over all its sidewalks are empty. Yet, in addition to the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the parkway has two other major museums -- the Franklin Institute and the Academy of Natural Sciences -- and the smaller Rodin Museum, dedicated to the sculptor Auguste Rodin. The Barnes seemed perfectly slotted for a site on the parkway, and now there are plans for another museum to be built there, too, one devoted to the sculptor Alexander Calder, a Philadelphia native. 
 ''I think that the more things you can do, the more ways you can educate yourself, the better it will be,'' said Anne d'Harnoncourt, director of the Philadelphia Museum of Art. ''The idea of a concentration of them is wonderful. I don't see it as a competition at all.''
 In fact, the idea of clustering museums together is as old as America's titular national museum complex, the Smithsonian Institution, which built its first museum in 1855 on the National Mall in Washington, and as new as the Science Fiction Museum and Hall of Fame, which opened last June near the Space Needle in Seattle.
 The Science Fiction Museum was built within the Frank Gehry-designed Experience Music Project, a museum dedicated to popular music that itself is only five years old. Largely financed by Paul G. Allen, the co-founder of Microsoft, both museums joined Seattle's Pacific Science Center and the Children's Museum Seattle on the underused grounds of the 1962 World's Fair.
 The area between the Capitol and the Washington Monument was once museum-free. Now called the National Mall, it is lined with museums that fall under the Smithsonian's umbrella, the most recent one being the National Museum of the American Indian, which opened last September.
 ''Unlike in other places, Congress would make sure the buildings were situated where they were each time,'' said Linda St. Thomas, a Smithsonian spokeswoman. ''They landed there for historic reasons, but now that they are all there, it is really convenient for visitors. They can float in and out and see a whole lot.''
 In general, though, the clustering of museums is a new phenomenon. In the 19th and early 20th centuries, museums were often for-profit ventures. Operators wanted their own spaces. These days, cities themselves have different agendas when it comes to culture.
 ''Museum people started looking at things like shopping malls, where increased foot traffic helped everyone. They realized that being together would help attendance at all nearby organizations,'' said Edward H. Able, president and chief executive of the American Association of Museums. ''There is another aspect, too. Cities are trying to rebrand themselves as cultural destinations. If your museums are far apart from one another, you can't get people to think of you as that. You get more of an impact if your cultural institutions are all visible in a cluster.''
 Aside from museums, Philadelphia was a cluster-rich place in other areas, too. Its theater, music and performing arts sites center around what the city calls the Avenue of the Arts, which is several blocks below City Hall. Its sports complex at the southern end of the city has two arenas, a football stadium and a baseball stadium in such close proximity they all share parking. The city also has a jewelry district, a food-distribution district and a historic district. 
 The historic district, in the square mile surrounding Independence Hall, has had three spurts of museum clustering in the last 50 years or so. In the 1950's, several square blocks were cleared of dilapidated housing and commercial buildings to open up Independence National Historical Park. Then, in preparation for the nation's bicentennial celebration in 1976, the National Park Service added a Ben Franklin museum near Independence Hall, the Liberty Bell was moved into its own pavilion nearby, and several small ethnic museums sprang up in the neighborhood.
 As the 21st century approached, the city rethought the historic area again. In the last three years, three major structures -- the National Constitution Center, a visitors center with historical displays and an expanded blocklong building housing the Liberty Bell -- were built within two blocks of Independence Hall.
 Sometimes, though, what might seem like an embarrassment of riches turns into a logjam.
 ''Is it a myriad, a plethora or something else?'' said Meryl Levitz, president and chief executive of the Greater Philadelphia Tourism Marketing Corporation. ''The museums, from the Art Museum to the Academy of Natural History, could be a string of pearls, but, on the other hand, can you make them into a crossover? It's all in how you promote them.''
 Ms. Levitz said that especially in the historic district, there are too many small museums for even the most avid visitor to see in the usual one- or two-day visit to Philadelphia. In the parkway area, people either from the area or from out of town rarely visit more than one attraction in a day, if only because they have invested $10 or more a person for admissions. Even at the Smithsonian in Washington, where admission is free, out-of-towners average seeing only 2.5 museums a day.
 The planners of Cleveland's Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum went counter to the clustering trend when they built downtown along the waterfront a decade ago. The cultural institutions were about five miles from the city, almost suburban. Cleveland's downtown was dying, said Terry Stewart, president of the museum, and needed a signal attraction.
 ''We get 90 percent of our visitors from out of town,'' he said. ''It was something important for Cleveland to have that.''
 Subsequently, a science center and a new football stadium have joined the museum to the west, and there are plans for more commercial and entertainment development to the east.
 ''It didn't start out as a cluster, but now we see we were a catalyst here. Cleveland is much more vibrant downtown than it was even seven or eight years ago,'' Mr. Stewart said.
 About seven or eight years ago, too, the area around three major museums in Chicago -- the Shedd Aquarium, the Field Museum and the Adler Planetarium and Astronomy Museum -- was a traffic and logistical mess. A six-lane highway, Lake Shore Drive, cut between the museums, discouraging visitors from crossing from one to another and limiting parking. In the late 1990's, the city moved Lake Shore Drive to the west and put parkland and parking in its place.
 ''Now we have this grand lakefront property with three museums instead of a mess of roads thwarting people from coming,'' said Paul H. Knappenberger Jr., the president of the Adler Planetarium. ''We do cross-promotions. We have summer camps together. Even when someone just chooses to go to one a day, and 70 percent or so do that, they know they can get to another one the next time they are in town.''
 Ms. d'Harnoncourt of the Philadelphia Museum of Art can't wait for her alleged competition to arrive on Benjamin Franklin Parkway. The example she cites is Paris. 
 ''Can anyone say it's bad to have the Louvre, the Orangerie, the Jeu de Paume and the Orsay within walking distance?'' she said. ''That's what it will be like here. That is a dream.''


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Sabina Louise Pierce for The New York Times [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10]
William Thomas Cain for The New York Times [6]
 Jessica Griffin/Associated Press [7])Chart/Map: ''Cultural Multiplexes''Cities hoping to use museums as engines of economic development try to steer them into clusters, on the theory that a range of artistic attractions will make the area more appealing -- the way multiple department stores do in a mall. Philadelphia already has a cluster centered around Independence Hall. Now that a judge has given the Barnes Foundation permission to exhibit its collection of Impressionist paintings outside of its suburban gallery, the city is counting on it to create a critical museum mass along Benjamin Franklin Parkway.Map of Philadelphia highlighting museums.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); SCULPTURE (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES (56%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: PAUL ALLEN (50%); FRANK GEHRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



635 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 559 words

PERSON: Harold Cruse

HEADLINE: Harold Cruse, 89, Social Critic And Fervent Black Nationalist

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT

 BODY:
Harold Cruse, an outspoken social and cultural critic who was best known for his angry collection of essays, ''The Crisis of the Negro Intellectual,'' died Saturday in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 89. The cause was congestive heart failure, his companion, Mara Julius, said. 
 Largely self-educated and widely read, Mr. Cruse taught African-American studies at the University of Michigan and was one of the first blacks to get tenure at a major university without a college degree. He ranged over many subjects in his writing: politics, radicalism, music, culture and the situation of black people in America. 
 In ''Crisis'' he summed up a set of positions that left him isolated from almost everyone else in the political spectrum of the mid-1960's.
 He was against integration. ''Integrate with whom?'' he asked. He deplored the black-power movement as being all slogans and no political program. He opposed the back-to-Africa campaign, although he had grudging admiration for Garveyism. Despite a brief association with the Communist Party, he abominated Communists and liberals -- in particular, Jewish intellectuals, whom he blamed for black anti-Semitism. He was critical of almost everyone, from James Baldwin to Ossie Davis to Lorraine Hansberry, for accepting too readily the premises of white culture.
 He concluded that blacks must form their own political, economic, social and cultural base to work on all fronts toward an accommodation with capitalism as it was modified by the New Deal. 
 Mr. Cruse's book stirred up strong reactions in many quarters. But Christopher Lasch wrote in The New York Review of Books that he agreed with book's thesis, as he put, ''that intellectuals must play a central role in movements for radical change.'' A new edition of ''Crisis'' will be published next month.
 A year after its original publication, Mr. Cruse was asked to lecture at the University of Michigan, where he became involved in the African-American studies program until his retirement in the mid-1980's as professor emeritus. 
 Harold Wright Cruse was born in Petersburg, Va., on March 8, 1916, and moved with his father, a railway porter, to New York City as a young child. After graduating from high school, he worked at several jobs but was ambitious to become a writer. He served in the Army in Europe during World War II.
 After the war, he attended the City College of New York briefly but never graduated. In 1947, he joined the Communist Party and wrote drama and literary criticism for The Daily Worker, although he was never doctrinaire. In the 1950's, he wrote several plays, and in the mid-1960's he was co-founder, with LeRoi Jones (now Amiri Baraka), of the Black Arts Theater and School in Harlem.The more he learned about the arts, the more he deplored what he saw as a white appropriation of black culture, particularly as exemplified by George Gershwin's folk opera ''Porgy and Bess.'' He called for blacks to embrace their cultural uniqueness.
 His later books include ''Rebellion or Revolution?'', ''Plural but Equal: A Critical Study of Blacks and Minorities and America's Plural Society'' and ''The Essential Harold Cruse: A Reader'' edited by William Jelani Cobb with a foreword by Stanley Crouch.
 In addition to Ms. Julius, his survivors include two half sisters, Shirley Toke, of Richmond, Va., and Catherine Jones, of Petersburg.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Harold Cruse, about 1968. (Photo by Willa Percival/William Morrow) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); LITERARY CRITICISM (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); LITERATURE (76%); WRITERS (75%); THEATER (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); WORLD WAR II (60%); HEART DISEASE (57%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (57%) Deaths (Obituaries); Blacks

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

Christopher Lehmann-Haupt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



636 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: In the Name of Politics

BYLINE: By John C. Danforth. 
John C. Danforth, a former United States senator from Missouri, resigned in January as United States ambassador to the United Nations. He is an Episcopal minister.

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS 

 BODY:
BY a series of recent initiatives, Republicans have transformed our party into the political arm of conservative Christians. The elements of this transformation have included advocacy of a constitutional amendment to ban gay marriage, opposition to stem cell research involving both frozen embryos and human cells in petri dishes, and the extraordinary effort to keep Terri Schiavo hooked up to a feeding tube. 
 Standing alone, each of these initiatives has its advocates, within the Republican Party and beyond. But the distinct elements do not stand alone. Rather they are parts of a larger package, an agenda of positions common to conservative Christians and the dominant wing of the Republican Party. 
 Christian activists, eager to take credit for recent electoral successes, would not be likely to concede that Republican adoption of their political agenda is merely the natural convergence of conservative religious and political values. Correctly, they would see a causal relationship between the activism of the churches and the responsiveness of Republican politicians. In turn, pragmatic Republicans would agree that motivating Christian conservatives has contributed to their successes.
 High-profile Republican efforts to prolong the life of Ms. Schiavo, including departures from Republican principles like approving Congressional involvement in private decisions and empowering a federal court to overrule a state court, can rightfully be interpreted as yielding to the pressure of religious power blocs.
 In my state, Missouri, Republicans in the General Assembly have advanced legislation to criminalize even stem cell research in which the cells are artificially produced in petri dishes and will never be transplanted into the human uterus. They argue that such cells are human life that must be protected, by threat of criminal prosecution, from promising research on diseases like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and juvenile diabetes.
 It is not evident to many of us that cells in a petri dish are equivalent to identifiable people suffering from terrible diseases. I am and have always been pro-life. But the only explanation for legislators comparing cells in a petri dish to babies in the womb is the extension of religious doctrine into statutory law.
 I do not fault religious people for political action. Since Moses confronted the pharaoh, faithful people have heard God's call to political involvement. Nor has political action been unique to conservative Christians. Religious liberals have been politically active in support of gay rights and against nuclear weapons and the death penalty. In America, everyone has the right to try to influence political issues, regardless of his religious motivations. 
 The problem is not with people or churches that are politically active. It is with a party that has gone so far in adopting a sectarian agenda that it has become the political extension of a religious movement.
 When government becomes the means of carrying out a religious program, it raises obvious questions under the First Amendment. But even in the absence of constitutional issues, a political party should resist identification with a religious movement. While religions are free to advocate for their own sectarian causes, the work of government and those who engage in it is to hold together as one people a very diverse country. At its best, religion can be a uniting influence, but in practice, nothing is more divisive. For politicians to advance the cause of one religious group is often to oppose the cause of another.
 Take stem cell research. Criminalizing the work of scientists doing such research would give strong support to one religious doctrine, and it would punish people who believe it is their religious duty to use science to heal the sick.
 During the 18 years I served in the Senate, Republicans often disagreed with each other. But there was much that held us together. We believed in limited government, in keeping light the burden of taxation and regulation. We encouraged the private sector, so that a free economy might thrive. We believed that judges should interpret the law, not legislate. We were internationalists who supported an engaged foreign policy, a strong national defense and free trade. These were principles shared by virtually all Republicans. 
 But in recent times, we Republicans have allowed this shared agenda to become secondary to the agenda of Christian conservatives. As a senator, I worried every day about the size of the federal deficit. I did not spend a single minute worrying about the effect of gays on the institution of marriage. Today it seems to be the other way around.
 The historic principles of the Republican Party offer America its best hope for a prosperous and secure future. Our current fixation on a religious agenda has turned us in the wrong direction. It is time for Republicans to rediscover our roots.


GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CONSERVATISM (92%); POLITICS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHURCH & STATE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (77%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (77%); MARRIAGE LAW (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (77%); MARRIAGE (72%); LGBT RIGHTS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (63%); DIABETES (63%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) United States Politics and Government; Church-State Relations; Death and Dying; Life-Sustaining Support Systems, Withdrawal of; Conservatism (US Politics); First Amendment (US Constitution); Life-Sustaining Support Systems, Withdrawal of; United States Politics and Government

PERSON: John C Danforth; Terri Schiavo; Michael Schiavo; Bob Schindler; Mary Schindler

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



637 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Museums; THE BUSINESS SIDE; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Want to Get Big? Not So Fast, He Says

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
WHEN a county education department in Wiltshire, England, was planning to construct a new rehearsal, teaching and performance center, Adrian Ellis noted that there was already a similar institution just 30 miles away. His sage opinion: Don't build; buy some buses.
 Puncturing such expansionist balloons is all in a day's work for the British-born Mr. Ellis, a former economist. In the 15 years since he founded AEA Consulting, an arts advising company in New York and London, he has been counseling groups -- from performing arts organizations to museums in New York, Europe and elsewhere -- on everything from fund-raising to strategic planning to whether, when and how to grow bigger. 
 It isn't that Mr. Ellis always advises against getting larger. He merely tries to make sure that museums embark on their building projects with a clear sense of what they are getting into. ''I talk them through what it means to really do it,'' he said in a recent interview at a restaurant near his Lower Manhattan office. 
 ''It's all about informed consent,'' he added. ''Ultimately, what we're trying to do is to make sure they can make responsible decisions.''
 While capital building projects tapered off in the wake of 9/11 and the concurrent economic downturn, they are now the rage. 
 ''The building boom has been an extraordinary one, and it's worldwide,'' Mr. Ellis said. ''In the cultural sector, it's pretty much without parallel.''
 His sobering message may not be what museums with big dreams want to hear. But Mr. Ellis's clients say his unvarnished advice is not unwelcome. ''He's a reality check,'' said Charles Saumarez Smith, director of the National Gallery in London. ''I think it's healthy for every institution to have a good reality check.''
 Why the widespread urge to enlarge? Partly it is because the economy is stronger again and building projects tend to be strong magnets for donor dollars, Mr. Ellis said. Museums also argue that they need more space for their collections, although Mr. Ellis said this was not reason enough. ''No museum that I know has enough space to display its collection,'' he said. ''That, per se, is not a rationale for expansion.''
 Then there is that basic desire to keep up with the Joneses. ''Institutional ego is clearly a driver,'' he said. ''The question is, Is it a sensible driver? It can drive you over a cliff.''
 Museums and other cultural organizations have also become recognized as an engine for tourism and urban regeneration. 
 The Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain, and the Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles, both designed by Frank Gehry, have turned dormant neighborhoods into tourist destinations.
 ''Some of these building projects are truly transformational -- for organizations and communities,'' Mr. Ellis said.
 One result of successes like Bilbao, Mr. Ellis said, is what has come to be referred to as BHAG: Big Hairy Audacious Goals. But these stars in the eyes can blind institutions to some of the less glamorous considerations, like bigger buildings generally lead to higher operating costs.
 ''You build them and you've got to run the damn things,'' Mr. Ellis said. ''Every piece of capital has with it a revenue tail.''
 Anne Hawley, director of the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston, said that with the help of Mr. Ellis, her institution has thought hard about its long-term future in contemplating an addition to be designed by Mr. Piano. To finance the 56,000-square-foot addition, the museum is preparing a $100 million campaign for both capital and endowment. ''There is no romance in Adrian's approach,'' Ms. Hawley said.
 The J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, which opened its Richard Meier-designed complex eight years ago and is reopening its Malibu villa next winter to house Roman antiquities, is thinking about its own future with the aid of Mr. Ellis. As the Guggenheim Museum continues to expand with satellites all over the world, for example, ''We're asking ourselves, does that pattern make any sense for us?'' said Barry Munitz, the president and chief executive of the J. Paul Getty Trust. ''Do we want other sites? Do we want other partners?''
 Perhaps the primary risk associated with expansion is its affect on a museum's core mission -- exhibiting, curating and acquiring art, Mr. Ellis said. ''The danger of an overbuilt sector is about the misallocation of resources,'' he said. ''There are institutions for which this is palpably the case,'' he added.
 Mr. Ellis declined to name names. ''To reveal the details would be to blow a hole in the business,'' he said. But he did call the Guggenheim an ''extreme'' example of a museum that has ventured far afield. ''What is the Aztecs doing at the Guggenheim in terms of the Guggenheim's original mission?'' he said, referring to the museum's recent exhibition ''The Aztec Empire.'' ''It's there because of the exigencies of the marketplace.
 ''Mission and market always pull you in different directions -- the art of running one of these institutions is finding the sweet spot,'' Mr. Ellis continued. ''As you turn up the volume, then the market considerations become that much larger, and it requires that much more ingenuity to protect the mission.''
 Mr. Munitz said that the Getty had been forced to make compromises, like cutting seven programs to four. ''If you have a finite budget and you find ways to build a glowing new facility, then you're making tradeoffs,'' he said.
 Mr. Ellis, a professorial-looking man with a beard and glasses, talks with rapid-fire enthusiasm about his work. Educated at University College Oxford and the London School of Economics, he served as a civil servant in the Treasury and the Cabinet Office in London from 1981 to 1986. Mr. Ellis then became responsible for planning and managing the establishment of the Design Museum, which opened on Butlers Wharf in London in 1989.
 He opened his company in 1990 and now employs 18 people, 10 in New York and 8 in London. Besides advising arts organizations, the firm counsels foundations, and urges all its clients to consider sociological as well as economic issues, like changing patterns of leisure time and the use of technology to get entertainment. ''They have as profound an impact on the cultural sector as boom and bust,'' Mr. Ellis said. 
 Two foundations in Arizona, for example, enlisted his help in evaluating how to finance culture in light of an increasing Hispanic population; a more mobile population that affects subscriber loyalty; and the growth of gated communities, which means people venture downtown less often. ''Institutions have to think about long-term audience trends,'' Mr. Ellis said.
 Big museums have an easier time growing, Mr. Ellis said. They attract media coverage, which generates income, which attracts leading exhibitions, which attracts top-flight staff, which attracts strong sponsors, which attracts philanthropists. ''They start off with a fundamental asset circle,'' Mr. Ellis said.
 Smaller institutions have ''a much tougher gig,'' he said. The circle, he said, is ''vicious, as opposed to a virtual circle.'' 
 For his dose of reality, Mr. Ellis charges a flat rate, ranging from $1,000 to $700,000, depending on the project's scope. ''Even our richest clients are broke,'' he said.

Things to Think About if You're Thinking About Expanding
 ADRIAN ELLIS, the founder of AEA Consulting, a company that advises arts organizations, has a few pointers for groups considering expansion. 

DON'T LEAVE THE ENDOWMENT FOR LAST. ''There is no better time to go for endowment than during a capital campaign,'' Mr. Ellis said.

KEEP BUILDING YOUR BOARD. Even as you move ahead with expansion plans, make sure you are cultivating and growing your annual giving, which is contributed income from the board and outside donors.

DIVERSIFY TO CREATE MORE EARNED INCOME. For example, rent out the space for events to generate income.
 So what happens when museums wave Mr. Ellis off and say they will worry about these practical concerns after the ribbon cutting. ''That,'' he said, ''is when you kind of look for the door.'' ROBIN POGREBIN


GRAPHIC: Photo: REALITY CHECK -- Adrian Ellis of AEA Consulting in his New York office, a voice of caution in an expanding museum universe. (Photo by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PAINTING (76%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (50%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (50%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (50%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (92%); EUROPE (77%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); SPAIN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



638 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: A City Gripped by Crisis and Enraptured by the Yankees

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:

'Ladies and Gentlemen, The Bronx Is Burning'
''1977, Baseball, Politics, and the Battle for the Soul of a City''
By Jonathan Mahler
Illustrated. 356 pages. Farrar, Straus &
Giroux. $25.
 It was Game 2 of the 1977 World Series, the Yankees locked in mortal struggle with the Dodgers. As night descended, ABC, broadcasting the game, cut to a helicopter camera for an overhead view of Yankee Stadium and the surrounding neighborhood, where, bizarrely, a large fire raged out of control. Howard Cosell intoned, ''There it is, ladies and gentlemen, the Bronx is burning.'' 
 Cosell's terse observation gave Jonathan Mahler a catchy title for his first book and a potent metaphor for a city gripped by crisis. The Yankees, powered by an expensive free agent named Reggie Jackson, would win the series and proceed to create a dynasty. 
 A lot more than baseball was at stake that night, as Mr. Mahler sees it in this ambitiously conceived, marvelously told but somewhat puzzling portrait of New York in 1977. The city needed a win in the worst way. If the Bronx was burning, so were large swaths of Brooklyn, notably Bushwick, which had imploded in a frenzy of looting and arson when an electrical failure plunged the city into total darkness on July 13. All summer, a crazed killer dubbed Son of Sam had preyed on young couples in Brooklyn, the Bronx and Queens. There were not enough firefighters or police officers to deal with either problem, because the city, virtually bankrupt, had laid off thousands of workers. There was an edge of desperation when New York fans chanted ''Reg-gie, Reg-gie.'' 
 Mr. Mahler starts with a thesis. New York, in the late 1970's, was facing the collapse of the great La Guardia consensus, a grand, quasi-socialist experiment that envisioned a city with free health care, free college education, city-run housing for the poor and working class, and a vast army of municipal employees working to provide a decent quality of life for blue-collar New Yorkers. By the end of the Lindsay years, the bill came due, and Abe Beame, John Lindsay's successor as mayor, could not find the money to pay it. In 1975, the hastily created Municipal Assistance Corporation, a team of financiers put together by Gov. Hugh Carey, bailed out the city and assumed oversight of its finances. The dream died, the New York magic was gone and no one could see when it might come back.
 Mr. Mahler weaves several stories into one grand narrative of the city's death and rebirth. Baseball and politics carry most of the weight. About a third of the book is devoted to the New York Yankees and their quest for lost glory under the volatile Billy Martin, hired as manager by the team's new owner, George Steinbrenner. Another third follows the campaign for the Democratic mayoral nomination, a free-for-all that pitted the hapless Beame against Bella Abzug, a fire-breathing progressive known for her bad temper and big hats, and two new faces, Mario Cuomo and Ed Koch. 
 Between these two long-running stories, Mr. Mahler sandwiches major events that changed the way New Yorkers saw their city and themselves. The blackout and the Son of Sam killing spree reinforced the idea that New York had slid out of control. Not content with bankruptcy, the gods had unleashed anarchy on a city that the rest of the country apparently regarded as both Sodom and Gomorrah. A ghoulish new cheerleader promoted this vision of the city in screaming headlines: The New York Post under its new owner, Rupert Murdoch. 
 Mr. Mahler relates these twice-told tales at a cracking pace. He has a talent for explaining complicated events economically, and an eye for the telling detail. Mr. Koch, he writes, ''often wore the teasing look of an uncle who was about to pull a penny from behind your ear.'' Ms. Abzug, canvassing for votes, ''was a full-contact campaigner, a polka-dotted beach ball bouncing from one outstretched hand to the next.'' That distinctive walk of Thurman Munson, the Yankees' catcher, is neatly described as a ''turbo-charged waddle.'' 
 Mr. Mahler is particularly persuasive on the psychodrama of the Yankees, and the folie a trois that made Martin, Steinbrenner and Jackson one of the most watchable shows in professional sports. It all comes back, in living color: Martin's seething resentments, Steinbrenner's infernal meddling, Jackson's stupendous home-run power and soaring ego. 
 The set piece on the blackout riots is a tour de force, a lurid Walpurgisnacht blending madness, murderous rage and surreal comedy. As darkness fell, looters came out in force. Recalling the scene in Bushwick, a police officer tells the author, ''If they had turned on the lights, it would have looked like the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade.'' In the Bronx, thieves drove away with 50 of 55 cars at a Pontiac dealership. In Bushwick, a trail of eyeballs on the street led to a looted taxidermist's shop. A Bronx priest who left his church to plead for calm returned to find that his altar had been stolen. 
 As his meandering subtitle suggests, Mr. Mahler casts his net very wide. He tries to get everything in, from Dean & DeLuca to Maxwell's Plum to ''Annie Hall.'' He gives the disco ball a few obligatory spins, pays a visit to Plato's Retreat and roams aimlessly around SoHo searching for deeper meanings, but it feels as though he's emptying out his notebook. He's often glib rather than smart, and breathless when he means to be dramatic. 
 In a last-ditch effort to tie up loose ends, Mr. Mahler anoints Mr. Koch, Mr. Murdoch, Mr. Steinbrenner and Mr. Jackson emblematic figures of the new New York. The idea is not nearly as compelling as the stories in which they have played pivotal roles, and which Mr. Mahler tells with such skill. In the end, the Yankees, however heroic, cannot carry the conceptual weight assigned to them. It's probably better not to think too deeply about Mr. Jackson's three home runs in Game 6. Just savor the moment. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jonathan Mahler (Photo by Greg Martin/Farrar, Straus & Giroux)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); LITERATURE (74%); BAILOUTS (74%); ARSON (73%); MAYORS (73%); POWER FAILURES (65%); LAYOFFS (58%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (93%)

PERSON: William Grimes; Jonathan Mahler

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



639 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Insurance Chiefs Must Swear to Some Deals

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
The New York State Insurance Department announced yesterday that it would require the chief executives of insurance companies it regulates to certify, under oath, that certain insurance transactions were conducted for legitimate economic reasons and not as a way to manipulate financial reporting results. 
 The directive, issued as the insurance industry is under scrutiny by federal and state regulators, applies to finite reinsurance. Insurance companies buy reinsurance to offload some of their risk. Finite reinsurance is used to try to manage expensive claims over time. 
 Regulators are increasingly concerned that finite reinsurance is being used to smooth earnings and misrepresent a company's financial position. The department wants to make sure ''proper accounting treatment has been applied,'' to finite reinsurance contracts, said Howard Mills, the acting superintendent of insurance for the state. 
 Consequences for noncompliance could include monetary penalties, suspending an insurer's license or, in the worst case, revoking a license. 
 Regulators have been examining finite reinsurance as part of a larger investigation of American International Group. That investigation was initiated when Berkshire Hathaway's General Re unit brought a particular transaction to the attention of federal regulators, who in turn brought other federal and state regulators into the inquiry. That investigation has broadened considerably and the Securities and Exchange Commission, the New York attorney general and the state insurance department are currently examining dozens of transactions between A.I.G. and 13 to 15 onshore and offshore reinsurers to see if there are problematic transactions. A.I.G. is cooperating with the investigation.
 A.I.G.'s internal review of transactions has uncovered about 10 deemed to be questionable, people briefed on the company's review said. The company also acknowledged in a conference call earlier this week that it had misled the New York insurance department in filings about a transaction with a reinsurer, Union Excess Reinsurance, the people who were briefed said. Union Excess, which is registered in Barbados, does all its business with A.I.G.
 Mr. Mills declined to comment on any specifics of the investigation. 
 The requirement that chief executives testify to the legitimacy of finite transactions is similar to a section of the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley law, which requires chief executives to certify the company's financial statements. Under the state insurance department's directive, chief executives will be required to testify under penalty of perjury that any finite reinsurance transaction involves a legitimate transfer of risk and has been properly accounted for. In addition, the insurers must testify that they have proper documentation indicating ''that neither written nor oral agreements are in effect that would potentially alter a reinsurance contract's terms,'' a statement read. The so-called circular to insurers is effective immediately. 
 The New York insurance department has been examining finite reinsurance for almost nine months with an eye toward improving disclosure and accounting practices. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (95%); FINANCIAL REINSURANCE (92%); REINSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (91%); WITNESSES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); EXCESS & SURPLUS LINES INSURANCE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); LICENSES & PERMITS (76%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Insurance; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Insurance

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%) Insurance Department (NYS)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); BRK.B (NYSE) (55%); BRK.A (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (55%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (55%)

PERSON: Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); BARBADOS (79%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



640 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: In the Arch's Shadow, Signs of Revival

BYLINE: By LINDA TUCCI

 BODY:
Framed on the east by Eero Saarinen's forward-looking Gateway Arch and on the west by the majestic Romanesque-style Union Station, downtown St. Louis might be the most studied 2.91 square miles in the nation. At least a dozen reports have been commissioned in recent years to dissect its shortcomings and point the way to a brighter future.
 Invariably, those efforts delivered the same bad news: despite its status as Missouri's largest office center and the hub for three successful professional sports teams, downtown was in dire straits. Last year, a California consultant pronounced the downtown ''one of the most lifeless and uninteresting'' in America. 
 Cut off from the Mississippi River by Interstate 70, the business district was marooned from its past. Large corporations were vacating to suburban locations or swallowed by out-of-state acquirers. Foot traffic had all but evaporated. 
 For St. Louisans, the decline was all the more unnerving because it seemed that other waterfront cities -- Cincinnati, Cleveland and Pittsburgh, for example -- were becoming increasingly lively. Worse still, tens of millions of square feet of commercial space in the downtown core sat vacant. The brick and stone edifices -- some of them national landmarks -- were crumbling.
 But, increasingly, civic leaders are convinced that the worst has passed. In the last six years, a comprehensive plan to reinvigorate downtown has been set in motion, and more than $2.5 billion has been committed to 125 projects. While many initiatives are still in their infancy, a few are far enough along that national developers are said to be taking notice, investing hundreds of millions of dollars in the future of downtown St. Louis.
 W. Thomas Reeves, executive director of Downtown Now, a public-private partnership working to rejuvenate the area, said that 2004 was the tipping point for the revitalization of downtown St. Louis. ''It's no longer a conversation; it's real construction,'' he said.
 Notable projects include a new federal courthouse, a convention center hotel and a new baseball stadium scheduled to be finished by next spring, but local experts think the future of downtown will have less to do with these blockbusters than with a fundamental shift in the city's approach to development.
 ''I think the biggest change is that we're not just focused on one project,'' said Barbara Geisman, who heads economic development for Mayor Francis G. Slay. ''We are addressing all of the issues that prevented us from achieving critical mass in the past.'' 
 The sea change can be traced to several critical events in the late 1990's. In 1997, after hundreds of community meetings, St. Louis 2004, an organization led by former Senator John C. Danforth, came out with an action plan for the region that included as one its top priorities the revival of downtown. That same year, Clarence Harmon, the mayor who preceded Mr. Slay, appointed Downtown Now, a committee that included representatives from St. Louis 2004, the area's largest business organizations, downtown corporations and private citizens. 
 Perhaps most important, the Missouri Legislature and Gov. Mel Carnahan enacted a state historic tax credit that when added to the federal historic tax credit made it much more attractive to turn vacant or underused old buildings into housing, hotels and retail space. 
 In 2000, Downtown Now hired Mr. Reeves, a banker who had overseen Mercantile Bank's real estate lending, as its executive director and started a $1.2 billion plan that focused on four downtown areas: Washington Avenue, the Old Post Office District, Laclede's Landing and the Gateway Mall. 
 ''What is happening is completely fueled by the state historic credit being added to the federal credit, which could only happen if you had this tremendous store of historic buildings, all of which were on the National Register or eligible for listing,'' said Carolyn H. Toft, the president of the Landmarks Association of St. Louis and a framer of the state credit. 
 Oddly, the lack of downtown activity for so long kept much of the city's trove of old buildings in suspended animation. Otherwise, they might have been torn down, Ms. Toft said. 
 The first redevelopment happened on Washington Avenue, where old garment district warehouses, with their big floor areas, made for relatively easy conversion to lofts and provided plenty of space for first floor retailing. 
 ''They were all vacant, and there is no way offices were going back into those,'' said Richard C. Ward, chairman of Development Strategies, a St. Louis consulting firm specializing in urban development. ''That's why I say thank goodness for the residential market because you're never going to use these warehouse buildings as warehouses.'' 
 A report issued last year states that since 2000, 36 historic buildings have reopened or are under reconstruction, adding 1,863 residential units to the downtown market. For a city that lost 12 percent of its population from 1990 to 2000, the influx has been hailed as a turnaround. Another 1,050 units are coming on the market in 2005 alone, and 1,359 more are planned.
 Every residential property developed since 2000 projected through 2006 is a renovation of a historic building, and most have had substantial support from the historic tax credits. Approximately 5 million square feet -- of 15 million vacant square feet -- has been consumed. Of 9,610 residents downtown, 4,644 live in market-rate properties. Of those living in the market-rate housing, 82 percent are college graduates, with 30 percent hold postgraduate degrees. 
 ''I do think there is something very real here,'' Mr. Ward said. ''People are making investment decisions to live downtown as fast as they can build the darn units.'' 
 Part of the attraction is price. The average price per square foot for condominiums is $150, and the monthly rent for apartments is $1.05 per square foot.
 The market is beginning to show signs that it can also attract an older, more wealthy buyer. Craig Heller, one of the first loft condominium developers downtown, recently sold a penthouse condominium for $750,000 -- or $225 a square foot. ''Somebody reading this in New York would laugh, but for us it's good,'' he said. ''It's a nice thing because it shows this kind of living is not just the kids.'' 
 Along with the people has come the first wave of new restaurants and retail. ''We've opened seven new retail establishments since July of 2004 and about that number of restaurants, and we have an equivalent number that may open in the next six months,'' said James Cloar, president of Downtown St. Louis Partnership. ''It's getting to where many of these restaurants on the weekend, you can't get in.'' 
 In addition to Washington Avenue, Downtown Now has focused on reviving the Old Post Office and Custom House, which anchors an entire block in the nine-block-long area known as the Old Post Office District. Set back by broad sidewalks and set apart by its Second Empire style and granite facade, the national landmark was operated until recently by the General Services Administration and was scheduled to be closed. Now, it is undergoing a $77 million renovation for use by businesses, educational institutions and courts and the construction of a 1,000-car parking garage. 
 The deal took five years to work out; it involves $28 million in corporate tax credits and a raft of federal, state and other commercial tax credits, and it comes with its own controversy. To make way for the garage, another historic building, the Century, was razed, to the dismay of preservationists, like Ms. Toft. ''It's not ironic; it's irrational,'' she declared. 
 Leading the development is the financier Steven J. Stogel of DFC Group, a consulting and development firm, and Mark Schnuck of Desco, the commercial real estate arm of the Schnuck Markets, a regional supermarket chain with $2 billion in revenue. Mr. Schnuck's brothers, Craig and Scott C., have headed two powerful business organizations in the city: Civic Progress and Regional Chamber and Growth Association. 
 ''We're St. Louisans and we really felt there was a civic responsibility to try and get involved in some way or another and trying to be a catalyst for this redevelopment,'' Mark Schnuck said. ''It is such a skinny deal, that is one with a potential return rather limited in light of the size of the property. ''You have a building that is 248,000 square feet, but there's only about 135,000 square feet that's usable because it's such a high cube and large common areas.'' 
 So far, 70 percent of the space has been leased, mostly by institutions and smaller companies -- including the Missouri Court of Appeals, Webster University and The St. Louis Business Journal -- that were already downtown.
 The blighted blocks surrounding the Old Post Office have also undergone a conversion to residential use, with another one million previously vacant square feet already renovated or out for bid, including projects from two major investors: a $14 million conversion of the old St. Louis Board of Education building into lofts by Steven and Michael Roberts, and the $52 million Paul Brown Loft Apartments, done by John Steffen of Pyramid Construction. 
 Now, the biggest worry for downtown is the office market, Mr. Ward and others said. 
 ''The good side of the story is the residential is going to create a whole new atmosphere downtown,'' Mr. Ward said. ''It's not going to feel like a dead place. More young people are saying that's the place to be. And that will eventually -- I don't know how quickly -- accrue to the office market.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Old Post Office and Custom House on Olive Street is part of an extensive redevelopment plan for downtown St .Louis. Planners are also focusing on Washington Avenue, Laclede's Landing and the Gateway Mall. (Photo by Tim Parker for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (73%); BASEBALL (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); SPORTS (55%); SPORTS & RECREATION (55%); SUBURBS (53%); HISTORIC SITES (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (94%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



641 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Quake Damage Limited to Small Area; Hundreds Dead

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: MEDAN, Indonesia, Wednesday, March 30 

 BODY:
The damage from the earthquake that struck Monday night, one of the most powerful in a century, appears to be confined mostly to two tiny islands off the Indonesian coast, officials said Tuesday. But they said damage to the only runway there and poor visibility was slowing the delivery of aid and medical care. 
 Officials said 330 or more bodies had been found on the hardest hit island, Nias, and its neighbor, Simeulue, but government and relief agencies said the toll could climb to more than 1,000.
 The islands' remoteness and a breakdown of electrical power and communications hampered the flow of reliable information, but by early Wednesday, relief planes and boats were beginning to arrive. 
 The earthquake was measured at a magnitude of 8.7, substantially less than the shock on Dec. 26, which measured 9.0 and sent tsunami waves through the surrounding oceans, taking the lives of close to 270,000 people. Each whole-number increase in the magnitude of a quake indicates a tenfold increase in the amount of ground motion.
 Tsunamis generated by the quake on Monday amounted to little more than ripples, perhaps generating waves up to several yards high that might have raked some isolated coasts near the quake's epicenter. But most deaths seemed to have been caused by the shock of the quake itself, rather than the waves. 
 Some reports indicated that tsunamis might have reached the inland side of Simeulue, and possibly parts of the Sumatra coast, according to Eric Geist, a geophysicist for the United States Geological Survey in Menlo Park, Calif.
 He and other scientists also said there was clear evidence that a tightly focused tsunami burst southwest into the open waters of the southern Indian Ocean, passing well south of Sri Lanka and well to the west of Australia.
 But there was little comparison to the monster waves spawned by the December quake. Scientists said there were a number of reasons for the difference. 
 The latest quake, though enormous, appears to have been centered so deep under the seabed that it did not give a potent shove to the waters above. The quake also occurred beneath relatively shallow waters, reducing the volume of water disturbed, experts said.
 Another limiting factor may have been that the epicenter was almost directly beneath Nias, which would have limited the potential piston-like impact on the sea and accounted for the island's violent shaking, which caused heavy damage and hundreds of deaths. 
 Budi Atmaji Adiputro, a spokesman for Indonesia's Coordinating Agency for National Disaster Relief, said rescuers had found 330 bodies, according to The Associated Press, although the toll was expected to rise as more bodies were discovered.
 Vice President Jusuf Kalla told El Shinta radio in Jakarta on Monday that the toll could rise as high as 2,000. 
 Aerial film of the islands showed damaged and collapsed homes but not the kind of devastation caused by the tsunami in December. On Indonesian television, residents were seen clustered by the sides of roads and carrying stretchers of the dead and injured on the backs of motorbikes.
 Some dug in the rubble, apparently in search of people who had been trapped.
 Plumes of white smoke filled the air, apparently from fires caused by the earthquake, making it difficult for aircraft to land, but first aid and rescue aircraft began arriving Tuesday and picked up the pace on Wednesday, and ferries were on their way with emergency supplies.
 Hardest hit was the small city of Gunung Sitoli on Nias, where the municipal housing director, R. Zebua, told Indonesian reporters that all electricity and communications had been lost. ''About 95 percent of the city's infrastructure has been destroyed,'' he said.
 A Catholic priest named Adi told the Indonesian news agency Detik that with electrical power gone, rescuers were working in the light of candles to help the injured. He said that as of Tuesday evening, the island had received little help from the military. The military and private aid agencies said they were preparing to send large stocks of supplies.
 Some people here in Medan, in northern Sumatra, and in other areas fled shelters where they had lived since losing their homes in December, rushing in panic for higher ground. In Banda Aceh, just north of here, where the December tsunami leveled most buildings, local television showed streets choked with panicked people seeking shelter on higher ground or in the solid structures of mosques. On Nias Island, thousands of people were reported to be still taking shelter on higher ground.
 Countries like India and Thailand had already begun to set up early warning systems, and sirens sounded in some places. But nations in the region have not succeeded so far in coordinating plans for such networks. 
 ''Even though we don't have our systems ready yet, but we have the monitoring process that is quite good enough, but we will now be better by the end of this month,'' said Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra of Thailand, speaking in English in an evident attempt to reassure potential tourists, who are vital to the nation's economy.
 President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono of Indonesia put off a planned visit to Australia and said he would visit the damaged areas this week.
 The United States promised new assistance in addition to the hundreds of millions of dollars in aid it pledged after the December tsunami.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Haogombowo sat with the body of his wife, Lisbet Sihanturi, in a makeshift morgue in Gunung Sitoli on Nias Island, hit hardest by the quake. (Photo by Suzanne Plunkett/Associated Press)Chart/Map highlights the Indian Ocean and surrounding areas as well as a computer model of the resulting wave heights (created by the quake) and their direction. (Waves one foot or more [estimated])(Source by Institute of Geological and Nuclear Sciences)Maps of Nias Island, Indonesia, and the surrounding area highlight the epicenter of Monday's 8.7 magnitude earthquake: The earthquake's epicenter was off Sumatra, near Nias and Simeulue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (91%); EARTHQUAKES (91%); TSUNAMIS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); OCEANS (88%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (69%) Earthquakes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (54%)

PERSON: Seth Mydans

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (58%) SUMATRA, INDONESIA (99%); INDIAN OCEAN (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) INDONESIA (99%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Indonesia; Nias Island (Indonesia); Simeulue Island (Indonesia); Indian Ocean

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



642 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: A Private Eye of the Old (i.e, Chic) School

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
It has been a long time since a television detective was stylish, arch and ensconced in a suite of sleek, expensive offices. ''NYPD Blue'' helped cement the trend of rough-edged investigators, and these days, whether on ''CSI'' or ''Law & Order,'' gumshoes are gritty and studiously devoid of glamour. Even on ''Monk,'' a lighthearted crime show set in San Francisco, the private detective's obsessive-compulsive disorder blocks him from enjoying his bourgeois lifestyle.
 ''Eyes,'' a new series on ABC tonight starring Tim Daly as Harlan Judd, the boss of a swanky private-investigation firm, has a 1980's feel. Judd is a suave, smart-alecky spendthrift in the tradition of ''Hart to Hart,'' ''Magnum P.I.'' or ''Remington Steele.'' His employees are as chic and attractive as the lawyers on ''L.A. Law.'' 
 But even on television, the last two decades have left a mark: evocations of Champagne wishes and caviar dreams are not as serene as they were in the Reagan era of junk bonds and Wall Street titans. The S.&L. scandal, insider-trading convictions, the collapse of the dot-com economy and other financial plagues have taken their toll on prime-time fantasy.
 ABC's hot new drama, ''Desperate Housewives,'' is a throwback to the era of sizzling nighttime soap operas like ''Dynasty,'' but it also reflects a more contemporary fascination with failure. Fabulously wealthy husbands go to jail for tax evasion, and women who give up their careers to be full-time suburban moms steal their children's Ritalin to get through the day. 
 ''Eyes'' has a similar darkness veining its carefree spirit. Behind a gleaming facade, Judd's firm, Judd Risk Management, is in severe debt and in danger of being taken over by Judd's rival and former boss. Beneath the saucy banter and high-tech sleuthing, friends with hidden agendas do unforgivable things to one another, and brutal violence is a real and looming threat. 
 Some of the series's slick look and saturnine sensibility can be traced to its chief writer, John McNamara, who created ''Fastlane,'' a short-lived ''Miami Vice''-style cop show for Fox, and the even less successful ''Profit,'' a much-debated 1996 drama whose hero was an amoral, scheming business executive. Fox pulled that show after four weeks. This series, at least, has a better known and more engaging leading man. 
 Mr. Daly, whose last television series was ''Wings,'' a sitcom set in the Nantucket airport, has not aged noticeably since that show went off the air in 1997, but he has acquired a tougher sheen that suits his new persona as an upscale private eye. Judd behaves as a reckless, arrogant maverick, but there is always a good reason for unreasonable behavior that he keeps hidden from view, or as he puts it to his alluring lawyer, Leslie Town (Laura Leighton), ''There is always a story behind the story.'' 
 On tonight's premiere, a prospective client tells Judd that his chief financial officer stole $100 million from their publicly traded company. ''Have you told the police about this?'' Judd asks the tycoon, who admits he has not. ''Well, you should definitely contact them,'' Judd says, then pauses a beat. ''If you never want to see your money again.''
 When Town asks why the thief is not behind bars, Judd explains: ''Stealing $100 million is not a crime. It's the lead story on CNN.''
 He assigns his sexiest investigator, Nora Gage (Garcelle Beauvais-Nilon), to track the embezzler, an assignment that allows her to slip lipstick and a handgun into her purse and sashay through Beverly Hills in a range of disguises. Judd's senior partner, Chris Didion (Rick Worthy), is an African-American gay man. In the first episode he is sidelined from the white collar embezzlement case to help a former lover who is set to testify as an eyewitness to a hate crime and is under threat from neo-Nazi skinhead defendants. It's a plot line with more political virtue than narrative suspense.
 Mostly, the fun of ''Eyes'' lies in watching ABC take another shot at combining 80's glitz with HBO-driven sex and violence. 

'Eyes'
ABC, tonight at 10, Eastern and Pacific times; 9, Central time.

Creator and executive producer, John McNamara. A McNamara Paper Products production in association with Warner Bros. Television.

WITH: Tim Daly (Harlan Judd), Garcelle Beauvais-Nilon (Nora Gage), A.J. Langer (Meg Bardo), Laura Leighton (Leslie Town), Eric Mabius (Jeff McCann), Rick Worthy (Chris Didion), Natalie Zea (Trish Agermeyer).


CORRECTION-DATE: March 31, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday with a television review of ''Eyes,'' a detective series on ABC, misidentified the actress shown. She was Laura Leighton, who plays a lawyer, not Garcelle Beauvais-Nilon, who plays an investigator.
 The review referred incorrectly to an earlier series, ''Wings,'' that featured Tim Daly, the star of ''Eyes.'' It was his last hit series; ''The Fugitive'' was his last series over all.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tim Daly, as Harlan Judd, the head of Judd Risk Management, and Garcelle Beauvais-Nilon, one of his investigators, on ''Eyes'' on ABC. (Photo by Mitchell Haddad/ABC)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TRENDS (89%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (76%); BONDS (75%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (73%); LAWYERS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (70%); TAX FRAUD (69%); CHILDREN (67%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (66%); INSIDER TRADING (65%); RISK MANAGEMENT (65%); EXECUTIVES (61%); OBSESSIVE COMPULSIVE DISORDER (56%) Television; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Daley, Tim

PERSON: Alessandra Stanley

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



643 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Share Prices Sink, With Nasdaq at New Low for the Year

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks touched new lows for the year yesterday as higher oil prices reignited fears about corporate profits, while heavy equipment makers like Caterpillar tumbled. 
 The Nasdaq composite index dropped to a new low for 2005, closing at its lowest level since last October. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index hit a low for the year before recouping some losses, while the Dow ended at its lowest in about two months. 
 Caterpillar tumbled $4.42, or 4.7 percent, to $89.80, after Morgan Stanley issued a report saying that such stocks may be near their peak. The manufacturer Ingersoll-Rand fell $1.79, or 2.2 percent, to $78.98. 
 A rebound in the price of crude oil also hurt stocks. 
 Crude for May delivery settled up 18 cents at $54.23 a barrel in New York, reversing an earlier fall. High oil prices hurt corporate profits and consumer spending and generally weigh on equities. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 79.95 points, or 0.8 percent, to 10,405.70. 
 The S.&P. 500 dropped 8.92 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,165.36, and the Nasdaq index dropped 18.64 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,973.88. 
 Also dragging on stock markets was a report that consumer confidence fell slightly in March, hurt by higher gasoline prices. 
 In addition, investors were cautious ahead of a keenly anticipated jobs report for March, which is due Friday. 
 ''There are continuing concerns about the possibility of higher inflation down the road, while investors are clearly focused on the data on Friday on payroll,'' said Ned Riley, chief investment officer of Riley Asset Management. 
 Mr. Riley added that there was ''still some disappointment that we haven't seen a greater price erosion'' in oil. 
 ''Today's weakness prevails in the steels, metals and capital goods manufacturers, which have been the darlings of the market for an extended period of time,'' he said. 
 The mining equipment maker Joy Global dropped $3.31, or 9.2 percent, to $32.69, and the construction equipment maker JLG Industries fell $1.55, or 6.8 percent, to $21.18. 
 The business systems company NCR slid $6.50, or 17.2 percent, to $31.40 after Hewlett-Packard named NCR's chief executive, Mark V. Hurd, to succeed Carleton S. Fiorina, who was ousted as chief executive in February. Hewlett-Packard rose 10.1 percent, to $21.78. 
 Shares of Morgan Stanley fell $1.87, or 3.4 percent, to $53.61. Eight of its former partners, who earlier this month quietly asked the board to replace Philip J. Purcell, the chairman and chief executive, went public, saying management changes announced by the company failed to address the problems they raised. 
 Drug stocks were also weak. Pfizer fell 2.3 percent, or 59 cents, to $25.64.
 Austrian authorities have invalidated a patent covering Pfizer's cholesterol-lowering drug, Lipitor, according to a notice on the Bombay Stock Exchange. The decision applied only in Austria. 
 Trading was heavy, with 1.76 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, above the 1.46 billion daily average for last year. Decliners outnumbered advancers on the exchange by about 2 to 1, and by about 3 to 2 on the Nasdaq. 
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note gained 15/32, to a price of 9514/32. 
 The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dipped to 4.58 percent, from 4.64 percent on Monday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.793
High Rate: 2.650
Coupon Yield: 2.692
Low Rate: 2.610
Median Rate: 2.640
Total applied for: $43,807,834
Accepted: $19,869,274
Noncompetitive: $121,065

The four-week bills mature April 28, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph tracks securities for yesterday and one month ago. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (86%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); MINING EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INFLATION (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (92%); JOY GLOBAL INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (51%); PFIZER INC (50%)

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (92%); CATR (PAR) (92%); CAT (SWX) (92%); CAT (NYSE) (92%); JOY (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (51%); PFZ (LSE) (50%); PFEB (BRU) (50%); PFE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); SIC3554 PAPER INDUSTRIES MACHINERY (58%); SIC3532 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT, EXCEPT OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (50%)

PERSON: MARK HURD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



644 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Museums; NEAR AND FAR; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: Sending the F.B.I. To Art School

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
THE widely publicized looting of cultural objects in Iraq alerted the Federal Bureau of Investigation that it could face a flood of artifacts sent to or smuggled into the United States, the world's largest art market. So last fall, the agency set up a national task force for the first time to focus on all art theft, not just Iraq's. The group, called the Art Crime Team, consists of eight agents working in different parts of the country investigating art theft of objects from American museums and residences; auction fraud; consignment fraud between galleries or dealers; and the rising number of international requests to find works stolen abroad or artifacts looted from archaeological sites. 
 On the latter subject, many objects arrive in the United States for sale, partly because the art market is unregulated, and also because of the huge number of willing buyers who may not understand, or ignore, why a paper trail tracking an object's origins is important. 
 Only about 5 percent of stolen or looted art objects are recovered, said Lynne Richardson, a museum specialist who manages the art theft program at F.B.I. headquarters in Washington. Even so, the agency's Philadelphia division has recovered $100 million in art in the last five years.
 ''Cultural property crime is the fourth-largest economic crime worldwide, following drugs, money laundering and illicit arms,'' said Robert K. Wittman, a special agent and senior investigator stationed in Philadelphia.
 In the last few years in the United States, the F.B.I. has recovered several stolen foreign works, including a painting of the Last Supper from a British church, antiquities from a Greek museum, antique scientific instruments from Italy and a treaty signed by Napoleon from France. 
 Recently, the F.B.I. made its first recovery in the United States of looted cultural properties from Iraq. In February, the agency returned to the Iraqi ambassador eight ancient cylinder seals that had been taken from an archaeological site near Babylon. Within the United States, looting of archaeological sites, especially those connected with the Civil War and American Indians, has more than doubled in recent years, according to National Park Service data.
 For decades, the F.B.I. branch offices handled stolen and looted art as property theft. When the agency set up the art crime team, it decided to train agents in art styles and conservation. In January, the eight agents received hands-on instruction from specialists at the University of Pennsylvania's Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology and conservationists at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Gallery experts also taught them how to track acquisitions at auctions to try to become familiar with art market trends. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: A CLUE -- An X-ray reveals a thumbprint that can verify authenticity. (Photo by Sabina Louise Pierce for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ART THEFT (92%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); PROPERTY CRIMES (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%); TRENDS (77%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (76%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); MONEY LAUNDERING (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (92%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



645 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Museums; OLD AND NEW; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: As Tut Time Approaches, His Hosts Are Working To Crank Up the Buzz

BYLINE: By KAREN ALEXANDER

 BODY:
THE last time treasures from the tomb of Egypt's King Tutankhamun were exhibited in the United States -- on a seven-city tour that lasted from 1976 to 1979 -- nearly eight million people came to gawk, breaking attendance records at every site. 
 This June, when the treasures return to this country in a show called ''Tutankhamun and the Golden Age of the Pharoahs,'' which kicks off a four-city tour at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, the exhibition will be buoyed by a slick team of marketers and entertainment promoters focused on recaptivating the public's enthusiasm -- and its pocketbooks. 
 The museum in Los Angeles will roll out the red carpet for a Hollywood-style opening-night gala. The city's Convention and Visitors Bureau has added King Tut to a celebrity-driven advertising campaign selling the city to visitors. Hotels are hawking travel packages tied to the exhibition, and the museum says its calendar is quickly filling up with glitzy after-hours private parties that will offer guests a chance to mingle among the show's priceless antiquities. 
 At the Museum of Art in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., the exhibition's second stop, plans are under way for late-night ''Midnight with the Mummy'' viewing hours and a flashy pyramid of lasers over the museum. The museum's executive director, Irvin M. Lippman, says he wants to paint the street outside the museum blue like the River Nile. ''I'll do it if I have to go out there with blue chalk myself,'' Mr. Lippman said. 
 It's no wonder. Though the mystique and past popularity of King Tut's artifacts all but guarantee a groundswell of enthusiasm, the show was so costly to produce that many potential viewing sites -- including the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York -- balked at hosting it because they would have been forced to charge patrons several times the normal admission price.
 The exhibition is being mounted for the Egyptian government by a high-stakes partnership of private companies: Anschutz Entertainment Group, which operates the Staples Center in Los Angeles and other sports and entertainment places; Arts and Exhibitions International, a museum show production company; and National Geographic. 
 The exact terms of the financial arrangement have not been disclosed, but the Egyptian government intends to make at least $10 million in each city the artifacts are shown. Tickets for the show at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, which went on sale to the public March 3, cost $25 for weekdays, and $30 for weekends (this includes general admission cost). General admission to the museum is usually $9.
 Tickets for the exhibition at the Museum of Art in Fort Lauderdale are not on sale yet, but the museum has been inundated with calls since the show was announced. Mr. Lippman says prices will be similar to those in Los Angeles. The other sites have not disclosed their prices. 
 The show will be on display in Los Angeles from June 16 to Nov. 15 and will then move to Fort Lauderdale in December. Next it will travel to the Field Museum in Chicago in May 2006. Its final stop will be the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia, from February to September 2007. 
 Born around 1343 B.C., Tutankhamun was a minor king who married his half-sister when he was 12 and is thought to have died when he was 19 years old. But he was buried with some very valuable stuff, and since the 1922 discovery of his tomb in Egypt's Valley of the Kings, Tut's mystique and reputation have taken on a life of their own. Promoters say the exhibition will include more than 50 objects from Tut's tomb and 70 objects from other royal graves of the 18th dynasty.
 The host museums need only look back to the 1970's Tut show to know that this new exhibition will be popular. But they hope that an expanded collection and a different context will create an even wider appeal. 
 ''It tells a broader story about other pharaohs and family members and the preceding kings,'' says Nancy Thomas, the curator of Egyptian art at the Los Angeles museum and its deputy director for art administration and collections. ''This time it's not just about one dramatic find. It's really about Egyptian archaeology .''
 The Los Angeles showing is expected to draw well over a million visitors, with an estimated economic impact of $147 million for the city, according to Mark Liberman, the president and chief executive of L.A. Inc., the Convention and Visitors Bureau. ''King Tut has huge brand recognition,'' Mr. Liberman said. ''I've never seen so much of a buzz about one exhibition.'' 
 Mr. Lippman of the Museum of Art in Fort Lauderdale agrees. The Tut showing there will coincide with the winter holiday season -- a peak time for tourism in the region. And though Mr. Lippman says he has little doubt that the show will be a financial success, he sees it as an opportunity for the museum to build its reputation -- and its membership rolls. 
 With two recent high-profile exhibitions -- ''Diana: A Celebration,'' featuring memorabilia from the estate of Princess Diana; and ''St. Peter and the Vatican,'' with objects from the Vatican -- the Museum of Art has tripled its membership in just over a year, to nearly 5,000 members. ''I think, conservatively, we could see it double again'' with the Tut exhibit, Mr. Lippman said.
 His optimism is based in part on his recollections of working at the National Gallery in Washington, when it hosted the Tut exhibition in 1975. It was Mr. Lippman's first job out of graduate school. Admission was free at the National Gallery, and the museum was totally unprepared for the volume of interest the show sparked, he said. 
 ''Even the concept of ticketing an exhibition was new,'' Mr. Lippman said. ''We went out and bought those rolls of novelty tickets you'd see at a carnival, and every hour had a different color.'' The popularity was unprecedented for a museum exhibition, and hopeful viewers grew frustrated with the long lines, Mr. Lippman said. ''Someone came up to the desk and put $100 bill down, and said 'Will this get me in to Tut?''' 
 Although he refused the offer, Mr. Lippman said the lesson was not lost on him. ''The residual value'' of a high-profile blockbuster will have a lasting impact on the museum, he predicts. ''We have to take advantage of that,'' Mr. Lippman said. ''We have a responsibility to do everything we can to make sure it's memorable.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: PITCHMAN -- Recalling the 70's fever that produced hits like Steve Martin's ''Funky Tut,'' museums hope to create the same excitement for the new show. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TICKET SALES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (75%); CELEBRITIES (74%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (73%); TOUR PACKAGES (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (87%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NILE RIVER (58%) UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



646 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: For M.T.A., the Search for Savings Has a Price

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority is spending money to save money. Buried amid hundreds of documents distributed yesterday during a series of meetings was an unusual contract: a three-month, $832,283 award to a consulting firm to help the authority become more efficient. 
 In other words, to help it spend less money.
 The authority's finance committee approved the deal, without discussion, on a voice vote. Of the panel's 15 members, only 7 showed up -- and 2 of them were rider advocates who are ineligible to vote. 
 The heavily indebted authority, which has raised fares and tolls twice in the last two years, is in the middle of a huge political effort that now seems to be bearing fruit: persuading Albany to provide $27.7 billion to repair, upgrade and expand the transit network through 2009. At the same time, however, politicians have accused the authority of not being sufficiently transparent or economical.
 The contract would pay the consulting firm, Booz Allen Hamilton, up to $732,283, with another $100,000 for contingencies, ''to improve internal cost efficiencies throughout the M.T.A., in both operating and administrative areas,'' according to a summary of the contract. 
 The firm, chosen over three competitors, will be paid an average of $167.14 an hour, per employee. Originally, the firm had sought a deal for $869,053, or $171.08 an hour, but the amount was ''negotiated down,'' according to the summary.
 The agency approved the efficiency contract -- a measure that many corporations have taken to cut long-term spending -- at the same time that it is pleading for more money from Albany, where the Legislature is poised to raise fees and taxes on its behalf.
 Transit advocates expressed muted criticism of the deal, aware that it is hardly unique.
 ''Most people scratch their heads and wonder why the M.T.A. isn't more efficient,'' said Gene Russianoff, a lawyer with the New York Public Interest Research Group and an advocate for subway riders. ''It looks like an awful lot of money to evaluate administrative savings. But the M.T.A. is an $8 billion agency, and there are undoubtedly savings to be found. I think there are a lot of people who would offer them free suggestions.''
 In presenting the deal for the committee's approval, the authority's chief financial officer, Stephen L. Kessler, read off a list of four contracts that required approval. He did not state why the services of Booz Allen Hamilton were necessary or provide an explanation of the rate.
 Board members should know how they are going to vote before the meetings and have done their research, said Ira M. Millstein, an authority on corporate governance at the law firm of Weil, Gotshal & Manges. ''That's part of their responsibility,'' he said. ''If they don't, the board meeting will become intolerably long. They should ask appropriate questions, if they have any.''
 Under the contract, which still must be approved by the full board, Booz Allen Hamilton is to advise the authority on how to consolidate financial and personnel work, information technology and procurement across its subsidiaries. The authority was created in 1968, but its component agencies -- including New York City Transit, the Long Island Rail Road and the Metro-North Railroad -- are largely independent. Each has its own headquarters, history and organizational culture.
 ''We believe we do a good job at saving and guarding our financial resources, but given the shape of the entire system, with all the different entities, we believe there are large-scale savings, millions of dollars' worth yearly, to be had,'' said Tom Kelly, a spokesman for the authority. ''We wanted someone with an impartial eye to come in and take a fresh look at it.''
 George Farrar, a spokesman for the consulting firm, which is based in McLean, Va., said he could not discuss the contract before it was signed. The chairman of the finance committee, Edward B. Dunn, a former managing director at Morgan Stanley who represents Gov. George E. Pataki on the board, did not return a telephone call seeking comment. 
 Even as the authority has been pushed to cut costs, its officials have been pleading with Albany for a new five-year capital program that would total $27.7 billion, including $17.2 billion for essential maintenance and repairs. 
 This week, leaders of the Legislature agreed on an alternate plan that includes $15.4 billion for core maintenance and security efforts and $2.35 billion for expansion projects like the Second Avenue subway and a Long Island Rail Road connection to Grand Central Terminal. As part of the plan, the Legislature proposed placing a $2.9 billion bond act before the state's voters; $1.4 billion would go toward transit and the rest toward state highways and bridges. 
 The plan, according to lawmakers, also involves raising two taxes in the downstate region served by the authority: a 0.05 percent mortgage recording tax increase, which would yield $50 million a year; and a 0.125 percent sales tax increase, which would produce $250 million a year. In addition, statewide motor vehicle fees would increase, generating $60 million a year. The plan also calls for the authority to sell $1.4 billion worth of assets. Mr. Pataki has not yet weighed in on the plan's details.
 The sales tax increase has already begun to draw criticism. 
 ''This move is regressive and once again forces working New Yorkers to pay for the M.T.A.'s missteps,'' the City Council speaker, Gifford Miller, who is running for mayor, said yesterday. ''Implementing a commuter tax would raise needed funds for the agency and more equitably distribute the burden of financing the system.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); POLITICS (74%); EXECUTIVES (66%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (63%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BOOZ ALLEN HAMILTON INC (85%); WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (58%)

TICKER: BAH (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



647 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Helped to Prepare the Way for Kyrgyzstan's Uprising

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: BISHKEK, Kyrgyzstan, March 29 

 BODY:
Shortly before Kyrgyzstan's recent parliamentary elections, an opposition newspaper ran photographs of a palatial home under construction for the country's deeply unpopular president, Askar Akayev, helping set off widespread outrage and a popular revolt in this poor Central Asian country.
 The newspaper was the recipient of United States government grants and was printed on an American government-financed printing press operated by Freedom House, an American organization that describes itself as ''a clear voice for democracy and freedom around the world.''
 In addition to the United States, several European countries -- Britain, the Netherlands and Norway among them -- have helped underwrite programs to develop democracy and civil society in this country. The effort played a crucial role in preparing the ground for the popular uprising that swept opposition politicians to power. 
 ''Of course, this infrastructure had an influence,'' said one European election observer. ''People now believe they have rights, and they were not scared because the repressive capacity of the system was weak.''
 After the collapse of the Soviet Union, Kyrgyzstan quickly became an aid magnet with the highest per-capita foreign assistance level of any Central Asian nation. Among the hundreds of millions of dollars that arrived came a large slice focused on building up civil society and democratic institutions.
 Most of that money came from the United States, which maintains the largest bilateral pro-democracy program in Kyrgyzstan because of the Freedom Support Act, passed by Congress in 1992 to help the former Soviet republics in their economic and democratic transitions. The money earmarked for democracy programs in Kyrgyzstan totaled about $12 million last year. 
 Hundreds of thousands more filter into pro-democracy programs in the country from other United States government-financed institutions like the National Endowment for Democracy. That does not include the money for the Freedom House printing press or Kyrgyz-language service of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, a pro-democracy broadcaster.
 ''It would have been absolutely impossible for this to have happened without that help,'' said Edil Baisolov, who leads a coalition of nongovernmental organizations, referring to the uprising last week. Mr. Baisolov's organization is financed by the United States government through the National Democratic Institute.
 American money helps finance civil society centers around the country where activists and citizens can meet, receive training, read independent newspapers and even watch CNN or surf the Internet in some. The N.D.I. alone operates 20 centers that provide news summaries in Russian, Kyrgyz and Uzbek.
 The United States sponsors the American University in Kyrgyzstan, whose stated mission is, in part, to promote the development of civil society, and pays for exchange programs that send students and non-governmental organization leaders to the United States. Kyrgyzstan's new prime minister, Kurmanbek Bakiyev, was one.
 All of that money and manpower gave the coalescing Kyrgyz opposition financing and moral support in recent years, as well as the infrastructure that allowed it to communicate its ideas to the Kyrgyz people.
 The growing civil society, meanwhile, began to have an awakening effect on the country's population just as Mr. Akayev and his family grew increasingly enamored of their power. ''If none of this had been here, the family would have remained in power and people probably would have remained passive, as they have in other Central Asian countries,'' said Jeffrey Lilley, who runs the local office of the International Republican Institute, a United States-financed pro-democracy organization.
 Alexander Kim, editor in chief of the opposition newspaper that printed the photos of the president's house, knows the problem well: in 1999, Mr. Akayev's son-in-law took control of Mr. Kim's first newspaper, which he and other employees had bought from the state during the privatizations earlier that decade.
 He says the son-in-law used fraudulent means, but he was never able to prove it in court. So Mr. Kim went on to found another newspaper, which went through several incarnations as the government tried to prevent him from publishing. He has been helped by about $70,000 in American government grants, mostly to pay for newsprint.
 The problem, though, was finding a press: they were all controlled by the government and refused to print newspapers from the opposition.
 Then Mike Stone, Freedom House's representative in Kyrgyzstan, arrived.
 ''When Freedom House opened their printing press, it was the end of our problems,'' Mr. Kim said.
 By January this year, Mr. Kim had begun national distribution of the newspaper, called MSN, for My Capital News. Opposition candidates in the parliamentary elections bought truckloads of the papers to distribute as campaign literature.
 Those Kyrgyz who did not read Russian or have access to the newspaper listened to summaries of its articles on Kyrgyz-language Radio Azattyk, the local United States-government financed franchise of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty.
 Other independent media carried the opposition's debates. Talk shows, like ''Our Times,'' produced in part with United States government grants, were broadcast over the country's few independent television stations, including Osh TV in the south, where the protests that led to Mr. Akayev's ouster began. Osh TV expanded its reach with equipment paid for by the State Department.
 ''The result is that the society became politicized, they were informed,'' Mr. Kim said. ''The role of the NGO's and independent media were crucial factors in the revolution.''
 As corruption grew worse, the country's nongovernmental organizations began speaking out, and Mr. Akayev grew wary of the foreign pro-democracy assistance he had long allowed.
 The published pictures of his house outraged him. Mr. Stone, who runs the printing press, was summoned to the Foreign Ministry and berated. 
 A week later, just before the press began printing a 200,000-copy special issue of MSN, the power at the press went out. Radio Liberty was also taken off the air, ostensibly because the government was putting its frequency up for auction.
 Mr. Akayev began suggesting that the West was engaged in a conspiracy to destabilize the country. A crudely forged document, made to look like an internal report by the American ambassador, Stephen Young, began circulating among local news organizations. It cast American-financed pro-democracy activities as part of an American conspiracy. ''Our primary goal,'' the document read, ''is to increase pressure upon Akaev (sic) to make him resign ahead of schedule after the parliamentary elections.''
 But Mr. Akayev, who had begun his presidential career as an advocate of democracy, did not go further.
 The American Embassy sent Freedom House two generators the day after the power went out, allowing the press to print nearly all of the 200,000 copies of MSN's special issue. The power was restored on March 8, and Mr. Kim's newspaper became one of the primary sources of information for the mobilizing opposition.
 MSN informed people in the north of the unrest in the south. The newspaper also played a critical role in disseminating word of when and where protesters should gather.
 ''There was fertile soil here, and the Western community planted some seeds,'' said one Western official. ''I'm hoping these events of the past week will be one of those moments when you see the fruits of your labors.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kyrgyz women working Monday at a printing press in Bishkek that is financed by the U.S. government and operated by Freedom House, an American organization. An opposition newspaper has been using the press. (Photo by Yoray Liberman/Getty Images, for The New York Times)Map of Kyrgyzstan highlighting Bishek: Bishkek received millions in foreign aid after the Soviet collapse.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); ENDOWMENTS (76%); ELECTION MONITORING (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); SPONSORSHIP (66%); NEWS BRIEFS (60%) Politics and Government; United States International Relations; News and News Media; Public Opinion; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: FREEDOM HOUSE (83%)

PERSON: KURMANBEK BAKIYEV (78%) Askar Akayev; Craig S Smith; Askar A (Pres) Akayev; Kurmanbek (Prime Min) Bakiyev; Craig S Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); KYRGYZSTAN (97%); CENTRAL ASIA (93%); ASIA (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); EUROPE (92%); NORWAY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Kyrgyzstan; Norway; Netherlands; Great Britain; Kyrgyzstan; Kyrgyzstan

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



648 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 4; Museums; THE BUSINESS SIDE; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Not Every Opening Is a Hit

BYLINE: By BERNARD STAMLER

 BODY:
THE idea offers great appeal to museums that are eager to enlarge their exhibition space and obtain recognition. Build a sexy new wing, the thinking goes -- preferably designed by a famous architect -- or an entirely new building. The crowds will come.
 But will they? Notwithstanding the ''Bilbao effect'' -- named for the city where a Frank Gehry-designed branch of the Guggenheim Museum has been drawing attention since its 1997 debut -- a number of recent museum expansions and openings have found their share of problems. 
 Take the dramatic Santiago Calatrava wing at the Milwaukee Art Museum, which opened in 2001, but did not attract the number of visitors it had at first projected. Though the director, David Gordon, said that he hoped things were on track for the current fiscal year, the museum ran a small operating deficit last year, recently made ''minor'' staff cutbacks and still owes about $25 million resulting from the building, Mr. Gordon said, with commitments of about $22 million.
 Then there are big museums like the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and the Cleveland Museum of Art, both of which are proceeding with ambitious expansion plans after first scaling them back, in the latter case primarily because of enormous increases in construction costs, said Katharine Lee Reid, the museum director. In May 2003, the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art in Hartford postponed a $120 million expansion designed by the Dutch group UN Studio, mainly for financial reasons. The museum now plans to develop a 55,000-square-foot building across the street.
 Finally, smaller institutions like the Bellevue Arts Museum in Bellevue, Wash., and the City Museum of Washington, D.C., inaugurated new buildings, but then were forced to close because of low attendance. They plan to restructure and reopen the museums even though they, like the others, remain subject to sobering economic conditions.
 Although the economy is surely better than it was during the dire post-dot-com, post-Sept. 11 days, ''museums are still dramatically challenged,'' said Edward H. Able, president of the American Association of Museums in Washington. ''Funding at state and local levels is still a big problem, and the stock market has still not come back the way we would like it to,'' he said.
 That fact continues to adversely affect the size of foundation grants, endowments and third-party gifts. 
 That does not mean that no major museum expansions have gone forward. For example, both the Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Indian in Washington and the greatly enlarged Museum of Modern Art in New York opened last fall, garnering enormous media and public attention in the process. But it is still too soon to know whether these will be successful from a business viewpoint, hoopla notwithstanding.
 Certainly, museum officials are cautious.
 For example, a Smithsonian spokeswoman, Linda St. Thomas, said that attendance projections of four million visitors annually ''will probably be met'' by the Indian museum. The museum, which does not charge admission, counted just over one million visitors during the five months between its opening in late September and the end of February, but is expecting far more during the spring and summer months. And revenues from shops and a cafe, dependent on traffic, are already ''above expectations,'' she said. 
 Unmet predictions about revenues and endowments are the principal problems that haunt many museums bent on expansion, in addition to unrealistic assessments of future expenses, according to Thomas B. Harris, a planning consultant who works with many museums, giving lectures on expansion and offering financial advice.
 That problem was the case at the Bellevue Arts Museum, which began as a street fair for crafts and morphed into a modest museum in a shopping center, then into a larger, state of the art building focused on contemporary art, said Michael Monroe, its executive director. 
 Perhaps that was not surprising, given the number of high-tech industries in the region, but it was not in keeping with the museum's original mission. By the time the $23 million museum opened in 2001, the economy had soured and the exhibitions no longer ''resonated with the public,'' said Mr. Monroe, who arrived in 2004, one year after the deficit-ridden museum closed.
 His task, as he sees it, is to ''rebrand'' the museum around crafts and reopen. The current business plan requires enough money to cover several months of operating expenses before opening. Mr. Monroe said that he hoped this amount, a few million dollars, could be raised by the end of this spring.
 In Washington, the City Museum, which closed in November, is planning to raise more money and broaden its appeal from a focus on the history of the capital to a more universal outlook, according to Dr. Thornell K. Page, a co-chairman of the board of the Historical Society of Washington, which operated it until its closing.
 The museum attracted only a fraction of the six-figure annual attendance it had predicted would come when it opened in 2003. That led to a downward spiral.
 ''Once you find yourself short of money, it forces you to fall short of your vision,'' Dr. Page said.
 Besides relying on private sources, Dr. Page and the museum's other trustees recently requested a subsidy of at least $1 million from the city of Washington to open the museum again. It is not clear whether the city will comply, but it is the kind of request that can scare local officials to death.
 In Tampa, for example, the city picked up the financial slack after an aquarium got off to a rocky start a few years ago, while it also had to assume the debt service on a private commercial project. As a result, city authorities are holding a tight rein on a proposed new building of the Tampa Museum of Art, by the architect Rafael Vinoly, to go up on city-owned land.
 Although Tampa has agreed to supply some $30 million toward building the project, as well as $2 million annually toward operating expenses, officials have asked for and received millions of dollars' worth of personal guarantees from museum trustees to cover any deficits during the first several years of the new building's operation. The city has also demanded that J.P. Morgan Chase & Company, the museum's lender, remove it as a guarantor of the construction loan. The bank recently agreed, but there were other details to work out before a final city council vote on the project, at month's end, according to the City Attorney David Smith.
 ''It doesn't make sense to build a museum if you can't cover a potential shortfall,'' Mr. Smith said.
 But can an excess of caution be counterproductive?
 ''In the world of the arts, you are always pushing the envelope and taking risks,'' said Mr. Gordon of the Milwaukee Art Museum. ''I'm not saying you shouldn't pay attention to finances. But you can frighten yourself so much that you do nothing.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); NATIVE AMERICANS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WADSWORTH ATHENEUM MUSEUM OF ART (54%)

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



649 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: A Break With Style, Not With Strategy

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 29 

 BODY:
Hewlett-Packard once went for flamboyance and style with Carleton S. Fiorina, the chairwoman and chief executive who was fired in February. 
 On Tuesday, the company chose to return to its traditional low-key management approach in naming Mark V. Hurd, the little-known president and chief executive of NCR, a maker of computers and automated teller machines, to succeed Ms. Fiorina. 
 The appointment of Mr. Hurd, who led a turnaround at NCR through operational improvements and cost-cutting, underscores the Hewlett-Packard board's commitment to a growth strategy led by an expansion into consumer electronics. 
 Wall Street was enthusiastic about the choice of Mr. Hurd, 48, as a steadying influence to lead Hewlett-Packard, which experienced disappointing profits in the last four years. Its shares rose $1.99, or 10 percent, to close at $21.78 on Tuesday, though a formal announcement of the appointment was not made until after the markets closed. 
 The chairwoman of Hewlett-Packard, Patricia C. Dunn, said that the appointment of Mr. Hurd was a strong statement that the company did not intend to unravel its merger with Compaq or sell off other major pieces of its business.
 Rather, Mr. Hurd is seen as an executive who can bring discipline and order to the diverse portfolio of businesses that includes personal computers, corporate servers, printers, cameras, software and corporate services. In dismissing Ms. Fiorina, the board said it was not interested in changing its strategy of offering a full range of digital products to consumers and businesses. Ms. Fiorina, who was considered a high-profile marketing wizard, was unable to increase the company's profitability despite its $19 billion acquisition of Compaq in 2002.
 ''H.P.'s directors chose wisely,'' said C.K. Prahalad, who is a member of the NCR board and a professor at the University of Michigan business school. Mr. Hurd, who spent 25 years at NCR, has deep knowledge in the details of running a business and is a good motivator of people, Mr. Prahalad said.
 The challenges Mr. Hurd now faces are substantial. Hewlett-Packard, based in Palo Alto, Calif., is in fierce competition with I.B.M. in the market for corporate information technology services. It is also in a bruising fight with Dell Computer in the PC market and increasingly in the printing business, one that Hewlett-Packard has long dominated.
 ''There is a lot of strategic challenge here, and there are lots of moving parts,'' said George Colony, president of Forrester Research, a computer industry consulting and market research firm based in Cambridge, Mass.
 Ms. Dunn said the board believed that the company had the right mix of businesses and had chosen Mr. Hurd precisely because it believed he was the best candidate to carry out the company's strategy.
 ''We were looking for someone who could run these businesses,'' she said. ''Our strategy is to execute, and Mark is very strong and execution-oriented.''
 Ms. Dunn, who led a three-member screening committee with the directors Jay Keyworth and Thomas Perkins, said the selection process had taken seven weeks.
 The company initially considered a large number of candidates with the assistance of Russell Reynolds, a New York-based executive recruiting company, she said. After that initial selection, the board committee then talked to dozens of potential candidates. The entire board interviewed a recommended ''set of finalists,'' she said.
 Even though NCR is a much smaller company than Hewlett-Packard, she said one factor in Mr. Hurd's favor was his experience with a mix of businesses in some ways similar to those of Hewlett-Packard's. 
 ''It turns out that NCR does have a retail business,'' Ms. Dunn said. ''Though NCR is much smaller in revenue than H.P., it is not much different in complexity.''
 Several executives, including Ms. Dunn, said that Mr. Hurd would be a strong match with the company's traditional culture, which has been both collaborative and low key.
 ''He's down to earth and he's a roll-up-your sleeves type,'' Ms. Dunn said, ''and he's a driver.''
 The choice of Mr. Hurd is considered by many as a way to ease the internal crisis that preceded Ms. Fiorina's ouster. 
 Ms. Fiorina arrived at Hewlett-Packard in 1999 and was the architect of the merger with Compaq. She presided over cost-cutting and a structural overhaul, and pushed revenue to $80 billion in 2004 from $47.2 billion in 1998, but was never able to generate the kind of profit needed to please Wall Street investors.
 Under Ms. Fiorina, Hewlett-Packard shares peaked in August 2000 at $55.98 before declining to $21.39 at the time of her departure last month.
 Late last year, as it became increasingly obvious that the Compaq merger would not generate significant financial growth, the board pressed her to give up some control and to bring in a chief operating officer. When Ms. Fiorina resisted the challenges to her authority, it precipitated a confrontation and she was forced to step down.
 A number of analysts said that despite the challenges facing the company, the competitive situation was not impossible if the company was well run.
 ''There is tremendous upside for somebody able to come in and focus on operations,'' said T. Michael Nevens, the former director of the McKinsey & Company practice in Silicon Valley. ''What they need is someone who is able to make hard choices on businesses and people and where to invest.''
 Whether Mr. Hurd is able to turn around Hewlett-Packard, he will receive a handsome compensation package. 
 The details of his package, which were filed on Tuesday with the Securities and Exchange Commission, include a base salary of $1.4 million in addition to bonuses of up to $2.8 million for meeting performance goals. 
 Other incentives, including 700,000 stock options, raise the value of his compensation package to more than $12 million. He will also be compensated for income forfeited upon leaving NCR, with the amount between $15.4 million and $21.9 million.


GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph: ''A Wall Street Favorite''After Mark V. Hurd, right, became chief executive of NCR, the company's results improved and its stock price rose steadily.Graph tracks NCR'S stock price and NCR'S net income since 2001. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 NCR Reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); MERGERS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (56%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Computers and the Internet; Biographical Information; Appointments and Executive Changes; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (91%); NCR CORP (86%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Hewlett-Packard Co

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (91%); NCR (NYSE) (86%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (86%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (86%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: MARK HURD (92%) John Markoff; Carleton S Fiorina; Mark Hurd; Patricia C Dunn

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



650 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Star's Accuser Had Troubles In Home Life, Witness Says

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

DATELINE: SANTA MARIA, Calif., March 29 

 BODY:
The man who set in motion the meeting between Michael Jackson and the boy he is accused of molesting testified on Tuesday that the boy's mother was not a scam artist as the defense contends but a woman who had in fact turned down a blank check from a Samaritan.
 The man, Jamie Masada, the owner of the Laugh Factory comedy club on the Sunset Strip in Los Angeles, said that after the boy, who is recovering from cancer, appeared in a televised documentary holding Mr. Jackson's hand in 2003, Mr. Masada relayed an offer from an unidentified person who said he would provide the family ''as much money as you want.'' 
 The mother, Mr. Masada recalled, said to him: ''No, tell him all I need is a friend. Prayers, but no money.''
 It was a spirited day of testimony from a spunky man who came to the United States at the age of 14 from Iran and built a comedy empire.
 Mr. Masada, known in Los Angeles for his charity, met the boy in 1999 at a comedy camp he sponsored for disadvantaged children. When the boy fell ill with cancer in 2000, Mr. Masada put the him in touch with Mr. Jackson at the boy's request. He did so, he said, in exchange for the sick boy's promise to eat.
 In his testimony at Mr. Jackson's sexual abuse trial here, Mr. Masada pulled back the curtains on a troubled family, revealing a shabby life of faded furniture. He said that the family was broke, and that the boy's unemployed father often hit him up for gasoline and rent money.
 ''I just gave it to him because I want to,'' Mr. Masada said. ''The poor guy needed money.'' 
 There was a disturbing side to the father, he said. It appeared to Mr. Masada that the father bullied his son into saying that the comedian George Lopez had stolen $350 from the boy. Mr. Masada said he wrote the father a check to make the problem go away.
 On other occasions, he noticed that the accuser's mother had bruises on her face and neck that she tried to hide with makeup. The defense contended in opening statements that the mother was a grifter who had lied about her husband's heavy hands during their divorce proceedings.
 In 2003, after the documentary ignited a firestorm and Mr. Jackson was preparing a rebuttal tape that included glowing testimonials from the family, Mr. Masada said he received a hysterical call from the mother.
 ''She was crying from Neverland,'' Mr. Masada recalled. He said she told him, ''They're holding me here and my kid against my will.''
 Later in the day, the defense got a favorable bit of testimony from Cynthia Bell, the flight attendant on a trip from Miami to Santa Barbara in March 2003 during which, prosecutors contend, Mr. Jackson got the boy drunk on wine before licking his head while he was asleep.
 Ms. Bell, who said she disguised Mr. Jackson's wine in a Diet Coke can, as was his preference, said she never saw Mr. Jackson share the drink with the boy. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawyers for Michael Jackson, Brian Oxman, left, Susan Yu and Thomas A. Mesereau Jr. yesterday at the courthouse in Santa Maria, Calif. A flight attendant provided the defense with a bit of favorable testimony. (Photo by Phil Klein/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (90%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); WITNESSES (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); FAMILY LAW (74%); CHILDREN (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); CANCER (70%); CONTUSIONS (64%); FACIAL INJURIES (50%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (50%) Sex Crimes; Child Abuse and Neglect 

PERSON: MICHAEL JACKSON (89%); GEORGE LOPEZ (76%) Charlie Leduff; Michael Jackson; Brian Oxman; Susan Yu; Thomas A Jr Mesereau; Jamie Masada

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005



651 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: CarMax Cuts Outlook

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
CarMax, the No. 2 U.S. seller of used cars, said yeterday that fiscal first-quarter earnings might be less than analysts' estimates as advertising spending and interest rates rise. 
 Net income will be 35 cents to 38 cents a share in the quarter ending next month, CarMax said.
 The company, based in Glen Allen, Va., had been expected to earn 38 cents a share, the average estimate of 11 analysts polled by Thomson Financial. CarMax earned 33 cents a year earlier. 
 CarMax said first-quarter and full-year profit growth were being curbed in part by higher marketing expenses. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (87%); INTEREST RATES (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (85%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (85%); POLLS & SURVEYS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CARMAX INC (90%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%)

TICKER: KMX (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS441120 USED CAR DEALERS (90%); SIC5521 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (USED ONLY) (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005



652 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: His Big Break Canceled, Comic Adapts 

BYLINE: By PETER KEEPNEWS

 BODY:
If you're the Last Comic Standing but no one sees you stand, do you make a splash?
 Alonzo Bodden has been searching for the answer since October. So far, it appears to be a qualified yes.
 Mr. Bodden, 42, who begins a four-night headlining engagement at Carolines on Broadway tonight, is a former jet mechanic from St. Albans, Queens. He became a full-time stand-up comedian 12 years ago because, as he explains it, he was getting big laughs when he conducted training sessions, and ''I thought it would be more fun to be an unemployed comedian than an unemployed aircraft mechanic.'' 
 He was, in fact, an employed comedian in Los Angeles but far from a national name last summer when he was seen on ''Last Comic Standing,'' the NBC series that aimed to do for little-known comedians what ''American Idol'' does for unknown singers, with a touch of ''Big Brother'' thrown into the mix. He finished second; when the show was brought back in the fall, he finished first, but not until after NBC had taken the series off the air.
 ''Last Comic Standing'' selected 10 comedians through a nationwide talent search, put them together in a typical reality-show house and threw various challenges at them: telling jokes in a Laundromat, entertaining a roomful of very young children. Each hourlong episode ended with a face-off between two stand-ups in front of an audience, which voted one off the show. In the final weeks, viewers voted by phone and on the Internet. 
 In its first two seasons as a summer show, ''Last Comic Standing'' averaged eight million viewers a week, according to Nielsen Media Research, or about one-third of what ''American Idol'' has drawn this year. Although less than spectacular, the ratings were good enough for NBC, which rushed a third season onto the fall schedule, just three weeks after the summer season had ended.
 With no time to conduct another talent search, the producers changed the format to a stand-up contest between the comedians of Seasons 1 and 2. Viewership dropped by two million, and NBC canceled the show a week before it was scheduled to end. The final episode, in which Mr. Bodden was named the winner, was seen only on Comedy Central, which had been rerunning episodes. It was watched by about 750,000 people: decent numbers for Comedy Central, but hardly star-making.
 So it is not surprising that Mr. Bodden is less than a star. (This might have been the case even if NBC had broadcast his triumph: neither Dat Phan, the neophyte who was the surprise winner of Season 1, nor John Heffron, the seasoned road comic who won Season 2, has achieved breakthrough success.) But he is also more than just another hard-working comic. 
 He admits that ''it would have been a lot better for me had everyone known I won'' because ''then I wouldn't have to keep responding to people saying to me, 'You should have won.''' Still, millions of people did watch him every week for a while, and as a result he is working more than he ever has, for a lot more money. He also received $250,000 for winning, which he acknowledges means that he ''can't be too mad at NBC.''
 Mr. Bodden (pronounced BEAU-den) said in a recent telephone interview from his home in Los Angeles that before last summer, ''I was what we call a working headliner: I was closing clubs, but people didn't necessarily know who I was.'' Now, he continued, ''places are selling out, and they're coming to see me because they know who I am.''
 That ''introduction to America,'' Mr. Bodden said, is what makes ''Last Comic Standing'' comparable to ''American Idol,'' regardless of the numbers. What makes the two shows different, he added, is that ''we have to do our own material. We can't tell Eddie Murphy's jokes and they say, 'Hey, he's good!'''
 There are other differences. If you win on ''American Idol,'' you may not become a bona fide idol, but you get a recording contract. Victory on ''Last Comic Standing'' offered considerably less.
 Mr. Bodden was given a one-year development deal with NBC, as a result not of winning Season 3 but of doing well in Season 2. So far nothing has come of that arrangement. 
 Still, things are moving forward. He has taped a half-hour stand-up special, which will be shown June 24 on Comedy Central. He has appeared on the ''Tonight'' show, although Jay Leno does not have nearly the influence on comedians' careers that Johnny Carson did.
 But Mr. Bodden has made an impression. Well over six feet tall, muscular and shaven-headed, with a voice deep enough to qualify him as the James Earl Jones of stand-up, he commands a stage. His delivery, conversational and quiet but with an angry edge, and his original take on well-worn subjects like race, sex and politics also helped set him apart from his ''Last Comic Standing'' rivals, as did the fact that he worked week after week to come up with new material.
 Virginia Heffernan, writing in The Times about the second season of ''Last Comic Standing,'' called Mr. Bodden ''consistently brilliant'' and praised his ''unerring, almost frightening'' wit. Caroline Hirsch, the founder and owner of Carolines on Broadway, said, ''In watching the show it was obvious that Alonzo had that 'thing' that sets certain comics apart from others.'' 
 His future as a comic is by no means clear, but Mr. Bodden professes not to be too concerned. If his NBC deal yields nothing, which seems likely, he says he will take the sitcom ideas the network rejected and pitch them elsewhere. He has had small roles in the films ''Bringing Down the House'' and ''The Girl Next Door,'' and would like to do more movies and perhaps even a talk show. Because of his work on ''Last Comic Standing,'' he said, some casting directors now see him as more than just another ''black comic-slash-actor,'' although others still see him as ''not hard-core enough.'' 
 ''See, St. Albans, when I was growing up, was the suburbs,'' he said. ''At some point rappers turned it into the 'hood, but I missed that; I was busy mowing the lawn.'' 
 In the meantime, Mr. Bodden says, he is happy to continue doing stand-up: ''I'm not focused on anything in particular. Whatever comes up, whatever opportunity comes up and I get to do it, that's what I want to do next.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Last Comic Standing'' went off the air before Alonzo Bodden won. (Photo by Ann Johansson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (88%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); CHILDREN (50%) Comedy and Humor; Television

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%); NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (81%)

PERSON: Alonzo Bodden; Peter Keepnews

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005



653 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; IN THE STUDIO WITH KEVIN O'BRIEN; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Tickling Silk Fibers With a New Set of Tools

BYLINE: By DEBORAH BALDWIN

 BODY:
WHEN Louis Comfort Tiffany built his dream estate on Long Island, he was so obsessed with the furnishings he did everything short of inventing the glue gun. For the dining room chairs he chose French velvet, dying it in a deep-blue-and-ivory pattern that echoed wisteria growing nearby. 
 The house is long gone, but the Metropolitan Museum of Art plans to bring the dining room back to life for an exhibition next year, using photographs, salvaged fragments and the skills of a Philadelphia fabric designer, inventor and entrepreneur named Kevin O'Brien.
 Mr. O'Brien, 46, has been making unusual fabrics for more than a decade, attracting couturiers like Zac Posen; celebrities like Whoopi Goldberg (who bought a sofa in Mr. O'Brien's printed velvet and recently came back for matching curtains); and stores like Saks, which is carrying his spring line of linen, silk and velvet pillows. 
 The assignment from the Met fell into place after a curator, Alice C. Frelinghuysen, noticed a burnt-velvet scarf around a colleague's shoulders. ''I said that would be it,'' she recalled. ''It looks like he's the perfect person.'' 
 With his Art Nouveau aesthetic and a quirky cottage-industry working style, Mr. O'Brien seems to have stepped out of Tiffany's era in more ways than one. At a time when most fabrics pour out of computer-driven mills, his hand-fashioned fabrics offer the furnishings equivalent of slow-cooked cuisine. ''You're getting something very nearly unique,'' said Joyce Storey, a historian of print design, an alternative to the ''run of the mill, everybody's doing orange sort of thing.'' 
 Mr. O'Brien's tools are a small assembly line and a labor-intensive formula of his own invention. ''I am interested in the process and technique and machinery that results in a beautiful thing,'' he said, sitting on a floral cotton velvet of his own design at a brasserie in Philadelphia. The velvet had been dyed on the wrong side, giving it an antiqued look: the fabric equivalent of distressed wood. Mr. O'Brien, trained as an architect and an artist, was surrounded by other evidence of his handiwork, including an aluminum and stained-glass chandelier, a room divider reminiscent of Whistler and an arched ceiling lined with trompe l'oeil tile.
 Sandy-haired, soft-spoken and dressed in a lumpy hand-knit sweater that his wife, Myoshin Thurman, bought on eBay, Mr. O'Brien said he was drawn to fabric design about 14 years ago when he learned how well velvet takes color. ''It's the richest look you can get,'' he said. ''Almost like a painting.''
 He began by making scarves, selling them to stores like Barneys New York and then to museum shops, including the Met's. The business grew -- stymied only temporarily by the pashmina invasion of the late 90's -- and today the Kevin O'Brien Studio (www.kevinobrienstudio.com) fills two floors of a former hat factory in the Old Town section of Philadelphia.
 It forms a natural link between the area's industrial past and artsy present. To warm a room at Fork, a high-end restaurant in a rough-hewn building nearby, the interior designer Marguerite Rodgers upholstered chairs with Mr. O'Brien's velvet and had him paint an abstract canvas on one wall in sunset colors. The hand-wrought touches communicate artisanal as quickly as the menu. 
 The studio, presided over by a cat, Commander (named after Mr. O'Brien's father, who designed submarines), evokes the cottage factories that made this city a textile center before the Civil War. ''It takes 10 steps, and then something beautiful emerges,'' Mr. O'Brien said, referring to sketches, hand-cut screens, and in some cases a chemical bath to burn patterns into silk and rayon velvet. Next comes a shower of dyes. 
 From a distance his velvets (about $140 a yard) look similar to digitally driven designs that cost much less. Up close, however, Mr. O'Brien's shimmer. Christopher Hyland, the high-end fabric dealer in the D&D Building in Manhattan, said Mr. O'Brien offers an antidote to modernism's ''pared-down, abrupt'' aesthetic. ''We're coming out of an era,'' he noted. ''Mercifully.'' 
 Many patterns are abstract, though some are based on nature -- vines, flowers, monkeys -- evoking Fortuny and William Morris. The studio also makes printed linen and burnt velvet in crisp geometrics. 
 Their popularity reflects a general boom in surface design, said Sigrid Wortmann Weltge, an emeritus professor of art and design history at Philadelphia University and a collector of O'Brien's scarves. ''He is an innovative person and that is reflected in his fabrics,'' she said. 
 New York stores with his wares include ABC Carpet & Home, which commissioned a winter-season bed set from Mr. O'Brien and carries his pillows, made by piecing together squares of burnt velvet and satin ($175 to $250). ''What's appealing, aside from the beautiful colors, is the organic nature of his designs,'' said Paul Denoly, a former buyer at Saks who stocked Mr. O'Brien's throws and more recently commissioned pillows for www.anthropologie.com. 
 Mr. O'Brien employs eight people, including two recent design school graduates, and several Seussian inventions, including a light table fashioned out of a file cabinet. A handmade dyeing machine -- festooned with garden hoses and powered by an air compressor -- swings from a gurney, spraying colors onto fabric stretched like canvas.
 Some days the contraption works better than others. 
 ''Maybe it would be better if the fabric moved instead of the dye,'' Mr. O'Brien mused as if for the first time one day after the compressor wheezed to a halt. 
 He allows that he wouldn't mind an infusion of capital to upgrade his equipment but has mixed feelings about a recent overture from J.B. Martin, a century-old textile giant with offices in New York and the last cotton velvet mill in the United States. The company wants to license Kevin O'Brien designs and mass produce them at a new factory, just outside Mexico City. 
 The global economy may also deliver a less expected dividend. Mr. O'Brien's New York representative, Beverly Fitzsimmons, took his velvets and satins to Paris this month.
 ''This is the time to export,'' she said, referring to the weak dollar. ''And I say it comes from an exotic place,'' she added wryly. ''Philadelphia.''






GRAPHIC: Photos: NEW-FASHIONED TWISTS -- Kevin O'Brien gives velvet a custom look with help from an inventive spray gun, above. Left, his table linens and canvas mural at Fork
 below, his burnt velvet and satin pillows. (Photographs by David Graham for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FABRICS (90%); NATURAL FIBERS (90%); HISTORY (76%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); FASHION DESIGNERS (75%); RESTAURANTS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005



654 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Highest Offer, or Not? The Choice Is Complex

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN and CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Over four decades, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority has faced down crippling subway strikes, riders infuriated by fare increases, tumultuous labor negotiations and complex sales of property like the Coliseum on Columbus Circle, where the Time Warner Center now stands.
 But arguably no other issue has thrust the authority into so emotional and politicized a dispute as the debate over the future of the West Side railyards.
 As the authority's board prepared to approve the sale of development rights to the 13-acre property to the Jets to build a football stadium, several observers who are not involved in the dispute said yesterday that the board was in a difficult, perhaps impossible, situation. 
 The board is legally the custodian of the transit network in New York City and its suburbs, but precisely what that mandate means is unclear. Should the board simply accept the highest offer? Or may it consider other factors, like redevelopment of the Far West Side and the good will of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the stadium's most prominent champion? 
 ''Fundamentally, a public authority must be guided by its legislative mandate and its charter, but in general, it will be permitted to take a broad account of the public interest,'' Harvey J. Goldschmid, a Columbia University law professor, said in an interview. ''The decision-making process includes more than profitability; it may also take account of public need.''
 Professor Goldschmid, who is on leave while he serves as a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission, reviewed the board's practices in the mid-1980's at its request. He emphasized that he did not hold a view in the current dispute. 
 In two private briefing sessions on Tuesday, members expressed varying degrees of certainty about the decision before them.
 According to people who were at the briefings, Edward A. Vrooman, of Putnam County, asked about the board's potential liability in a civil lawsuit, while Mark Page, the mayor's budget director, maintained that a major transit project -- the proposed extension of the No. 7 subway line -- would be possible only if the Jets' offer were accepted. 
 William J. Ronan, who was the first chairman of the authority and was also chairman of its predecessor, the Metropolitan Commuter Transportation Authority, said members should consider both the economic impact of the sale and the deal's effect on the region.
 ''The dollar value is very important, because of the value of the properties the M.T.A. inherited,'' said Dr. Ronan, who served from 1965 to 1974. ''The use of those moneys for the improvement of the transit system was very important, but it should be related to what is the best interests of the region.''
 Two other members, however, suggested that the board did not have tremendous latitude in interpreting its role. Peter E. Stangl, the authority's chairman from 1991 to 1995, said the authority's interests were distinct from those of the city and the state. 
 ''There may be cases where they can fulfill their responsibility and at the same time take actions that benefit the state or the city in ways that are not directly related to the M.T.A.,'' he said. ''But first and foremost, they have a fiduciary responsibility to the M.T.A. and to the customers of the system. Period.''
 Constantine Sidamon-Eristoff, a board member from 1974 to 1989, said that from the moment a board member is confirmed, the authority's interests must come first. ''At that point, your job is totally fiduciary -- to the agency, the purpose of that agency and the people it is serving,'' he said.
 The current board comprises 23 members, 6 of whom represent riders or labor unions and cannot vote. Most of the 13 members with full votes are lawyers or business people. The remaining four members, suburban representatives, collectively share one vote.
 The board is not representative of its ridership: there are only two women and two African-Americans on the board. One African-American member, James H. Harding Jr., who represents the governor, said last night that he was impressed that the Jets had offered a plan to involve minority- and women-owned businesses in the construction of the stadium. 
 The board rarely deliberates before voting. Members of its 10 committees often fail to show up. And the panel often follows the recommendations of its staff, asking few questions. 
 The authority's staff has not advised the board on how to vote. Nonetheless, the members received a faxed letter yesterday from Newmark & Company Real Estate, the firm retained to evaluate the bids.
 The letter, signed by the firm's president, James D. Kuhn, warned that a competing bid by Cablevision would ''cannibalize'' the value of the property east of 11th Avenue, which Mr. Kuhn estimated could be sold for ''close to a billion dollars.'' 
 Buffeted by criticism that it is inept or too cozy with politicians, the authority hired a corporate oversight expert, Ira M. Millstein, to study its practices. Last May, Gov. George E. Pataki named an advisory committee to examine all public authorities throughout the state. The result of those efforts remains to be seen.
 ''For all the criticism about public authorities, the reason politicians created them is to try to insulate them from the political winds,'' said Robert Bergen, the authority's general counsel from 1991 to 1995.
 He said of the board members: ''They're all human beings, and they all live in a political environment. I have to assume the decisions they make are in good faith.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); MAYORS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); LITIGATION (65%); BUDGETS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005



655 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: Using Clues From Libya To Study a Nuclear Mystery

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 30 

 BODY:
In the 15 months since Libya turned over to the United States nearly two tons of illicit uranium it had planned to use in atomic weapons, the radioactive material has become a pivotal, if mysterious, piece of evidence for investigators unraveling the nuclear black market.
 The Bush administration, joined by United Nations inspectors, now say the uranium most likely came from North Korea and helps to build a case that the North has exported dangerous nuclear material to Libya, and perhaps beyond. The officials drew on scientific tests, secret documents and interviews with key players in the black market, which taken together are potentially highly incriminating. But the evidence is also circumstantial.
 In interviews this week, administration officials and foreign diplomats disclosed that Libyan officials had also surrendered financial ledgers to the United States that provide a guide to the front companies involved in the nuclear network set up by Abdul Qadeer Khan, the Pakistani scientist. One large payment, American officials contend, was directed to North Korea, presumably for the uranium hexafluoride that arrived in Tripoli in 2001. But American and foreign officials who have seen the financial documents or been briefed on them say they do not prove a direct payment from Libya to the North Korean government. 
 In short, a year into the investigation of the case of the uranium cask, what is still missing, in the words of one senior American official, is ''the knockout piece of evidence.'' And that, in the minds of some critics, has left the Bush administration's case open to continuing doubt, particularly given the intelligence failures before the Iraq war.
 Those failures were addressed by a presidential commission that is due to report Thursday about the state of American intelligence on weapons of mass destruction. It is expected to be a searing indictment of assumptions made too quickly, of judgments never challenged. But its discussion of North Korea's and Iran's activities and the quality of intelligence in both countries was considered so delicate that the commission published the information only in a classified version of the report.
 Yet Iraq haunts the American effort to lay out its case on North Korea. In their often-contentious strategy sessions with China and South Korea, American officials have found themselves confronted by the question: why should Washington be trusted now?
 The tale of the uranium found in Libya is a case study of the trouble in filling in that map of the nuclear world. But it is also a very different story from what happened in Iraq, where there were bitter fights about whether Saddam Hussein was building dangerous stockpiles. Here, the questions are who made the uranium that was found in Libya, who sold it, and is there more?
 Evidence that North Korea, which has long sold conventional missiles, turned to trading in nuclear material initially sent a chill through Washington, Asia and the offices of the United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency. Instantly the case became a matter of intense focus for American intelligence officials and nuclear investigators.
 This account was pieced together from interviews with former and current American officials, allies whom they have briefed, and nuclear investigators from other nations. 
 Last week, for the first time in public, the White House declared that the uranium came from North Korea. ''The fact that nuclear material found its way out of North Korea to any destination is a source of serious concern for the United States,'' said Scott McClellan, the White House spokesman, in a letter to The Washington Post. The letter denied that American officials visiting Asia had focused on the North Korean connection to draw attention from the fact that Mr. Khan's network in Pakistan -- an American ally -- had acted as a middleman. 
 There are still many questions that allies and others have raised, and the administration has been unable or unwilling to fully answer. Jon B. Wolfsthal, a Korea expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, said the administration's public case was too weak for outsiders to react to with anything but doubt, given the intelligence failures over Iraq. ''This is clearly within the realm of possibility,'' he said of the uranium sale to Libya. ''But there's a big difference between that and saying it happened.'' 
 A European diplomat familiar with the I.A.E.A.'s investigation of the uranium shipment said a growing number of clues suggested that the source of the uranium was indeed North Korea. ''There is a North Korean connection here,'' he said. ''But what it is exactly is a mystery.''
 The story began in late 2003, when Libya surrendered its nuclear program and led American, British and I.A.E.A. officials to the cask of uranium. It was flown to Washington in early 2004. In February 2004, Malaysia published a report -- based on interviews with Buhari Sayed Abu Tahir , the chief operating officer of Mr. Khan's network -- that the uranium hexafluoride had been flown to Libya aboard a Pakistani airplane in 2001. The findings of the Malaysian report, and the involvement of the Khan network in the uranium shipment, were widely reported.
 News of a possible North Korean link to the shipment emerged last spring when European investigators, quoted in The New York Times, said their interviews with members of the Khan network had pointed them in that direction. 
 In late May, the International Atomic Energy Agency reported that Libya's receipt of 1.87 American tons of uranium hexafluoride was a down payment on an order for 20 metric tons, equivalent to 22 American tons. That amount was never delivered because Libya had abandoned its program, but experts said that was roughly enough to make 10 small nuclear warheads.
 Meanwhile, American officials also began to suspect North Korea was the source, partly because chemical traces on the outside of the cask indicated that it had been at the North's main nuclear site, Yongbyon. The United States had plutonium samples from that site. But as one American official said, ''proving the container had been there is different from proving that the uranium inside it'' also came from North Korea. 
 Joseph Cirincione, director of the nonproliferation project at the Carnegie Endowment, said the traces of plutonium might simply indicate that North Korea shipped an empty canister to Pakistan, and that it was filled there, or someplace else. ''If you look hard at these pillars, there are alternative explanations,'' he said. ''They don't disprove the government claims but they raise doubts about their certainty.''
 Similar questions in Washington touched off a months-long scientific study last year at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory to determine whether the uranium hexafluoride was truly of North Korean origin. The results of that study are classified, officials say. They are also short of definitive.
 American officials apparently did not have a sample of North Korean uranium to compare with the uranium from Libya. Instead, through a process of elimination, they ruled out Pakistan as a source and eventually concluded that there was no other logical answer. 
 Some experts have questioned that conclusion, saying it is unclear whether North Korea made the uranium hexafluoride itself, or merely supplied the raw uranium to Pakistan, which then made the highly toxic chemical. It is well known that the North routinely makes a precursor known as uranium tetraflouride at a plant near Yongbyon. Federal experts said converting that to the final product was relatively simple. ''It's not a big step for North Korea to make uranium hexafluoride,'' said a nuclear scientist who regularly consults for intelligence agencies. 
 The Bush administration has charged that North Korea is secretly pursuing a uranium enrichment program. The Chinese have expressed their doubts, perhaps because they really do not believe the evidence, or perhaps to keep the lines of communication with North Korea open. And so far, American officials have not identified for their allies any facility in North Korea that they believe makes uranium hexafluoride.
 ''So if North Korea has a facility, does it really work?'' Mr. Cirincione asked. 
 More recently, United States officials have tried to follow the money trail. They argue that Libyan funds made it to companies or banks linked to North Korea. One foreign diplomat said I.A.E.A. investigators were digging through the same financial records that the United States had examined, and traced the money flow through money launderers to Khan front companies and ''various bank accounts all over the world.'' 
 But banking secrecy, he added, had impeded making firm links to North Korea despite ''a couple places pointing to the D.P.R.K.,'' or the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, but gave no further details.
 Asked if he thought the United States was exaggerating the financial tie between the shipment and North Korea, he said, ''It's not hyping.'' But he insisted the case was still circumstantial. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EVIDENCE (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); CASE STUDIES (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); INDICTMENTS (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%) Atomic Weapons; Uranium; United States International Relations; Arms Sales Abroad

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%) David E Sanger; William J Broad; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%) Libya; North Korea; Libya

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005



656 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Tyranny's Full Tank

BYLINE: By Marina Ottaway. 
Marina Ottaway is a senior associate in the Democracy and Rule of Law Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
THE skyrocketing price of oil in the last two years has translated into a projected 42 percent increase in net oil export revenue for OPEC countries. While the global economic impact of this jump remains unclear, it also threatens to have a perverse political impact: even as the Bush administration pushes the promotion of democracy in the Middle East and elsewhere, market forces have given oil-rich autocratic regimes new revenue with which to dispense patronage and buy off popular discontent.
 Oil and democracy do not mix easily in countries that depend highly on oil revenue. Among the 10 top oil exporters, only two (Mexico and Norway) are truly democratic and only three (Nigeria, Russia and Venezuela), have even limited elements of democracy. Of course, countries that do not export oil can also be undemocratic, but evidence shows that oil revenue flowing freely into government coffers has a particularly pernicious effect, encouraging corruption and lack of accountability and fostering systems based on patronage rather than popular representation. For countries that discover large amounts of oil before their economies become diversified and their regimes democratic, oil can easily become a curse. 
 Higher revenue will not eliminate all causes of social discontent in oil-producing countries or silence all demands for political change. For the younger generation in Iran chafing under the restrictions imposed by the clerics, or Saudi reformers seeking modernization, additional government spending will not decrease discontent. But for the impoverished populations of Venezuela or Nigeria, and perhaps in the future for the people of Iraq, increased government spending can foster acquiescence. 
 Oil prices will remain high for the foreseeable future, yielding more revenue to shore up authoritarian regimes and thus making transitions to democracy more difficult. It is imperative for the international community, led by the United States, to increase its so far timid efforts to curb the political and developmental harm that oil revenue causes in poor countries. 
 Some potentially far-reaching solutions are already in progress or on the table. In Chad, the World Bank has insisted that 72 percent of all dividends and royalties from fields developed with one of its loans be spent on health, education, rural development and other investments to fight poverty. It is still unclear whether such domestic and international supervision of spending will be effective. It is already clear that supervision will not be extended to the revenue from new fields being developed without World Bank loans. Less needy now that oil has started to flow, the Chad government is reasserting its independence.
 Other ambitious models, like the ''future generations'' trust fund set up by Norway to spread the benefits of oil over time, or the distribution of some oil revenue directly to citizens, as is done in Alaska, cannot work in autocratic countries with few other sources of revenue. They require strong, efficient and honest government, as well as enough tax revenue from other sources to pay for public services. They are unthinkable in corrupt, oil-dependent Nigeria, for example, or in an Iraq that needs to rebuild its shattered economy right now. 
 The most promising initiatives so far are those that seek to put in the hands of citizens more information about how much revenue their governments receive and how they spend it, so they can demand accountability. The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, started in 2002 with the support of the British government, helps governments, industry representatives and citizens' organizations collect and reconcile information on revenue from oil and other minerals. 
 But so far only four countries are involved -- Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan, Nigeria and Ghana. The initiative, furthermore, does not monitor how the money is spent. Major international organizations like Global Witness, Oxfam, Save the Children and Transparency International have begun a ''Publish What You Pay Campaign'' to pressure oil companies to disclose the payments they make to governments in resource-rich countries. 
 These initiatives, still too new to assess their degree of success, are steps in the right direction. But participation is voluntary and backing by some key players is weak -- the United States in particular opposes compulsory disclosure and has stayed aloof even from voluntary mechanisms. 
 The international community needs to push Western oil companies and recipient governments to disclose information and help citizens to use it to hold governments accountable. It also needs to secure the cooperation of state oil companies from countries like China and Malaysia, which have ignored demands for disclosure. The time to do so is now, when oil prices are high, and the sharp increase in producing countries' revenue could translate into real progress for poor countries if well used, or perpetuate the curse if it serves to shore up corrupt authoritarian governments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CARTELS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (68%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%)

PERSON: Marina Ottaway

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); CHAD (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005



657 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: When Preservation Equals Demolition

BYLINE: By BRADFORD McKEE

DATELINE: St. Louis 

 BODY:
FOR 108 years the neo-Classical style Century Building, with its 10-story marble facades accented by ornate friezes and pilasters, graced half a block in downtown St. Louis. 
 But after 15 years of fighting by local preservationists it was razed in February to make way for a garage. 
 The battle for the Century, with its familiar plot and cast of characters -- preservationists squaring off against developers and politicians -- resembled a typical preservation dispute. Yet it had an unusual twist: for the first time anyone involved can remember, the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the country's most powerful preservation group, sided with the wreckers. In fact the redevelopment project that led to the Century's demise was financed with the national trust's help. 
 Although the circumstances surrounding the Century are unusual, critics say the national trust, a private nonprofit organization with more than 200,000 members, has set a dangerous precedent. 
 For Carolyn Hewes Toft, the president of the Landmarks Association of St. Louis, which has become an improbable adversary of the trust, its position was a violation of its mission to preserve historic structures. Ms. Toft suggested that the national trust had lost its integrity and said that of all the demolitions she had witnessed, ''this loss is by far the most difficult to accept.''
 Officials at the national trust said that its part in the demolition reflects the changing role of preservation, which they said includes fighting urban sprawl and reviving entire downtown areas, as well as saving historic buildings and sites. 
 Increasingly, the national trust is ''using preservation as a tool for community revitalization,'' said Richard Moe, its president. Sacrificing the Century, he added, was in line with the trust's efforts to broker the renewal of historic but rundown neighborhoods like downtown St. Louis, even at the occasional expense of a treasured building. 
 But for many preservationists, like Michael Tomlan, the director of the graduate program in historic preservation at Cornell University, that price is too high. What the national trust did, Mr. Tomlan said, was wrong. ''It's morally and in any number of senses ethically inappropriate. It violates preservation's Hippocratic oath: if you can't be supportive, for gosh sakes shut up."
 Like the issues in most preservation battles, those surrounding the Century and downtown redevelopment here were complicated and played out over years as the parties jockeyed to influence the outcome. 
 The Century's fate was linked to the redevelopment of another building across the street, the Old Post Office, from the 1880's, which is the centerpiece of downtown renewal projects.
 In 2001, when national trust officials were asked to consult on the transfer of the Old Post Office from federal to state ownership, they at first backed saving the Century. Missouri lined up two developers to restore, manage and lease the building for 99 years. Two tenants, Webster University and the state appellate courts, had already signed on.
 But the tenants demanded parking within view of the Old Post Office for security reasons. The developers, Steven Stogel of the DFC Group and Mark Schnuck of the Desco Group, local companies, did not want to spend the money to build underground parking and insisted that the Century was the only nearby above-ground site big enough for 1,000 cars. City officials agreed. 
 Royce A. Yeater, the national trust's regional director for the Midwest, said he tried to persuade the developers and the city to consider alternative sites, but they were intransigent. "The minds were made up within the power structure," Mr. Yeater said in an interview. Mr. Stogel, the developer, said he studied all the alternatives offered, including an empty site directly north of the Old Post Office. ''We reluctantly determined that we had to provide parking on the Century site,'' he said.
 The national trust, making the restoration of the Old Post Office its priority, changed its position on the Century in January 2002 , swinging in favor of a garage on the site to ensure its continuing involvement with the project, Mr. Yeater said.
 Still, Mr. Yeater said, it was not an easy about-face for the national trust, which was founded by Congress in 1949 with a mandate to protect historic structures. 
 In a bid to stop or at least slow the demolition, the Landmarks Association of St. Louis filed four lawsuits challenging the project. And in October 2002, nine months after the national trust gave its nod to demolition, the Interior Department accepted the Landmarks Association's nomination of the Century to the National Register of Historic Places.
 The national trust's commitment to the Old Post Office project deepened in December 2002, when Mr. Stogel, the developer, asked it to help finance the renovation through the National Trust Community Investment Corporation, its relatively new for-profit subsidiary. 
 The investment corporation was formed in 2000 to encourage preservation projects with tax credits. Since 2003 the Treasury has allocated about $6 billion in so-called New Market tax credits to some 60 organizations, including the national trust, to be used as incentives for investors in depressed areas. So far the national trust's corporation has invested $111 million in these tax credits in 19 projects, including the Dia Arts Foundation in an abandoned factory in Beacon, N.Y., which received $6.5 million; and the Telegram Building in Portland, Ore., a historic newspaper building turned into a commercial complex, which received $2.6 million. For the Old Post Office, the trust agreed in 2003 to allocate an $8.7 million tax credit.
 None of the other projects the corporation has financed has generated controversy on the scale of the Century, said John Leith-Tetrault, the president of the investment corporation.
 ''We know you don't make money on controversial projects,'' Mr. Leith-Tetrault said. (Since 2003 the corporation has handed back $1.7 million in earnings to the national trust, after bearing the administrative costs of the tax-credit projects.)
 Under Treasury Department rules, the national trust's investment corporation can charge up to 15 percent of its investment value as an administrative fee, an arrangement that some critics regard as a potential conflict between the nonprofit national trust's mission and its profit-oriented subsidiary. But Mr. Leith-Tetrault said its typical fee is 5 percent to 8 percent.
 For the Century project the corporation charged the developers a fee of $438,750, Mr. Leith-Tetrault wrote in an e-mail message. That money will pay for the national trust to monitor the project as an investor for the seven-year life of the tax credits. Mr. Leith-Tetrault said that making a profit was not a major objective in this case. ''We feel very comfortable that the fee was more than reasonable,'' he said.
 Officials at the national trust say critics are overreacting when they accuse it of subsidizing the Century's demolition. Mr. Moe said the trust is only helping to finance the $45 million Old Post Office project. The garage, which will cost $32 million more, is being paid for through the Missouri Development Finance Board.
 Experts in historic preservation say the face-off in St. Louis highlights the difficult choices preservationists must make. ''Often, unfortunately, in preservation to get something you have to give up something else,'' said Richard Longstreth, a professor of American studies and head of the historic preservation program at George Washington University. But he said it is important to ask ''how much are you getting and how much are you losing?''
 Mr. Moe said national trust officials believe the greater good was served by restoring the Old Post Office and revitalizing the surrounding area. ''We're doing more of this kind of revitalization work than we did before,'' he said, ''but we haven't changed our fundamental values.'''


GRAPHIC: Photos: BATTLEGROUND -- The national trust, created to preserve historic structures, supported demolition of the Century Building in St. Louis, above and inset. (Photographs by Alan Brunettin
left, Stephanie S. Cordle for The New York Times
right, Associated Press/Winslow Townson)(pg. F1)
HELPING HAND -- Federal tax credits have been used to finance the restoration of landmarks like the Telegram Building in Portland, Ore. (Photo by Sally Painter)
WRECKED -- The Century Building, far left and left, graced downtown St. Louis until its demolition last month, left below. (Photographs by Rob Powers
right, Alan Brunettin)
 ART AID -- The national trust investment subsidiary gave $6.5 million to the Dia Arts Foundation, left, in Beacon, N.Y. (Photo by Richard Barnes)(pg. F9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); HISTORY (89%); CITIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); RENTAL PROPERTY (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (59%) MISSOURI, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005



658 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: Compete With Caution Against Past Employer

BYLINE: By EVE TAHMINCIOGLU

 BODY:
Howard Gray and Mark Browne, longtime friends who had worked a combined three decades at Pitney Bowes, the world's largest maker of postage meters and other mailing equipment, left the company three years ago to compete with their former employer. Mr. Gray, who was a district director for Pitney Bowes, and Mr. Browne, who was a sales representative, started Nexxpost in January 2002 in the basement of the Seattle home of Mr. Gray's parents. 
 The plan was to distribute postage meters and other equipment made by Pitney's rivals and snag some of its old customers with the promise of better maintenance help. They figured that because Pitney controlled 80 percent of the market, they could nibble around the edges. ''We had very low cost because we didn't have to pay rent,'' Mr. Gray said. ''We thought, being small, we could provide a better level of service and care more about our customers than Pitney could.''
 In the first month, Nexxpost's only sale was a $19 postage meter. But business rose steadily after that, and the company turned a profit on $1 million in its first year. To accommodate the growth, the two men held negotiations for the purchase of a 5,000-square-foot building in the historic Georgetown district of Seattle and began hiring other Pitney Bowes employees in the area. 
 Small as the company was, however, its efforts did not go unnoticed by Pitney Bowes, which is based in Stamford, Conn., and has 32,500 employees and annual sales of nearly $5 billion. In April 2003, it filed a lawsuit in King County Superior Court in Seattle against the two partners and the six employees they had hired away, contending that they had engaged in transgressions ranging from misappropriation of trade secrets to violating confidentiality agreements.
 ''They came out with guns blazing,'' Mr. Gray said. ''We spent $150,000 defending ourselves and everyone in the office as part of the suit. Most of us didn't even do depositions. They were just dragging it out, causing us pain.''
 Pitney Bowes declined to discuss the suit, but a spokeswoman, Marianne Fulgenzi, said that as a general practice the company ''invests a great deal of time and money in areas of developing our intellectual property, in marketing and training our sales force.''
 ''We must protect our investment, which also includes our customer lists, information about consumer preferences, as well as pricing.'' 
 All that, she added, ''has a significant competitive value.''
 ''When a former employee wants to challenge us, we take that breach very seriously and do what we need to do to protect it.''
 The legal battle that Mr. Gray and Mr. Browne unexpectedly found themselves fighting serves as a cautionary tale for managers at big corporations who might be thinking about striking out on their own in the same area of business. At the very least, legal specialists say, they should proceed with extreme vigilance.
 Gene Morrissy, a senior consultant for RHR International, a management consulting firm, said he was seeing more and more corporate employees leaving their jobs to start their own businesses for a host of reasons, from frustration with corporate bureaucracy to conflict with a boss to the growing availability of investment capital. Rather than venture into the unknown, he says, many understandably want to stay within their area of expertise.
 ''But many entrepreneurs I see often take this approach: ready, fire, aim -- and don't think through the legal implications,'' he said.
 He cited the case of four workers at a food-services company who started a business in competition with their former employer. The company's legal department went into overdrive, he said, sifting through garbage for any trace of evidence that the group had hatched the plan while still employed.
 ''The firm found information, including handwritten notes, documenting these guys were working on it even when they were still with the organization,'' he said. That gave it the legal ammunition to restrain them from running their business, he said, and it refused to hire them back.
 Companies appear to be getting tougher on copycat former staff members. ''We are certainly seeing a lot more of this type of litigation because when the economy gets tighter, companies are a little more protective,'' said Marc D. Katz, a labor and employment lawyer in the Dallas office of Jenkins & Gilchrist.
 The noncompete or confidentiality provisions that are used to discourage employees from starting similar businesses are typically written into the employment contracts they sign when they are hired. Although these agreements are negotiable, few job candidates question them, either because they fear jeopardizing their employment prospects or because they do not read the fine print, legal specialists say.
 Even so, such contracts are very difficult to enforce in many states and courts are likely to side with the employee unless the circumstances are egregious, Mr. Katz said. But that does not stop some companies from filing costly suits to enforce them, he said, whether to wear down their new rivals or to scare off other managers from following in their footsteps.
 Corporations have another legal recourse besides invoking a noncompete or confidentiality pledge. They can claim former employees stole trade secrets or maliciously sought to undermine the company they left. The strength of such allegations, Mr. Katz says, will hinge to a large extent on whether the employees were high level and entrusted with vital business information, whether the employees actually tried to take company files and information, and whether those materials constituted trade secrets or other confidential information.
 Mr. Gray and Mr. Browne thought they had done everything right before they embarked on their Nexxpost venture. They spent $5,000 on lawyers' fees to review their personnel files to make sure nothing precluded them from going ahead. They also asked the Pitney Bowes employees they were considering for jobs if anything in their files would restrain them from working for a competitor.
 It turned out two of the employees they hired did have noncompete provisions but had not realized they had signed them, Mr. Gray said.
 The Pitney Bowes suit minced no words. ''Defendants' misappropriation was undertaken as part of a scheme to misappropriate confidential Pitney Bowes' information and usurp Pitney Bowes' customer relationships,'' it said. ''Defendants have used confidential and proprietary Pitney Bowes information to target and solicit Pitney Bowes customers on behalf of Nexxpost.''
 Mr. Gray denies the claims in the suit, saying he and his partner built their customer list from the ground up with no help from information they had acquired in their days at Pitney Bowes. ''I worked for Pitney Bowes in Seattle for 17 years,'' he said. ''I had some good knowledge of the industry and a good understanding of what customers need. Just because you leave a company, they can't tell you not to hit a hammer.''
 Despite his denials and anger over the suit, Nexxpost reached a settlement in August 2003 because, he said, ''our legal fees at that point were about $35,000 to $40,000 a month. Going into trial our expenses were going to double.''
 While neither he nor Pitney Bowes would comment on the settlement figure, he says Nexxpost has been able to weather the expense. Today the firm has 25 employees and projects a 50 percent increase in revenue this year, to $6 million, from $4 million last year. Mr. Gray says it is highly profitable.
 What did the partners learn from their experience?
 Mr. Browne says if he decides to hire other Pitney Bowes employees, he will first send a letter asking the company if it has any objections. Mr. Gray says he has discovered that big corporations know how to play a lethal game of hardball. ''I learned that deep pockets could do anything,'' he said. ''Pitney's purpose was to put us out of business.''
 Pitney Bowes has sued other former employees, but Ms. Fulgenzi, the spokeswoman, would not comment on the number. And in response to claims the company was trying to derail competition, she would only say, ''The best competition is in having better products and service.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Browne, left, and Howard Gray encountered difficulty when they started Nexxpost, a competitor to their former employer, Pitney Bowes. (Photo by Annie Marie Musselman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); SALES FORCE (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); SALES MANAGEMENT (76%); SALES & SELLING (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); MISAPPROPRIATION (72%); SALES TRAINING (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (67%); LITIGATION (63%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PITNEY BOWES INC (90%)

TICKER: PBI (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005



659 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Social Security, Growth and Stock Returns

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 30 

 BODY:
In barnstorming the country over Social Security, administration officials predict that American economic growth will slow to an anemic rate of 1.9 percent as baby boomers reach retirement.
 Yet as they extol the rewards of letting people invest some of their payroll taxes in personal retirement accounts, President Bush and his allies assume that stock returns will be almost as high as ever, about 6.5 percent a year after inflation.
 ''For the life of me, I can't imagine why anybody would argue against young workers having the ability to invest and build a better retirement for their future,'' Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said Wednesday in a speech in Bozeman, Mont.
 A growing number of economists, however, including many who favor personal accounts, say Mr. Bush's assumptions are optimistic. 
 Many believe that stock returns will be lower than they have been in the past, closer to 5 percent than 6.5 percent, and that returns on a balanced mix of stocks and bonds will be much lower than that.
 ''Most economists would argue that, over a long period of time, there is a linkage between what the stock market will return and how well the economy does,'' said David Blitzer, chairman of the Standard & Poor's index committee, which oversees the S.&P. 500 stock index.
 The statistical battle is politically important. If investment returns are just one percentage point lower each year than predicted, a person would end up with 35 percent less money than she expected after 30 years of saving.
 Under Mr. Bush's plan, moreover, people would need to earn at least 3 percent a year after inflation just to make up for automatic cuts in traditional Social Security benefits.
 In a paper to be presented on Thursday at the Brookings Institution, three economists who are longtime critics of Mr. Bush argue that stock returns are likely to be about 4.5 percent if economic growth slows as much as the administration predicts.
 ''We find it arithmetically very difficult to construct scenarios in which asset returns are at their historic average values and real G.D.P. growth is markedly slowed,'' wrote the economists, Paul Krugman of Princeton University, whose Op-Ed columns in The New York Times have long been sharply critical of Mr. Bush's plan; J. Bradford DeLong of the University of California, Berkeley; and Dean Baker of the Center for Economic Policy and Research, a liberal research organization in Washington.
 To make the numbers work, the economists contended in their paper, domestic profits would have to grow far more rapidly than they have in the past, or American companies would have to become huge exporters of capital to faster-growing countries. At the moment, the United States is a huge net importer of foreign capital.
 Administration officials and many independent analysts disagree, saying the link between overall economic growth and investment returns is weak.
 But many Wall Street analysts warn that stock returns are likely to be significantly lower in the future for a separate reason: stock valuations are high relative to expected earnings, and they are likely to remain that way. 
 The S.&P. 500 index is currently valued at about 20 times earnings, which translates to an expected return of about 5 percent a year. The historical average is about 15 times earnings, or an expected return of more than 7 percent. 
 William C. Dudley, chief United States economist at Goldman Sachs, estimates that stock returns are likely to be about 5 percent in the future, because investors are accepting lower ''risk premiums.''
 Other experts agree. ''My view is that stocks really can't deliver the same returns in the future as in the past, unless we have a major decline in stock prices,'' said John Y. Campbell, a professor of economics at Harvard University and an adviser to the Social Security trustees on the issue in 2001. ''But what we see is valuations bouncing around 20 times earnings, which is higher than historical levels.''
 Two recent computer simulations, one by Robert J. Shiller at Yale University and one by the Congressional Budget Office, suggest that even historical stock returns are no guarantee against losing money.
 Under Mr. Bush's plan, workers would be allowed to divert up to 4 percent of their wages subject to payroll taxes to personal retirement accounts. But people would have to earn at least 3 percent a year after inflation to break even, because their traditional benefits would be reduced by the amount of their contributions, plus 3 percent a year in interest.
 To protect people from stock market volatility, the government would also offer a ''life cycle'' investment account that would gradually reduce the share of stocks relative to conservative Treasury bonds as they neared retirement.
 Mr. Shiller, using financial data going back to 1871, found that people who enrolled in life-cycle accounts would have lost money 32 percent of the time. The median annual return was 3.4 percent, barely above the break-even point in Mr. Bush's plan.
 The results highlighted the inherent trade-off: higher returns come with higher risks.
 The Congressional Budget Office recently ran similar computer simulations. Analysts there took historical stock returns and average volatilities and simulated stock returns for thousands of artificial 20-year periods. The result was that stocks earned less than Treasury bonds about 20 percent of the time.
 Stephen Goss, chief actuary for the Social Security program, defended the administration's assumptions.
 ''Keep in mind that we are trying to make projections over a very long time, 75 years,'' Mr. Goss said. ''I would suggest that 5 percent at the moment makes perfect sense. But if you buy at another time, when the price-earnings ratio is 10, you would expect a higher return over time.''
 Many experts agree that slower economic growth in the United States does not mean lower rates of return. Confronted with lower demand in the United States, companies can spend less money on expansion and more on dividends. Or they can invest more heavily in countries with faster-growing populations.
 ''Growth might slow in developed countries, but it's not clear to me that world growth is going to slow down at all,'' said Jeremy J. Siegel, a professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and a leading analyst of long-term stock trends. ''I think world growth will go up.'' 
 But White House officials may be revising their assumptions. N. Gregory Mankiw, who recently stepped down as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, said Mr. Bush's proposed break-even rate of 3 percent on personal accounts may be too high. The yield on inflation-protected Treasury bonds is about 2 percent.
 White House officials say they are open to proposals for changing the break-even point, which could raise the plan's cost, but Democratic lawmakers remain fundamentally opposed to Mr. Bush's plans.
 ''The basic arguments are over the extent to which people ought to be given more freedom over their risk and return choices,'' Mr. Mankiw said. ''Returns on the stock market may affect the choice people make, but the question of whether they should be given a choice is broader than the issue of returns.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 6, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about economic assumptions by the Bush administration on personal retirement accounts misstated the amount of payroll taxes people would be allowed to divert to them. It is up to 4 percentage points -- not 4 percent -- of the 6.2 percent of wages that workers now pay in payroll taxes. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chris Hilderbrant, right, joined a protest yesterday in Rochester against President Bush's plan for private Social Security accounts. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (85%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); LIBERALISM (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); EXPORT TRADE (61%) Social Security (US); United States Economy; Stocks and Bonds; Social Security (US)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (84%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005



660 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Woman Refused Abortion Before Killing, Official Says

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
A college graduate with a double major in psychology and economics, Emmanuel Pierre had never been in trouble with the law, his lawyer said yesterday at the start of his murder trial in State Supreme Court in Manhattan.
 Mr. Pierre, 26, the oldest of three children born to strict parents, was on his high school's honor roll and attended the State University of New York at Stony Brook. But on the night of June 19, 2002, prosecutors say, Mr. Pierre strangled his pregnant companion, 20-year-old Sandra Bonaventure, wrapped her body in a trash bag and dumped it on a Manhattan sidewalk. 
 He killed her, prosecutors said, because he did not want her to have his baby. He has been charged with second-degree murder and, if convicted, faces up to 25 years to life in prison. 
 In his opening statement, David Drucker, an assistant district attorney, said Mr. Pierre killed Ms. Bonaventure, ''not in spite of the fact she was pregnant, he did it because she was pregnant.'' DNA testing showed Mr. Pierre would have been the father of the baby, Mr. Drucker said.
 The prosecutor said that after the murder, Mr. Pierre and a fraternity brother, Joshua Cayenne, ''take this pregnant 20-year-old woman, this human being, and they treat her like a piece of garbage,'' dumping her body on 56th Street near the West Side Highway. 
 But Mr. Pierre contends that he never saw Ms. Bonaventure the night of her murder and that Mr. Cayenne is the real killer. 
 The relationship between Mr. Pierre and Ms. Bonaventure was troubled from the start, acquaintances said. They became involved as college students while Mr. Pierre was dating Ms. Bonaventure's roommate at SUNY-New Paltz. In testimony yesterday, two of Ms. Bonaventure's friends said they disliked Mr. Pierre because he was seeing both women.
 ''He was a ladies man, a player,'' Mr. Drucker said.
 Mr. Pierre tried to persuade Ms. Bonaventure to have an abortion, but she refused, Mr. Drucker said. She was last seen on June 19, when she left her foster mother's home in Mount Vernon to visit Mr. Pierre, the prosecutor said.
 It is unclear where Ms. Bonaventure was killed, but an autopsy revealed she had been choked. 
 After the killing, Mr. Pierre ''has a problem,'' Mr. Drucker said. ''What to do with the body?'' He said Mr. Pierre and Mr. Cayenne drove around the city until dawn, searching for a place to dispose of a plastic bag containing Ms. Bonaventure's body, settling on the spot on 56th Street on the Far West Side. 
 A homeless man called the police after he saw an elbow sticking from the bag several days after Ms. Bonaventure disappeared. 
 Mr. Pierre's lawyer, Edward Sapone, said that Ms. Bonaventure and Mr. Pierre never met that night as they had planned, but that she did encounter Mr. Cayenne, who killed her. 
 Mr. Cayenne gave her credit card to a friend and told him that he had killed her, Mr. Sapone said.
 Mr. Cayenne was charged with hindering the prosecution and other charges, but not with murder. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); ABORTION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (77%); CHILDREN (77%); FORENSICS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGAL PATERNITY (75%); AUTOPSIES (72%); FOSTER CARE (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); DNA (52%); DNA TESTING (52%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005



661 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Sweet Home Alabama for U.S. Team

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Birmingham, Ala. 

 BODY:
EDDIE JOHNSON lost the thousand-mile stare he wore Sunday at Azteca Stadium. He was back in the United States, even though at times it sounded as if Birmingham were the capital of Guatemala. And he began conducting himself like one of those hipper-dipper football halfbacks who used to gambol on this lawn.
 Being home was the operative theme last night as Johnson scored his eighth goal in eight games with the national soccer team, an amazing rate. He also set up Steve Ralston's goal in the 68th minute as the United States defeated Guatemala, 2-0, in a qualifying game for the 2006 World Cup in Germany. 
 Johnson, who turns 21 today, has been the huge and delightful surprise in the past year of American soccer. Nurtured in Major League Soccer, he is tall and rangy, fast and smart, and he gets better every game.
 Last night he took a feed from Landon Donovan, the true homebody on the United States squad, and he clanged a shot off the right post and into the left side of the net, deriving good fortune from the inanimate, as the best scorers seem to do. 
 After running out of steam in the 2-1 loss in Mexico City on Sunday, Johnson quieted the surprisingly large Guatemalan contingent with his goal in the 11th minute last night. Then he kept the Guatemalans occupied, showing knee fakes and hip fakes as he squirmed his way into the offensive zone, sometimes using his height (6 feet) for headers. 
 ''He and Brian Ching did a great job in holding the ball and bringing other players into the game,'' Manager Bruce Arena said. 
 Although he may have a future in Europe, Johnson still plays in Dallas. And Donovan is leaving Bayer Leverkusen, for which he has faltered twice, to come home to M.L.S., presumably to Los Angeles. 
 Many of the United States players have some soccer in their family history, but Johnson, from rural Florida, came to understand the world's favorite game while traveling overseas for a junior tournament, at 16.
 Johnson showed his quick mind and quick feet on Sunday in the forbidding conditions of Azteca. With the United States down by two goals, Donovan served Johnson a long ball on the right side.
 In this situation, most players -- even the wise old ones -- panic and unload a screamer, just to show their moxie. Instead, Johnson flicked the softest little pass to the left, to Donovan, who distributed the ball leftward to the left-footed Eddie Lewis, who banged it home.
 Johnson finished Sunday's game looking like a man who had been on the grill 15 minutes too long. 
 ''It took a lot out of me,'' he said Tuesday in the generous air of Alabama. ''That was a great test for me. It showed me where I need to be. You take the bad out of a game like that as well as the good.''
 Donovan took a lesson out of the Mexico game, too. He needs to play. He once wasted more than a year on the reserve squad with Leverkusen but then came of age in M.L.S. Last fall he went back to Leverkusen in an honorable attempt to fulfill his contract, but he apparently stunk up a Champions League game against Liverpool and was as hard on himself as the German news media were on him. This morning at the Home Depot Center outside Los Angeles, Donovan will announce that he is coming home to play for the Galaxy. 
 Anybody with cable television can see that M.L.S. is not the best league in the world, but it is producing world-class players and sending some, like DaMarcus Beasley, to the PSV Eindhovens of the world, in good financial deals for all concerned.
 Birmingham is not an M.L.S. city, but the United States Soccer Federation placed the game here for the lush field, the breathable air and, theoretically, a home-field advantage, far from centers of Latin American fans. Last night, the Guatemalan fans came from many distant states, honking horns, waving flags.
 ''It's a surprise,'' said Sunil Gulati, the executive vice president of the federation. As an economist, Gulati joked, he approved of the free-market choices that put the tickets in the hands of Guatemalans. 
 The late-arriving American fans took a while to warm up, but ''the good old boys took over,'' said Kasey Keller, the United States goalkeeper. 
 Arena could not use Beasley, who had to sit out with two yellow cards, and Arena did not use Claudio Reyna, who appeared fatigued Sunday after missing part of the season in England because of injuries. 
 After Donovan and Johnson gave them the lead, the Yanks used their athleticism to win the high balls. Keller made a point-blank save in the 66th minute, the United States came out of the game with 3 points, and Mexico merely drew in Panama. It's nice to be home, more or less. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (93%) ALABAMA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GUATEMALA (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); MEXICO (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005



662 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Japan: Industrial Output Falls

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Japan's industrial production showed the biggest decline in a year in February, led by decreases in electronic parts and machinery. Production fell a seasonally adjusted 2.1 percent from January, when it rose 2.5 percent, a report by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry said. Production of machinery and other capital goods fell 3.1 percent, the biggest drop since September, the report said. Production of electrical machinery fell 4.5 percent from the previous month; electronic parts and devices fell 1.6 percent. General machinery fell 1.7 percent. Local and overseas orders for Japanese-made machinery are falling because of slower demand in China and the United States, said Kazuo Mizuno, chief economist at Mitsubishi Securities in Tokyo. ''This suggests that capital spending won't be able to lead the economy,'' Mr. Mizuno said.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japan's Industrial Production from September to February. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); TRENDS (88%); DURABLE GOODS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%) Production; Economic Conditions and Trends

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%) JAPAN (94%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005



663 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Opening Campaign for Governor, Corzine Vows Ethics Reform

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY, March 30 

 BODY:
Pledging to use his business expertise to bring economic prosperity and higher ethical standards to New Jersey, Senator Jon S. Corzine formally began his campaign for governor on Wednesday.
 Appearing at raucous kickoff rallies at both ends of the state, Mr. Corzine said his proposal for an elected comptroller and stricter campaign finance regulations for state vendors would help deter rampant political corruption that has driven up the cost of government. 
 Mr. Corzine, former chief executive and co-chairman of Goldman Sachs, also said that his plan to overhaul the budget process, trim spending and better manage the state's assets would ease the tax burden on New Jersey residents and encourage businesses to create more jobs.
 Although he is a United States senator and the standard-bearer of the party that controls the New Jersey governor's office and its Legislature, Mr. Corzine cast himself as an outsider with the vision, management skills and independence to shake up the state's political culture.
 ''It is time for a leader who comes to state government from a different experience,'' Mr. Corzine said during an afternoon appearance at New Jersey City University here. ''Someone who is not encumbered by an old culture, historical entanglements and the status quo.''
 Although that event and an earlier one in Gloucester County were jammed with hundreds of exuberant supporters, Mr. Corzine's announcement was actually little more than a victory lap in his rise to the head of the state party. After spending $63 million of his fortune to win the Senate seat in 2000, he also gave millions to local Democratic organizations, an outpouring of generosity that helped clear the field of potential primary opponents. 
 Since August, when Gov. James E. McGreevey announced his resignation amid a sex scandal, Mr. Corzine has moved to consolidate that support. He became the de facto nominee when Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey announced he would not run.
 The unity among Democrats, and his own wealth give Mr. Corzine powerful weapons from now to November. He is also vying to become governor of a state where voters are substantially more permissive on social issues than much of the country. 
 Mr. Corzine, one of the Senate's most liberal members, said on Tuesday that his record of pushing for tougher environmental protections and against tax cuts for upper-income Americans was simply a matter of standing up for middle-class families.
 Douglas R. Forrester, one of seven Republicans seeking the nomination, said Mr. Corzine had no business calling himself a fiscal conservative because his Senate record was replete with votes in favor of higher spending and against some tax cuts.
 Campaign officials for Bret Schundler, the Republican who lost to Mr. McGreevey in 2001, said it was startling that Mr. Corzine's speech did not mention one of the most pressing issues facing New Jersey residents, property taxes.
 ''What greater evidence do you need that Jon Corzine's campaign isn't about solving problems for New Jersey, but instead about feeding his ego?'' said Mr. Schundler's strategist, Bill Pascoe.
 Mr. Corzine sad that he would wage a campaign that avoids harsh personal attacks and focus on issues that affect the everyday lives of residents. He said he would continue to fight for more federal aid for homeland security and to preserve funding for health care, veterans benefits, Amtrak subsidies and environmental protection.
 ''I am running for governor so I can lead our state in providing people of New Jersey value for their hard-earned tax dollars and respect for the values that hold us together,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Jon S. Corzine in Jersey City yesterday, announcing his candidacy for governor of New Jersey. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ETHICS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); FAMILY (73%); SCANDALS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); RESIGNATIONS (69%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); SEX SCANDALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005



664 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Council May Hold Up Trash Removal Plan

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
City Council members threatened yesterday to hold up the Bloomberg administration's plan for disposing of the city's trash, signaling that efforts to resolve the longstanding problem have once again come to a standstill.
 During a two-hour hearing held by the Sanitation and Solid Waste Management Committee, Council members cited concerns over the escalating costs of the plan and the reopening of a transfer station in a residential part of Manhattan. They said they could not approve the plan as proposed. 
 Kate Ascher, executive vice president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, testified that the new garbage plan was projected to increase the cost of trash disposal to $107 per ton, up from $75 per ton under the present system.
 She emphasized that the goal was not simply to adopt the cheapest plan but also to consider other factors, like limiting damage to the environment and ensuring that each borough is responsible for its own waste.
 Under the new plan, most of the trash would be compacted into special containers at marine or rail transfer stations in each of the five boroughs and then moved to landfills or incinerators out of state. In contrast, the current system loads the trash onto trucks that head directly to landfills or incinerators. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and other city officials have said that switching from trucks to barges and trains will improve traffic and air quality in the city. ''Getting a lot of the trucks off the street is a very big deal, and will that cost more money?'' Mr. Bloomberg said last week on his weekly radio program. ''Of course it will cost more money, but do you want to breathe worse air or spend less money?''
 But Councilmen David I. Weprin of Queens and Domenic M. Recchia Jr. of Brooklyn criticized administration officials yesterday for failing to release more specific cost estimates for various parts of the trash plan. ''Every time we get an update, it seems to go up and up,'' Mr. Weprin said.
 Ms. Ascher, who appeared with Sanitation Department officials, declined to provide many financial details during the hearing, saying that the city is still negotiating contracts. Bloomberg administration officials have also insisted that the overall cost estimate -- $107 per ton -- is sufficient for an accurate gauge. 
 Councilman Michael E. McMahon of Staten Island, the chairman of the sanitation committee, also took issue with the administration's efforts to reopen a marine transfer station at East 91st Street in Manhattan. Community groups have rallied against the reopening. They have a powerful ally in Council Speaker Gifford Miller, a candidate for mayor whose district includes the station.
 ''It's a good plan, but the 91st street station is a weak link that could delay or derail passage of the plan,'' said Mr. McMahon, citing both its location and the political problem of opposing Mr. Miller. 
 But Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for the mayor, said administration officials had not found an acceptable alternative in the borough. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LANDFILLS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITY LIFE (79%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (78%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (77%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (76%); AIR QUALITY (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005



665 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Big Insurer Acknowledges Some Improper Accounting
The insurance giant American International Group said that its accounting for several transactions, including a deal with a unit of Warren E. Buffett's company, was improper.
 A.I.G. said that according to its own internal review, several transactions ''appear to have been structured for the sole purpose or primary purpose of accomplishing a desired accounting effect.'' [Page A1.]

Saks Fifth Avenue May Be Sold
Saks, the department store company, has put its regional stores up for sale and may sell the Saks Fifth Avenue chain, executives close to the company said. [C2.]

CBS Names Head of New Digital Unit
The CBS unit of Viacom said that Larry Kramer, left, would become president of a new unit to be called CBS Digital. Mr. Kramer created the Web site that came to be called CBS MarketWatch, which was bought by Dow Jones last year. At CBS, he will oversee the content and sales of the network's Web sites. [C4.]

Gail Berman, who is taking over as president of Paramount Pictures, said she would approach her job with ''humility'' because of her inexperience with feature films. [C4.]

Safety of Ford Roofs Is Questioned
A new study and documents from several recent court cases raise questions about the safety of roofs on several Ford vehicles. [C4.]

Qwest Weighs Another MCI Bid
Qwest may announce as soon as today that it is once again raising its bid for MCI, said a person briefed on Qwest's deliberations. [C11.]

Judge Blocks Rule on Retirees
A federal district judge blocked a Bush administration rule that would have allowed employers to reduce or eliminate health benefits for retirees when they reach age 65. [A14.]

Risky Shares Find a Home in London
The Alternative Investment Market, the British stock exchange for small companies, has attracted a rush of new listings. But there are reasons to be cautious, analysts say. [C6.]

Hewlett Chief Will Take His Time
The new chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, Mark V. Hurd, told employees and investors that it was too soon to tell whether a turnaround plan would include a strategy shift, a breakup or layoffs. Mr. Hurd said he would not rule out anything that might be necessary to put the company back on track. [C11.]

Implant Makers Are Subpoenaed
Several large orthopedics manufacturers said they had received subpoenas from the Justice Department. [C12.]

Stocks Surge After G.D.P. Report
Wall Street had its best day of the year, helped by an economic report. The Dow rose 135.23 points, to 10,540.93, and the Nasdaq composite gained 31.79 points, to 2,005.67. [C12.]

Competing With Your Old Boss
Managers at big corporations who might want to strike out on their own in the same area of business should proceed with vigilance, legal specialists say. Small Business. [C7.]

Spring Forward and Open Wallet
Marketing from several well-known brands is tied to the switch to daylight saving time this weekend. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C4.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,540.93 up 135.23Nasdaq composite -- 2,005.67 up 31.7910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.55% down 0.03The euro -- $1.2923 up 0.0005The dollar -- 107.53 yen down 0.03Graph: ''TODAY'' shows Personal Income and Factory Orders from August to January.Personal IncomeFebruary figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.4%Factory OrdersFebruary figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.5%Graph tracks the daily closing price for Hewlett-Packard shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SUBPOENAS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); RETAILERS (76%); DEPARTMENT STORES (76%); WEB SITES (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); JUDGES (70%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (64%); ORTHOPEDICS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (57%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); VIACOM INC (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); VIA (NASDAQ) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (72%); MARK HURD (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005



666 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1796 words

HEADLINE: Stadium Brawl and Family Drama Vie for Spotlight

BYLINE: This article was reported by Richard Sandomir, Geraldine Fabrikant and Charles V. Bagli and written by Mr. Sandomir.

 BODY:
If Cablevision loses its bid to block the Jets from building a stadium above the railyards on the West Side of Manhattan, which is likely to happen today, its pugnacious chief executive, James L. Dolan, will be a double loser.
 Mr. Dolan will not only face the prospect of stiff new competition for Madison Square Garden, a Cablevision property, but he will also have made Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and much of the city's civic establishment his enemies. In addition, his unsuccessful campaign will have cost him a fortune, while he is still facing an internal battle at Cablevision with his father, Charles F. Dolan, who controls the company.
 If Cablevision does lose the bidding, it would not be in the nature of James, 49, to let the matter go. He is likely to keep fighting by suing the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, a move that could delay construction of the stadium. And that could endanger the 2009 completion date that would make the stadium eligible for the 2010 Super Bowl, and perhaps influence International Olympic Committee members voting July 6 on New York as the site of the 2012 Summer Games. 
 James Dolan's decision to go on the attack was very much in character. It is an instinct that he comes by honestly -- his father built his New York media empire by taking on rivals without seeming to care what anyone thought about it.
 And James Dolan insists he has no choice: opposing the Jets stadium, he has argued, is in the best interests of his shareholders and Madison Square Garden, which Cablevision has controlled since 1997. And if all that makes him a city pariah, so be it.
 James Dolan and Cablevision have been engaged in a number of recent fights, from the dispute in 2002 over not showing the YES Network on his cable systems to refusing last year to keep Marv Albert as the richly paid Knicks announcer for his criticisms of the losing team and then there is his present scrape with Time Warner, which is not carrying Cablevision's MSG Network and Fox Sports New York.
 This week, Cablevision opened another possible front. It is in advanced talks to join two private equity firms that are bidding for Adelphia Communications, adding a twist to an auction that had seemed certain to be won by Comcast and Time Warner.
 But the battle of Mr. Dolan's career began in January: he publicly rebuked his father Charles's vision of financing the Voom satellite service, which has already lost $600 million, with more of Cablevision's money -- a risky challenge that he characterized as the best choice for shareholders.
 James and Charles Dolan declined to be interviewed. But associates, who have done business with them for years, say they are not surprised to see Cablevision in its current predicament.
 ''Every action of Jim's that is aggressive can be characterized as trying to break out of Chuck's shadow,'' said Leo Hindery, a former Cablevision board member who now runs InterMedia Partners, an investment firm. ''But Chuck is quiet tough, and he's never liked fighting in a major public arena.'' 
 Mr. Hindery and Mr. Dolan, once friends, squabbled with increasing tension after the Yankees left MSG to form YES in late 2001. Mr. Dolan insisted that YES should be sold as a premium cable channel. Arbitrators settled the issue last year, largely in YES's favor.
 Mr. Hindery said a crucial loss to Cablevision was the death in 1999 of the vice chairman, Marc Lustgarten, who navigated the terrain between father and son. 
 At Mr. Lustgarten's funeral, Mr. Dolan, who would succeed Mr. Lustgarten as the chairman of the Garden, said, ''Somehow, my dad and I will have to figure out how to relate to each other, and without Marc that won't be easy.''
 Mr. Hindery, referring to James's stadium and family conflicts, asked, ''Give me a scenario where any of this would happen if Marc were alive?'' 
 Mr. Dolan, 49, believes the Jets' stadium plan imperils Madison Square Garden, which he dotes on as its chairman, but whose teams, the Knicks and Rangers, have spiraled into perennial losers under his watch.
 He has spent tens of millions of dollars to defeat the Jets' plan for a $2 billion stadium, with its $600 million public subsidy, facing off against Woody Johnson, owner of the Jets, and Mayor Bloomberg, a staunch Jets ally.
 The Jets have submitted a $720 million bid ($280 million in cash, the rest in offers from six developers to buy excess development rights) and Cablevision has offered $760 million ($410 million in cash with the rest paying for the concrete platform to build the proposed minicity upon). Under the Jets' plan, public money would pay for the platform.
 ''If Jim and Cablevision win,'' said Seth Abraham, a former president of the Garden and Radio City Entertainment, ''he will have seemingly blocked a stadium on the West Side of Manhattan, which has been the company's primary goal. Civic improvement was probably an afterthought.'' 
 If the Jets win, Mr. Abraham added, ''Jim and Cablevision will have gambled stacks of civic chips on red, and the wheel spun to green -- Jets green.'' 
 The rifts created by the stadium issue ended Mr. Dolan's cordial relationship with Mayor Bloomberg and his friendship with Mr. Johnson.
 In a telephone conversation with Mr. Johnson last November, described by people briefed on it as either confrontational or teasingly friendly, Mr. Dolan complained that a Jets' pro-stadium commercial that attacked him was mean-spirited. Mr. Dolan said the Jets should move to Queens; Mr. Johnson suggested that they both stop their ad campaigns. That, Mr. Dolan said, was not going to happen, and he would do what he had to do. They have not spoken since.
 But as recently as September 2001, Mr. Dolan and Mr. Johnson were chummy enough for the Jets owner to spend a day as a crew member on Mr. Dolan's 78-foot racing yacht Sagamore at the Maxi Cup in Sardinia, the island off Italy. Early the next year, Mr. Dolan discussed a plan with Mr. Johnson and L. Jay Cross, the Jets president, that would move the Garden to what was then deemed a ''tri-sport'' stadium on the West Side, suitable for football, hockey and basketball, circuses and other arena events. At the time, the plan was for Cablevision to run it.
 But in early 2003, Mr. Dolan abandoned that plan, and pushed ahead with a plan to renovate his arena. Later that year, he successfully persuaded Mr. Bloomberg and Gov. George E. Pataki to have the Jets drop the arena portion of the proposal, and began talking to lobbyists about fighting the football stadium, which would be used most of the year as a convention center.
 Cablevision's position stiffened last spring when Mr. Bloomberg revealed to Newsday a private conversation he had had with Mr. Dolan, in which he said that the Dolans were '' scared to death'' of competing with the stadium, and Mr. Dolan told him, ''You're killing me.'' The mayor said he told Mr. Dolan: ''Jimmy, I've been telling you all along. We're going to build this.''
 Ed Skyler, the mayor's press secretary, said Mr. Bloomberg had no regrets about divulging the conversation. ''The mayor was doing his part to inform the public on the company's motivations -- that it is acting as a monopoly and will stop at nothing to protect it,'' Mr. Skyler said. 
 ''The mayor started a company from scratch and built it into a worldwide power,'' Mr. Skyler added. ''Mr. Dolan's expertise appears to be doing the opposite. Why should New Yorkers trust him about the future of New York City's economy?''
 Mr. Hindery said the stadium quarrel followed a similar pattern as the YES dispute. Mr. Dolan's opposition, he said, prompted each side to attack the other in print and in television commercials, and led to YES's accusing Cablevision of exercising illegal monopoly power, the same accusation the Jets made in their suit against Cablevision.
 Mr. Dolan's temper has long been known by people within the company and by others who have done business with Cablevision.
 Former employees are reluctant to talk publicly about him, fearing retribution. In late 2002, Neil Smith, a former general manager of the Rangers, spoke to a sports trade magazine about his former boss. Forbes magazine reported that Mr. Dolan then withheld $150,000 owed Mr. Smith, who had built the team that won the Stanley Cup in 1994; he was paid after he testified for the Rangers in a player arbitration case.
 Mr. Dolan's epic fight with his father over Voom erupted in mid-January, barely three weeks before he lobbed in a $600 million bid on the West Side, trumping the Jets' initial $100 million bid and ending the Jets' one-on-one talks with the M.T.A.
 Mr. Dolan's action led his outraged father to use his control over Cablevision's voting stock to remove three board members aligned against him, replacing them with three industry veterans. The public rebuke ignited speculation that the elder Dolan would fire his rebellious son. The two have had a relationship in which they have disagreed over business issues, a former Cablevision executive said, and played pranks on each other. One such prank ended with James having workmen remove the door to his father's office and barricade it with wooden planks.
 While the Voom issue has been James's only public challenge to his father, several former employees have seen him yell at the Dolan patriarch in front of other company officials. ''Chuck just treats him like a child having a tantrum,'' said one employee who has seen the outbursts. In 1997, Mr. Dolan told a reporter that when he and his son disagree, ''I let him run up and down until he cools off.''
 The younger Dolan, who has been the chief executive for 10 years, appears to understand the quagmire he has stepped in, and jokingly suggested to a group of bankers this month that the conflict could be settled with a tennis match.
 ''If you want to play singles, we can play singles,'' he said. ''But if you want to play doubles, we can each get a lawyer.''
 On Tuesday, Charles Dolan told USA Today that he would be ''reluctant'' to fire his son because he is a strong board member and would miss him.
 But the Voom battle is not over, and will reach a climax when the board convenes after the expiration of a 30-day grace period, which ends today; during that time, Charles and his son Thomas sought more financing for the venture. 
 On Tuesday, the elder Mr. Dolan petitioned the Federal Communications Commission to block the $200 million deal Cablevision made to sell its satellite to EchoStar, the first step taken by the company after James Dolan led the board to scuttle Voom's continued financing. Charles Dolan told the F.C.C. that he was raising $400 million in cash and credit to prop up Voom.
 The father-son combat is, said Aryeh Bourkoff, an analyst at UBS Securities, ''50 percent King Lear and 50 percent Norman Lear.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: James L. Dolan, Cablevision chief, with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. The two are on opposing sides on a proposed stadium on the West Side of Manhattan. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Cablevision views the proposed stadium, which would be built over the M.T.A. railyards, as a threat to Madison Square Garden. (Photo by Bebeto Matthews/Associated Press)(pg. C7)Chart: ''Showtime''Cablevision will find out today whether its $760 million bid for the railyards on the far West Side of Manhattan is accepted.Cablevision2004 REVENUE, BY SEGMENT, IN BILLIONSTelecommunications: $3.12Rainbow National Programming: $1.09Madison Square Garden and other: $0.71Graph tracks the daily closing price for Cablevision shares since 2000.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets, company reports)(pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (87%); AUCTIONS (78%); OLYMPICS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); CABLE INDUSTRY (74%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (67%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (67%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%); TIME WARNER INC (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (84%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (55%)

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (64%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (64%)

PERSON: JAMES L DOLAN (93%); CHARLES DOLAN (89%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005



667 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13

News on Pope's Health Raises Fresh Alarms
Pope John Paul II is receiving liquid feedings through a tube that was inserted through his nose and winds down into his stomach, raising new alarms about the pope's deteriorating health and his ability to lead the Roman Catholic Church. A1

Report on Terrorism Threats
An internal Department of Homeland Security report that assesses terrorist organizations, their anticipated targets and preferred weapons concludes that the threat to the United States presented by North Korea and several other countries long described as ''state sponsors of terrorism'' is declining. A9

Wolfowitz Woos Europe
Paul D. Wolfowitz visited Europe as a supplicant for its good will, shedding his image as a unilateralist and entreating his hosts to approve him as the world's banker for the poor. A12

Gay Rally in Jerusalem Opposed
International gay leaders are planning a WorldPride festival and parade in Jerusalem, saying they want to make a statement about tolerance in the Holy City. Now a number of important leaders of three major faiths -- Christianity, Judaism and Islam -- are making a rare show of unity to try to stop the festival. A1

More Insurgent Attacks in Iraq
A marine was killed when his patrol struck a land mine nearBaghdad, while insurgents unleashed a string of attacks, the most deadly of them on pilgrims headed to Karbala for a Shiite religious festival. A11

Further Unrest in Kyrgyzstan
Kyrgyzstan faced new uncertainty after the ousted president withheld his formal resignation and the man who has emerged as the most powerful politician in the country quit the new government. The president, Askar Akayev, continued to jockey for some political influence, even as he acknowledged having lost real power. A13

NATIONAL A14-24

Age Discrimination Suits Need Not Prove Intent
The Supreme Court ruled that workers who sue their employers for age discrimination need not prove that the bias was intentional. A1

Bias by District Attorney Found
A federal jury ruled that New Orleans's first black district attorney discriminated against 43 whites when he fired them all at once upon taking office in 2003. A23

Bush Rebuked in Schiavo Case
A federal appeals court in Atlanta refused to reconsider the case of Terri Schiavo, with one of the judges sharply rebuking President Bush and Congress for acting ''in a manner demonstrably at odds with our founding fathers' blueprint.'' A14

Economists Differ With Bush
A growing number of economists part company with administration officials on forecasts that are fundamental to President Bush's plan to partly replace Social Security with personal retirement accounts. A23

Nearly halfway through his 60-day publicity tour on Social Security, President Bush declared that the idea of changing the retirement system was ''beginning to permeate'' the public consciousness but he insisted that he was still in the early stages of selling his proposals. A23

States Depend on Gambling
Gambling revenues have become a critical stream of income in a number of states, in some cases surpassing sources like the corporate income tax and helping states lower income or property taxes. A24

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Hitler's Psychological Profile
He was a feminine boy who as a young soldier was ''annoyingly subservient'' to officers and had nightmares which were ''very suggestive of homosexual panic,'' according to the U.S. government's first psychological profile of Hitler. A18

NEW YORK/REGION B1-9

M.T.A. Likely to Approve Jets' Bid for Railyards
The chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority supports the Jets' $720 million bid for the rights to build a stadium on the West Side of Manhattan, all but assuring that the authority will approve the sale this morning, according to two people who spoke with him. A1

Columbia Bias Charge Rejected
A faculty committee charged with investigating complaints that pro-Israel students were harassed by pro-Palestinian professors at Columbia University has found no evidence of anti-Semitism, but concludes that in one instance, a professor exceeded accepted bounds of behavior. A1

Tops in Long Commutes
New York and New Jersey stand apart from other states in the share of their residents who spend more than 90 minutes traveling to work each day, according to a report by the United States Census Bureau. B1

MetLife Tower Going Condo
The Metropolitan Life Insurance building is being sold for nearly $1 billion to a company that will convert its landmark 41-story tower into condominiums, executives announced. B1

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-7

OBITUARIES A25

ARTS E1-12

HOUSE & HOME F1-12

A Fight Among Preservationists
The demolition of a 108-year-old building in St. Louis has pitted local preservationists against The National Trust for Historic Preservation, the country's most powerful preservation group, which sided with the wreckers. F1

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

A.I.G. Acknowledges Errors
The insurance giant American International Group acknowledged that its accounting for a number of transactions, including a deal with a unit of Warren E. Buffett's company, was improper. The company said the impact of the accounting errors would lower its book value by $1.7 billion. A1

Saks to Sell Some Stores
Saks Inc., the department store company, has put its regional stores up for sale and has started to consider selling the Saks Fifth Avenue chain, executives said. C4

Cable Television, Like It or Not
Among the battlegrounds for customers in the pay television market are planned communities, where bulk subscriber deals can end up locking residents into compulsory cable plans. C1

More Than Just a Phone
Cellphone makers are viewing their products less as phones and more as platforms for services and features like digital music, 3-D video games and full Internet browsing. C9

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: A science-fiction army; hold that West Side decision; solid choice on trade; Verlyn Klinkenborg on mole sauce.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman and Maureen Dowd.

Bridge E4
TV Listings E11
Crossword E10
Weather B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (88%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (88%); FESTIVALS (88%); SOCIAL SECURITY (85%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (85%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (85%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (85%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); RESIGNATIONS (69%); APPROVALS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); VERDICTS (67%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (67%); LITIGATION (67%); JURY TRIALS (62%); APPEALS COURTS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); KYRGYZSTAN (92%); ISRAEL (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005



668 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Rice's Poker Hand

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
I've been to this play before. It always starts out like the coming-out season for debutantes in Palm Beach, and it always ends around a smoky poker table at Binions casino in Las Vegas.
 That is, every new secretary of state gets his or her moment on the world stage, where everyone ''oohs'' and ''ahs'' about how smart they are and what a ''dream team'' staff they have put together. As the first secretary of state to ever wear stiletto heels while reviewing troops, Condoleezza Rice has had a coming-out season second to none. 
 The savvy secretaries don't take any of this seriously. They know that eventually every secretary gets dealt a poker hand -- and you never know when it'll come or what sort of cards it'll contain: the 1973 Middle East war (Henry Kissinger), the rise of Mikhail Gorbachev (George Shultz), the fall of the Berlin Wall (James Baker), Kosovo (Madeleine Albright), Iraq (Colin Powell). And this poker hand is seven-card stud, no-limit Texas Hold 'Em. How well you play this high-stakes hand usually determines your legacy as secretary of state.
 Secretary Rice may get dealt other big hands, but there is one already waiting for her on the table. It is the four fragile democratizations unfolding in the Middle East: Iraq, Lebanon, Egypt and Palestine-Israel. Whether any of these come to fruition will certainly form a crucial part of the Rice legacy.
 For the last month or so, the Bush team has been doing a victory lap, taking credit for the outbreak of democracy in the Arab world. While I disagree with many Bush policies, I think the president does deserve credit for unleashing something very important in the politically moribund Arab East. Many of the necessary elements for democratization are now in place in Iraq (free and fair elections), in Lebanon (a Syrian withdrawal from Beirut), in Egypt (President Mubarak's commitment to multicandidate presidential elections) and in Gaza (an Israeli commitment to withdraw and Palestinian elections).
 But while the necessary conditions may now be in place, the sufficient conditions for democratization are still not present in any of these arenas. The Iraqi election was Jan. 30 and the Kurds, Shiites and Sunnis have still not agreed on a government, and the insurgency is still going strong. In Lebanon, the Cedar Revolution is now bogged down in a standoff between pro-Syrian and anti-Syrian Lebanese. In Egypt, it's not clear whether the upcoming presidential elections will be free -- with anyone who wants to run able to -- or fair -- with international observers. And in Israel-Palestine, Ariel Sharon's new settlement binge near Jerusalem underscores how difficult it will be to maintain momentum there.
 The common theme in all four areas is that the key parties are doing the right things for the wrong reasons. Democratization is everyone's second choice. First, the Kurds and Shiites want to consolidate their own power inside Iraq; the Lebanese opposition wants to get rid of the Syrians; the Egyptians want to get U.S. pressure off their backs; and the Israelis want to get rid of Gaza's huge Palestinian population.
 In history, a lot of good has started with people doing the right thing for the wrong reasons. But you will only have self-sustaining democratization in the Middle East if people start to do the right thing for the right reasons -- if the different sects in Iraq and Lebanon really do hammer out a shared vision and set of rules for their two countries. If Egypt recognizes it can't thrive without liberalizing its economy and political institutions. If Israelis and Palestinians really do come to terms with each other's nationalism. Otherwise, you'll have constant backsliding.
 Trying to make any one of these democracy projects self-sustaining -- and that is the test -- would be a career. Secretary Rice's challenge is to do all four at once. The burden is not hers alone. The parties themselves must carry the lion's share. But her responsibility is undeniable. Does she have the toughness to deal with Ariel Sharon? She has not shown it up to now. If the Bush team lets Mr. Sharon trade Gaza for the West Bank, the whole U.S. democratization agenda in the region will be set back. Does she have the moxie to restrain the Kurds and Shiites from overreaching in Iraq? The steel to deal with the Syrians? The will to move the Egyptians? Too soon to say. But this is the early poker hand she has been dealt, and how she plays it will determine, in part, whether the Bush team has uncorked democratization in the Middle East (I hope so) or set loose a new deadlock. (I hope not.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); POKER (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (85%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (85%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) United States International Relations; Freedom and Human Rights; Palestinians

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (90%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (52%); HOSNI MUBARAK (50%) Thomas L Friedman; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); LEBANON (94%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); EGYPT (94%); IRAQ (94%); SYRIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOSOVO (79%); GERMANY (79%) Middle East; Iraq; Lebanon; Egypt; Israel; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005



669 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Might Endorse Clinton? Concern in G.O.P.

BYLINE: By PATRICK D. HEALY

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 30 

 BODY:
The chairman of the state Republican Party expressed concern about the ''discipline and focus'' of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's re-election effort on Wednesday, citing Mr. Bloomberg's recent kind words for the party's bete noire, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.
 The Republican chairman, Stephen Minarik, said in an interview that he was not happy with Mr. Bloomberg's suggestion Monday night that he might endorse Mrs. Clinton's expected re-election campaign in 2006. Mr. Minarik said he was concerned that the mayor's comment on someone as divisive as Mrs. Clinton showed a lack of disciplined adherence to his political message promoting his record, which Mr. Minarik praised. 
 ''I'm not going to say I was happy about it,'' Mr. Minarik said in an interview on Wednesday, when asked about the mayor's remark. ''I was not happy. The mayor needs to show more discipline and focus and run squarely on his own record, which is strong.''
 ''All successful candidates need party discipline, so I was disappointed that the mayor decided to make that statement,'' Mr. Minarik added.
 Edward Skyler, a spokesman for the mayor, rejected the idea that Mr. Bloomberg was anything but disciplined and focused.
 ''If you ask the mayor a question, you'll get a straight answer,'' Mr. Skyler said. ''People shouldn't read too much into a potential endorsement in a race where no one knows who's running yet.''
 Mr. Skyler declined to predict whether Mr. Bloomberg might endorse Mrs. Clinton, who has not formally announced for re-election but said she plans to run.
 The G.O.P. chairman's reaction underscored a looming electoral challenge for Mr. Bloomberg: wooing new Republican supporters and keeping conservatives while praising Democrats like Mrs. Clinton.
 A former Democrat himself, who registered as a Republican to seek office in 2001, Mr. Bloomberg is running in a city where Democrats have a roughly five-to-one advantage in voter registration, and his political standing is delicate enough that he often straddles party lines, endorsing both President Bush and Senator Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat, for re-election in 2004.
 ''The mayor has made no bones about not being a true Republican, and in fact has referred to himself as a liberal,'' said Douglas A. Muzzio, a professor of public affairs at Baruch College. ''Minarik is pointing out a problem that the mayor could conceivably face -- holding onto Republicans in Staten Island, in parts of Queens, and support from Giuliani Democrats.''
 In an interview on NY1 News Monday night, Mr. Bloomberg was asked if he might endorse Senator Clinton, akin to his support for Mr. Schumer last year. The mayor would not rule out the possibility, saying both senators ''have worked very hard and very effectively for New York City and the state.'' He added, ''Party lines aren't anywhere's near as important to me as my responsibility to do what's right for the public.''
 The remark drew criticism on Tuesday from Thomas V. Ognibene, a Republican challenger to Mr. Bloomberg. Mr. Ognibene also called on Mr. Minarik to resign as party chairman for supporting a mayor who might endorse Mrs. Clinton. Mr. Minarik said in the interview that he had no intention of resigning.
 Mr. Minarik said that falling crime rates, lower unemployment and education gains amounted to a ''stellar record of achievement'' and endorsed Mr. Bloomberg as a ''smart and tough decisionmaker who deserves re-election.''
 But the party chairman was mindful of avoiding a Republican rift, as when former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York crossed party lines to endorse Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, a Democrat, in his 1994 race against George E. Pataki, who won.
 Mr. Minarik is also seeking a challenger to Mrs. Clinton.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen Minarik, chairman of the New York State Republican Party. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005

 
